

401 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: San Antonio Takes Lead in Land Conservation

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH. 
kgalbraith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
HONDO -- From Marcy G. Rothe's hillside home, she can see oaks and grasses and a creek bed spread out, looking much the same as when her grandfather first arrived here in the 1920s. In June, she sold a conservation easement on her land to the City of San Antonio to prevent development that would harm the aquifer below -- and also to ensure that her nearly 2,000 acres remained undisturbed for her descendants.
''What our grandfather began, we would like to see continue as a ranching heritage,'' she said, gazing at the landscape from her porch. 
Mrs. Rothe's easement is part of an aggressive and unusual program by San Antonio to protect its main source of water, the Edwards Aquifer, which covers a vast underground area. Three times in the last 11 years, city voters have approved the use of public money to buy land or easements over the aquifer.
So far, about $135 million has been spent to protect close to 97,000 acres. More easements will be bought starting this fall, with the help of $90 million in additional money that voters handily approved in November, despite the tough economic conditions.
Virtually no other city in Texas, except green-minded Austin, has committed substantial money toward land conservation, environmentalists say. That is partly because few big cities rely so heavily on a single aquifer. Dallas, for example, gets its water mainly from reservoirs, and Houston draws from a combination of surface and underground sources.
In the Austin area, public money has helped preserve nearly 45,000 acres, said Valarie Bristol, president of the Travis Audubon Society. The aim is to protect endangered species like the golden-cheeked warbler and to preserve the Austin part of the Edwards Aquifer, including Barton Springs.
The focus of the San Antonio program has changed over the years. In 2000, when voters approved the first batch of aquifer-conservation money (which is financed by one-eighth of a cent from the city sales tax), the city used it to buy land in Bexar County, which includes San Antonio, and turn it into public natural areas. But as land prices rose and officials looked toward conserving land farther away, the city decided to focus less on purchasing land outright and more on buying easements in the aquifer's ''recharge zone,'' which includes several surrounding counties.
Mrs. Rothe's property, for example, is in Medina County and is roughly 50 miles from San Antonio. So far, according to Kristyl Smith, who until recently served as the special projects manager for San Antonio's Edwards Aquifer Protection Program and now consults for it, nearly 18 percent of the part of the recharge zone that affects San Antonio has been conserved.
Easements are supposed to enact permanent restrictions on property, and each is structured differently. Rebecca Flack, a Bandera representative of the Nature Conservancy, which facilitated Mrs. Rothe's deal, said the easements generally prevented any ranches smaller than 1,000 acres from being subdivided.
Ranches larger than that, like Mrs. Rothe's, might be allowed to break into one or more divisions. Hunting and fishing are permitted, as is traditional ranching. (Mrs. Rothe and her husband keep cattle.) But the number of water wells is limited, as is the amount of ''impervious cover,'' like roads and houses.
The default easement also aims to prevent oil and gas drilling, to the extent possible in a state where surface rights and mineral rights often have different owners. But the easements alone will not fend off state projects, like transmission lines, that are backed by eminent domain authority.
The city generally pays $800 to $1,200 per acre for an easement, according to the Nature Conservancy. Mrs. Rothe said her deal fell within that range, though she declined to offer specifics.
By preventing developments like subdivisions, the easements prevent items like pesticides used in yards and parks from sinking into the aquifer, said Gregory M. Ellis, a former general manager of the Edwards Aquifer Authority, an agency charged with managing and protecting the aquifer, though it is not in charge of the conservation program. Ms. Smith, the conservation program consultant, said that in the last funding round, more ranchers wanted to sell easements to San Antonio than the city was able to accommodate.
But Bob Martin, president of the Homeowner-Taxpayer Association of Bexar County, expressed concern about San Antonio taxpayers' money going toward the purchases of land or easements in other counties.
''The burden is falling on Bexar County residents only,'' Mr. Martin said.
The conservation program has won support from San Antonio's business community, which sees water security as vital to development.
''It sounds very touchy-feely, but at the end of the day, if we don't have water, then it's like a plant -- our community withers and goes away,'' said Richard Perez, the president and chief executive of the Greater San Antonio Chamber of Commerce.
Mr. Perez noted, however, that San Antonio also hoped to diversify its water supply -- with, for example, a proposed desalination plant drawing from the brackish water in the nearby Carrizo-Wilcox Aquifer.
San Antonio's program is being expanded at a time when national and state budget troubles have cut into land conservation, said Kate Vickery, outreach coordinator for the Texas Land Conservancy, a land-trust group.
''Our situation in Texas is particularly challenging,'' Ms. Vickery said in an e-mail. ''Ninety-five percent of our land is privately owned, but the state has invested exactly $0 in strategic land-conservation efforts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A conservation easement on this ranch in Medina County is part of San Antonio's program to protect the Edwards Aquifer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MULIADI SOENARYO FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (91%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); APPROVALS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); SALES TAX (50%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (95%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (87%); DALLAS, TX, USA (55%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (55%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



402 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: In a Battle for Turf, Sears Revs Up the Riding Mower

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
A RETAILER struggling to fend off increasing competition is borrowing a page from the marketing playbook of products like soft drinks and soup by naming its rivals in aggressive advertising.
Sears, in a campaign scheduled to begin on Sunday, will urge consumers to shop for lawn and garden products at Sears rather than Home Depot or Lowe's. A description of the campaign on a section of the Sears Web site (sears.com/turfwars) underlines its tough-talking nature: ''Sears Turf Wars, fighting the Home Depot and Lowe's for the right to be on your lawn.''
The campaign, being created by the Chicago office of Y&R, has an extensive presence in new media, including Web video clips, social media and a mobile application that enables comparisons of products sold by those three retailers. 
'' 'Turf Wars' isn't just an ad campaign,'' said Martin Lee, vice president and chief marketing officer for lawn and garden products at Sears Holdings in Hoffman Estates, Ill. ''It's a marketing platform, an attitude, a statement of what we will do for our lawn and garden customers.''
Sears, part of the Sears Holdings Corporation, is joining a lengthy list of marketers challenging competitors rather than using coy terms like ''Brand X'' or ''another leading brand.'' Such direct campaigns are known in the industry as comparative advertising, but they amount to the Madison Avenue equivalent of the negative advertising that is prevalent in politics.
Comparative ads typically become more commonplace when the economy is weak, on the theory that when times are tough it may pay to hit your rival harder.
''We wanted to create disruptive advertising,'' Mr. Lee said. ''The brief to the agency was 'shock and shatter.' ''
Among brands that have been naming names in pointed ads are Pepsi Max and Sierra Mist Natural sodas, citing, respectively, Coke Zero and Sprite; Campbell's Select Harvest soups, tackling Progresso, which soon counterattacked; Dunkin' Donuts, taking on the coffee sold by Starbucks; and the Chevrolet Cruze, proclaiming its superiority to the Honda Civic and the Toyota Corolla.
Comparative advertising is not without its risks. One is that the intended audience may be turned off by the tactic, flagging the sponsor for unnecessary roughness. Another risk is that the novelty of hearing or seeing names of other products in ads may prevent consumers from recalling who the sponsor actually was.
And comparative advertising requires ''a high degree of believability about the message,'' said Robert Passikoff, president of Brand Keys in New York, a brand and customer-loyalty consulting company.
For instance, ''if I tell you Kia is a match for Mercedes,'' he added, ''you'd be laughing your head off.''
In the Brand Keys rankings of sellers of merchandise in the categories of garden care and home repair, Sears is fifth among five retailers, Mr. Passikoff said, trailing, in order, Ace, True Value, Home Depot and Lowe's.
However, the Craftsman brand, which is a focus of the new Sears campaign, does resonate with consumers on attributes like quality and value, he added.
The initial television commercial in the campaign features an assertive, gravelly voiced actor named John Lacy, who has appeared in films like ''Live Free or Die Hard'' and ''Zodiac.'' He comes across more like a pitchman in a truck ad than a retail spot.
Indeed, Mr. Lacy is first glimpsed inside the cab of a truck, part of a caravan delivering Sears lawn and garden products. The trucks drive past a Lowe's store before setting up the merchandise in a parking lot near a Home Depot.
''There's a lot of home improvement centers out there,'' he says, ''but does paying more for less mower really improve anything? You deserve better.''
Sears will ''put our money where our mouth is,'' Mr. Lacy says, by offering a lowest-price guarantee,'' adding, ''You won't find a better deal there or there,'' pointing to the Lowe's and Home Depot stores.
''It's a turf war, 'cause your lawn is worth fighting for,'' he concludes.
The campaign is ''purposely aggressive and provocative,'' said Bob Winter, chief creative officer at Y&R Chicago, part of the Y&R unit of Young & Rubicam Brands, owned by WPP.
''It's definitely got a little bit of bravado,'' Mr. Winter said, because Sears executives ''feel it's time to show bravado.''
But it does not go too far, he added: ''It's a war. But it's a war waged with riding mowers that max out at seven miles an hour.''
The tone should appeal to potential customers, Mr. Winter said, describing them as ''middle-aged suburban dudes'' for whom ''their lawn is their ultimate form of self-expression.''
The campaign is arriving as Y&R Chicago takes part in a review for the Sears creative account, with spending last year, according to Kantar Media, of $459.4 million, of which $12.3 million was devoted to lawn and garden products.
Asked what it was like to produce the campaign at such a precarious time, Mr. Winter replied: ''We're focused on the future, and doing the right thing for our client, no matter what. The review aside, our challenge is to provide them with innovative creative solutions to their problems, and we're going to continue to do that.''
Mr. Lee declined to discuss the review but said, ''Y&R really did a great job for us on this.''
The Turf Wars do not seem to be prompting Sears's rivals to wave white flags. For example, Home Depot and a company called Scanbuy are introducing a print campaign using mobile bar codes, or QR codes, to provide information about Martha Stewart Living merchandise.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Sears campaign takes a competitive approach by naming garden equipment rivals like the Home Depot. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); GARDENING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); BRAND EQUITY (70%)

COMPANY: SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (92%); HOME DEPOT INC (85%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (81%)

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (92%); HD (NYSE) (85%); DNKN (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (92%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (92%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (85%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (85%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (81%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



403 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: The Forgotten Millions

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
More than three years after we entered the worst economic slump since the 1930s, a strange and disturbing thing has happened to our political discourse: Washington has lost interest in the unemployed.
Jobs do get mentioned now and then -- and a few political figures, notably Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader in the House, are still trying to get some kind of action. But no jobs bills have been introduced in Congress, no job-creation plans have been advanced by the White House and all the policy focus seems to be on spending cuts.
So one-sixth of America's workers -- all those who can't find any job or are stuck with part-time work when they want a full-time job -- have, in effect, been abandoned. 
It might not be so bad if the jobless could expect to find new employment fairly soon. But unemployment has become a trap, one that's very difficult to escape. There are almost five times as many unemployed workers as there are job openings; the average unemployed worker has been jobless for 37 weeks, a post-World War II record.
In short, we're well on the way to creating a permanent underclass of the jobless. Why doesn't Washington care?
Part of the answer may be that while those who are unemployed tend to stay unemployed, those who still have jobs are feeling more secure than they did a couple of years ago. Layoffs and discharges spiked during the crisis of 2008-2009 but have fallen sharply since then, perhaps reducing the sense of urgency. Put it this way: At this point, the U.S. economy is suffering from low hiring, not high firing, so things don't look so bad -- as long as you're willing to write off the unemployed.
Yet polls indicate that voters still care much more about jobs than they do about the budget deficit. So it's quite remarkable that inside the Beltway, it's just the opposite.
What makes this even more remarkable is the fact that the economic arguments used to justify the D.C. deficit obsession have been repeatedly refuted by experience.
On one side, we've been warned, over and over again, that ''bond vigilantes'' will turn on the U.S. government unless we slash spending immediately. Yet interest rates remain low by historical standards; indeed, they're lower now than they were in the spring of 2009, when those dire warnings began.
On the other side, we've been assured that spending cuts would do wonders for business confidence. But that hasn't happened in any of the countries currently pursuing harsh austerity programs. Notably, when the Cameron government in Britain announced austerity measures last May, it received fawning praise from U.S. deficit hawks. But British business confidence plunged, and it has not recovered.
Yet the obsession with spending cuts flourishes all the same -- unchallenged, it must be said, by the White House.
I still don't know why the Obama administration was so quick to accept defeat in the war of ideas, but the fact is that it surrendered very early in the game. In early 2009, John Boehner, now the speaker of the House, was widely and rightly mocked for declaring that since families were suffering, the government should tighten its own belt. That's Herbert Hoover economics, and it's as wrong now as it was in the 1930s. But, in the 2010 State of the Union address, President Obama adopted exactly the same metaphor and began using it incessantly.
And earlier this week, the White House budget director declared: ''There is an agreement that we should be reducing spending,'' suggesting that his only quarrel with Republicans is over whether we should be cutting taxes, too. No wonder, then, that according to a new Pew Research Center poll, a majority of Americans see ''not much difference'' between Mr. Obama's approach to the deficit and that of Republicans.
So who pays the price for this unfortunate bipartisanship? The increasingly hopeless unemployed, of course. And the worst hit will be young workers -- a point made in 2009 by Peter Orszag, then the White House budget director. As he noted, young Americans who graduated during the severe recession of the early 1980s suffered permanent damage to their earnings. And if the average duration of unemployment is any indication, it's even harder for new graduates to find decent jobs now than it was in 1982 or 1983.
So the next time you hear some Republican declaring that he's concerned about deficits because he cares about his children -- or, for that matter, the next time you hear Mr. Obama talk about winning the future -- you should remember that the clear and present danger to the prospects of young Americans isn't the deficit. It's the absence of jobs.
But, as I said, these days Washington doesn't seem to care about any of that. And you have to wonder what it will take to get politicians caring again about America's forgotten millions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (62%); WORLD WAR II (51%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



404 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Praise and Criticism: Doling Them Out to a Child

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Modesty Manifesto,'' by David Brooks (column, March 11):
There are many sociological reasons for the overconfidence of American society, one of which is the overuse of positive reinforcement by generations of parents since the 1960s. 
I raised a child in the '80s and '90s and constantly questioned the hypocrisy of giving a soccer trophy to everyone on the team, and awards created in as many categories as there were members of the drama club.
Practices like these do not prepare children for the real world, where praise for excellence is measured against much tougher standards. The egos of today's young adults have developed from the hollow positive response of parents and authority figures to mediocre performances, born out of the fear of hurting a child's self-esteem.
Simply giving praise, and never constructively criticizing, leaves many young adults unable to objectively assess their abilities and results in the ''dumbing down'' of what passes for excellence.
JoAnn Ignelzi Belmont, Mass., March 11, 2011
To the Editor:
''The Modesty Manifesto'' is apt to be misunderstood by some parents. David Brooks says: ''Young people are bathed in messages telling them how special they are. Often these messages are untethered to evidence of actual merit.''
Whether this assertion is generalizable to the entire population, I don't know. But I do know that parents should not communicate messages that reinforce negative self-images in the children.
Some parents may believe that in order to teach reality, they have to tell the child ''the truth'' about their performances, criticizing and ''correcting'' them. Such an approach of persistent parental negativity can promote an inner image of profound deflation and devaluation in the growing child, and even perhaps the development of a defensive unrealistic grandiosity (the unrealistically inflated self-esteem that Mr. Brooks refers to).
Practicing positive parenting does not mean showering the child with unrealistic praise; rather, the parent communicates praise and defines the limits of realistic expectations at the same time.
Leon Hoffman New York, March 11, 2011
The writer is co-director of the Pacella Parent Child Center of the New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); PARENTING (77%); WRITERS (73%); SOCCER (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



405 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Group of 7 To Intervene To Stabilize Yen's Value

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; Hiroko Tabuchi contributed from Tokyo.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The United States and other major industrial nations will join Japan in a highly unusual effort to stabilize the value of the yen by intervening in currency markets, the Group of 7 nations announced Thursday night.
Markets responded immediately by driving down the value of the yen against the dollar, reversing almost a week of sharp increases. The Nikkei 225, the leading index of the Japanese stock market, also surged on the news.
The rising value of the yen threatened to undermine demand for Japanese exports at the same time that a series of disasters has damaged the domestic economy. 
Japanese officials said earlier on Thursday that they could respond unilaterally and wanted only the approval of other nations, but they requested and received additional help during a conference call with finance ministers and central bankers on Thursday night.
In a statement expressing ''solidarity with the Japanese people,'' the Group of 7 nations said they would conduct a ''concerted intervention in exchange markets'' on Friday.
''As we have long stated, excess volatility and disorderly movements in exchange rates have adverse implications for economic and financial stability,'' the group said in a joint statement.
It is the first time since 2000 that the Group of 7 nations has made a coordinated intervention into the currency markets, then to stabilize the euro. During the 1990s, the yen and the dollar were also the targets of similar coordinated interventions.
The governments of Japan, the United States, Britain and Canada, and the European Central Bank, will seek to reduce and stabilize the value of the yen by selling their own reserves of the Japanese currency for other currencies as necessary.
Stabilizing exchange rates is intended to curb speculation, which the Japanese government described as a main driver of recent market activity. Weakening the yen will also allow consumers in other countries to buy Japanese goods at lower prices.
''I think there's a very good argument that it's in everyone's interest to stabilize the Japanese financial system, and part of that effort is to stabilize the yen,'' said Jens Nordvig, an analyst with Nomura Securities. ''Normally it only happens when the currency is completely misaligned, and that condition is not in place here, but I think the extraordinary circumstances have made them go ahead and do it nonetheless.''
The intervention is billed as a one-day event, but Mr. Nordvig said it may serve as a blessing from the other countries for additional unilateral action by Japan.
Investors might have been expected to sell yen as Japan struggles to deal with the impact of an earthquake, a tsunami and a nuclear crisis.
Instead they had flocked to the currency, briefly driving its value relative to the dollar to the highest level on record Thursday, before it receded to close at about 79 yen to the dollar.
In overnight trading, the yen weakened by 3 percent, to 81.3 to the dollar.
Some analysts said the buying was driven by speculation that Japanese insurance companies and other investors would sell foreign assets to cover the cost of rebuilding after the earthquake.
Japanese officials sought to dispel that theory, noting that past disasters such as a 1995 earthquake did not create such an effect.
Japanese investors who have taken advantage of low interest rates to borrow yen cheaply and invest in higher yielding foreign currencies may have responded to the disaster by pulling money out of the markets.
The rise may have been amplified by investors forced to cover bets that the yen would remain weak, analysts said.
The jump in price might not cause concern in normal times, as the yen has remained within a fairly normal range of its historic value.
But the upward movement and accompanying volatility are hitting Japan at a time when it needs fewer problems.
''As Japan faces a period of adversity, it is extremely significant for the G-7 to jointly work toward stability in markets,'' the Japanese finance minister, Yoshihiko Noda, told reporters in Tokyo Friday.
The value of the yen has been on the upswing since 2007, a reflection of the relative strength of the Japanese economy as financial crises hit the United States and Europe.
One dollar now buys 34 percent fewer yen than it did four years ago.
The Bank of Japan intervened briefly in September, buying dollars to drive down the value of the yen and drawing a rebuke from European officials for acting alone.
''Unilateral actions are not an appropriate way to deal with global imbalances,'' Jean-Claude Juncker, Luxembourg's prime minister and president of the Euro Group, an organization of European finance ministers, said at the time.
Thursday's meeting, organized by the French finance minister Christine Lagarde, who holds the rotating chair of the Group of 7, hewed closely to that advice.
It also followed a recent pattern of responses by authorities in the United States and other countries that are calibrated to overwhelm emerging financial problems.
The call, held before markets opened Friday in Tokyo, included officials from Canada, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom.
The United States was represented by the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. Mr. Geithner briefed President Obama on the decision, officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (93%); CURRENCIES (92%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); EURO (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); TSUNAMIS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); APPROVALS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



406 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE SPORTS; Pg. 25B

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: At Rockne's School, a Different Sport Thrives

BYLINE: By DAN McGRATH. 
dmcgrath@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
Notre Dame, where Knute Rockne invented college football and Ara Parseghian perfected it, has become a basketball school.
The suggestion amused Mike Brey, the 51-year-old coach responsible for the apparent transformation. But he didn't dismiss it.
''It's hoops right now,'' Brey said. ''This is kind of an exclamation point on the consistency we've achieved over the last 11 years.'' 
Brey came to South Bend from Delaware in 2000, succeeding long-forgotten Matt Doherty, who made an ill-fated return to North Carolina after just one year as John MacLeod's replacement. Notre Dame football, meanwhile, has been though five coaches since Brey was hired to run basketball.
The team he brings to the United Center to face Akron on Friday in Notre Dame's opening game of the N.C.A.A. tournament is not the best of his seven tournament squads, but it has achieved the most: a 26-6 record, including 14-4 in the beastly Big East Conference, and a No. 2 seed in the Southwest Regional.
Managing that after losing the four-year mainstays Luke Harangody and Tory Jackson earned Brey his third Big East coach of the year award. There probably isn't a future pro on his roster, with the possible exception of Ben Hansbrough, the Big East player of the year as a gnarly, Scott Skiles-type all-purpose guard.
''Maybe we haven't always played great, but we've gone for it,'' Brey said. ''You can't play like you're afraid to lose.''
The rebuilt Irish are the oldest squad in recent N.C.A.A. memory, with five senior starters. That defines Brey's theory of team: no one-and-done phenoms, but a cohesive group of grinder types who learn the game as they earn playing time and mature into useful contributors as upperclassmen.
''Guys get better here,'' Brey said. ''If you plug in with us and let us teach you, you'll get better. Ty Nash said we're like the Blue Team All-Stars -- not one of our guys was a freshman starter. They all have to earn their minutes. No team is more reliant on the sum of its parts than we are. We're kind of refreshing as a model.''
It's a model Northwestern might seek to replicate as it trudged off to the National Invitation Tournament with a bid that might have saved Coach Bill Carmody's job. A third straight N.I.T. appearance represents progress at a school with precious little basketball tradition, but more was expected. This was supposed to be the year a lifetime exclusion from N.C.A.A. tournament play was cured.
It wasn't. The Big Ten got seven bids, but Northwestern was not invited after going 7-11 in conference play.
Carmody suffers by comparison with football Coach Pat Fitzgerald, a lionized Wildcat since his days as an All-American linebacker at Northwestern. Fitzgerald has yet to win a bowl game in his five seasons, but he has taken the Wildcats to three of them while averaging seven wins a year and creating the impression that they're overachieving Big Ten contenders. Job security? N.U. considers itself lucky to have him.
One could argue that 18 basketball wins and an N.I.T. bid is roughly equivalent to seven football victories and a TicketCity Bowl appearance, but that math doesn't work at Northwestern. Carmody has to do better, particularly in recruiting. He knows it, too -- he no longer works for the president or for the athletic director who hired him.
Change at the top often filters down in collegiate sports, so Jim Whitesell probably wasn't shocked when he was summoned to his new boss's office on Monday and let go as Loyola's coach.
A more ambitious athletic program is part of Loyola's plan to repurpose itself, and W. Grace Calhoun, appointed last month after John Planek was forced out as athletic director in January, is in charge of the upgrade. Be careful what you wish for -- DePaul is 2-52 in its last three seasons of Big East play after stepping up from Conference USA.
Calhoun wants her own guy coaching men's hoops, which remains Loyola's signature sport 48 years after the Ramblers became the only Illinois team to win the N.C.A.A. tournament.
These days, Loyola calls the Horizon League home, which hardly stirs the blood of a Chicago sports fan, mighty Butler notwithstanding. It was plenty tough for Whitesell -- he was 109-106 and idle in March over seven seasons, often reliant on small-town Wisconsin plodders. The team will have a stronger local identity under the new coach, Calhoun vows.
Elsewhere in the unemployment line, Ricardo Patton had four years to get something done at Northern Illinois, but he didn't, going 35-83. Jeff Compher, the athletic director, can hardly be accused of acting with undue haste after dismissing Patton last week.
Not so Michael Cross, who decided Jim Les wasn't his man after 14 months on the job as athletic director at Bradley. Les, the Missouri Valley Conference player of the year for the Braves in 1986, didn't help himself by going 12-20 this season, including 4-14 in the conference. But he had Bradley in the Round of 16 five years ago and was 154-140 in his nine seasons.
Meanwhile, Mike Brey is in position to make his 11th season his best at Notre Dame. There's something to be said for stability.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Coach Mike Brey of Notre Dame prodded his team on March 11 in the Big East semifinals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS TROTMAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); BASKETBALL (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF AKRON (56%); BIG EAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



407 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Bay Cities Are Courting Berkeley Lab

BYLINE: By FRANCES DINKELSPIEL. 
fdinkelspiel@gmail.com

 BODY:
The quest by Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory to find a site for a second campus has prompted cities around the East Bay to go to great lengths to outshine one another. 
Alameda offered to donate 45 acres to the lab -- free.
Richmond prepared a five-minute video with uplifting music and heartfelt testimonials about what a great place it was to work.
The Dublin City Council passed a resolution supporting the lab.
The competition is fierce because the stakes are huge. A recent economic study showed that Berkeley Lab pumps $690 million into the Bay Area economy each year and spurs the creation of 3.3 new jobs for every full-time position. The second campus is expected not only to create hundreds of jobs but to spin off technology companies too.
''Every city understands that a project of this scale and quality becomes a transformational influence on the local economy,'' said Michael Caplan, the City of Berkeley's manager of economic development.
The lab received 21 proposals by its March 4 deadline from developers in eight cities: Oakland, Berkeley, Emeryville, Albany, Alameda, Richmond, Walnut Creek and Dublin. Each city helped developers prepare materials that extolled its civic virtues.
''We apparently received many videos, along with brochures and photographs,'' said Jon R. Weiner, the lab's manager of communications and media relations.
The lab plans to whittle the list to four finalists by April and select a final site in June.
The lab long ago outgrew its headquarters on 200 acres in Strawberry Canyon at the University of California, Berkeley. About 80 percent of the lab's 4,200 employees work there, with the other 20 percent scattered in offices around the East Bay.
The lab wants to consolidate all its ancillary units on the new site and have room to grow. In announcing the requirements for a second campus, the lab said it was looking for a site to accommodate two million square feet of office and laboratory space.
The lab also said it would consider other factors, including a ''beautiful environment,'' a 20-minute to 25-minute drive to the existing lab, and proximity to existing or planned restaurants and mass transit.
The promise of a large, government-financed development in troubling economic times prompted a number of developers to amend existing plans to accommodate the campus.
For example, MI Developments, the Canadian owner of Golden Gate Fields, the racetrack that straddles 140 acres in Berkeley and Albany, had been pushing to build a shopping center. The company scuttled that idea in favor of a plan that includes the lab, according to Judy Lieberman, the assistant city manager of Albany.
While the various East Bay cities are competing with one another, they need to cooperate on other initiatives, like the creation of the East Bay Green Corridor.
For that reason, the rivalry is friendly.
''I wouldn't call it destructive competition,'' said Bill Lindsay, Richmond's city manager. ''Our relations are still very good. We know one site will be selected and the others will not. We know it is good for the region.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (69%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (67%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (60%)

COMPANY: GRANITE REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUST (51%)

TICKER: GRT (TSX) (51%); GRPU (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



408 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Racehorses Starve as Charity Fails in Mission to Care for Them

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
One of the largest private organizations in the world dedicated to caring for former racehorses has been so slow or delinquent in paying for the upkeep of the more than 1,000 horses under its care that scores have wound up starved and neglected, some fatally, according to interviews and inspection reports.
The Thoroughbred Retirement Foundation, based in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., just miles from the famous racetrack that annually hosts one of thoroughbred racing's premier meets, for years has received millions in donations from some pillars of the industry. But over the past two years, according to the foundation's financial disclosure documents, it has been operating at a deficit, and as a result has not reliably been paying the 25 farms it contracts with to oversee the retired horses.
For example, at the 4-H Farm in Oklahoma, inspectors last month could find only 47 of the 63 retired horses that had been assigned to it. Many of those were starving. The rest had died, probably of neglect, inspectors concluded. Last week, at a Kentucky farm that is also supposed to receive money from the foundation, 34 horses were found in ''poor'' or ''emaciated'' condition, inspectors found. One horse had to be euthanized because of malnutrition. 
It is unclear how many members of the foundation's blue-chip board of trustees might have been aware of the deteriorating quality of care the horses were receiving. But the foundation's biggest benefactor -- the estate of the breeder and owner Paul Mellon -- in recent years had become concerned about the growth of the foundation's herd after hearing the complaints of caretakers, and it investigated.
The estate, which in 2001 established a $5 million endowment for the foundation and subsequently contributed $2 million more, last December requested that Stacey Huntington, a veterinarian based in Springfield, Mo., evaluate the foundation's herd. So far, Ms. Huntington, along with a local veterinarian in each location, has examined more than 700 horses at more than a dozen farms from Oklahoma to Kentucky and South Carolina. She found many examples of neglect and lack of support from the T.R.F. in her visits to the farms.
''We have dug ourselves a big hole financially, and we're still behind,'' the foundation's president, George Grayson, said. ''It's been a struggle to keep up with the costs associated with a large and aging horse population, at a time when the economy and giving is down. Everybody on the board takes any allegation seriously, and anything less than positive circumstances for the horses are unacceptable. When we've been made aware of issues, we have responded quickly, and we will on this.''
The cases of neglect, while noteworthy because of the prominence of the organization overseeing the horses, are only the latest embarrassment for an industry that remains vexed by one of its most fundamental challenges: how to humanely look out for horses that no longer have any value at the racetrack or in the breeding shed.
The Thoroughbred Retirement Foundation was founded in 1984 to save racehorses no longer able to compete on the racetrack ''from possible neglect, abuse and slaughter,'' its mission statement says.
It has been embraced by some of the biggest forces in the sport: the Jockey Club has given the foundation nearly $250,000 over the past two years, and individual owners -- like Mike Repole, the co-founder of Glaceau water and the owner of the current Kentucky Derby favorite, Uncle Mo -- have given sizable contributions as well.
Over the years, the foundation's board has included some of the sport's most influential owners, and the farms it contracts with have been homes to many of the horses those owners have bred and campaigned. Beam Us Up, an accomplished racehorse bred by Richard Santulli, the former chief executive of NetJets, was recently removed from one of the contract farms because of neglect. Santulli's wife, Peggy, is on the T.R.F. board.
The findings of the veterinarian hired by the Mellon estate, Ms. Huntington, moved the estate's trustees to send the farms money for things as basic as food. She found that some 25 percent of the horses have required some kind of urgent care, which the Mellon estate has provided, costing it ''tens of thousands'' of dollars, said Ted Terry, one of its trustees.
Ms. Huntington found that the foundation's education of the caretakers and oversight of their farms had been poor. At one farm, Ms. Huntington said, the horses were being fed cattle feed that contained a toxic element.
''The horses are getting the short end of the stick from this group that advertises itself as advocates of horses,'' Ms. Huntington said.
The most dramatic instance of neglect discovered so far, she said, was at the 4-H Farm in Okmulgee, Okla., where the owners, Alan and Janice Hudgins, would not let Ms. Huntington onto their property to inspect T.R.F. horses until the foundation gave them $20,000, a partial payment of what was owed them for taking care of 63 horses since 2005. They also forced the foundation to sign a pledge not to prosecute them for the condition of the horses.
When the horses were released, the 47 survivors were in such poor condition that Ms. Huntington filed a report with the Okmulgee County sheriff's office. Her report included photographs of the malnourished horses, three of them considered starving. Nearly all of them needed urgent care.
Ms. Hudgins said her farm had kept horses for the foundation since 2005, but in recent years it fell into a pattern of falling behind in payments.
In a tough economy with rising fuel and feed costs, Ms. Hudgins said her family got tired of having to settle for less than they were owed by the foundation. She said they had done the best they could with the horses, and had informed the T.R.F. that some older horses had died.
The foundation ran a $1.2 million deficit in 2009, according to its most recent tax filings with the federal government, three times the total in its previous filing. Its inability to pay the agreed costs for the care of its horses severed a number of relationships with farms, including Claybank Farm in Lexington, Ky., which cared for up to 80 horses.
Interviews with farm owners, as well as e-mail correspondence they provided, showed the foundation was aware of its deepening financial straits -- occasionally taking horses from farms where they had been well cared for and placing them elsewhere on the cheap.
Last September, the T.R.F. owed Out2Pasture Farms in Jamestown, Mo., more than $43,000, The farm, run by two University of Missouri professors, Zachary and Robin Hurst-March, is one of the nation's most highly regarded sanctuaries for thoroughbreds. When the couple pressed for payment, the T.R.F. asked them to reduce their per diem to $3 a day and eventually removed 13 of their horses.
''I was being emotionally blackmailed to lower my per diem, and was the subject of retribution because I questioned the care of the horses,'' said Mrs. Hurst-Marsh, who is owed $10,000.
When Gayle England, whose farm in Stroud, Okla., is also highly regarded as a special-care facility, complained not only of the chronic slow pay but the general lack of regard for the farms and the horses, 26 T.R.F. horses were taken from her.
Last month, some of the horses in the worst shape were taken from other foundation farms and returned to the Hurst-Marsh farm and Ms. England. In fact, one of the 14 horses moved to England's farm with the help and funding of the Mellon Estate had to be put down.
''They were making their administrative payroll this whole time, but the horses they were suffering,'' Ms. England said. ''They need to be held accountable.''
Mr. Terry, a Mellon estate trustee, said he still does not know what went wrong.
''We don't know if it was bad judgment, taking on too many horses or bad decisions made internally,'' he said. ''Eventually, we're going to have to ask ourselves if we are throwing good money after bad.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gayle England says a foundation needs to be held accountable. (A1)
Horses were taken to Gayle England's ranch in Oklahoma after they were found to be ailing.
 Stacey Huntington, a veterinarian, said, ''The horses are getting the short end of the stick from this group.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRANDI SIMONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); STARVATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); ENDOWMENTS (76%); MALNUTRITION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (53%) OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



409 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Arizona Senate Rejects 5 Bills On Immigration

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
PHOENIX (AP) -- The Arizona Senate soundly defeated five bills aimed at illegal immigration on Thursday in a marked departure from last year, when enactment of a tough local enforcement measure put the state at the heart of a fierce national debate over the issue. 
Majority Republicans were split over the bills, which included two measures intended to force a United States Supreme Court ruling against automatic citizenship for American-born children of illegal immigrants.
Business leaders had been urging lawmakers to put the issue aside to avoid damaging the ailing economy.
''It's time for us to take a timeout,'' said Senator John McComish, a Phoenix Republican. ''It's something that the people don't want us to be focusing on.''
Critics also said the bills were overreaching and flawed. Supporters voiced frustration and said there could be political fallout for lawmakers who voted against them.
''The lack of political courage'' is the only impediment to step up pressure on illegal immigration, said Senator Russell Pearce, a Republican who sponsored the 2010 law.
One of the bills would have required hospitals to report people who lack insurance and cannot demonstrate legal status. Another would require schools to report on enrollments of illegal immigrant students. The fifth would have made it a crime for illegal immigrants to drive in Arizona.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (56%); CITIZENSHIP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (58%) ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



410 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Simultaneous Shows, One Indoors, One Out

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Still without a permanent home in Manhattan and with spring fast approaching, the Dia Art Foundation has cooked up a way to lure audiences to its museum on the Hudson River in Beacon, N.Y., while also paying homage to its past.
It has teamed up with Montclair State University in New Jersey, which presents the Peak Performances series, and has commissioned the 75-year-old artist Robert Whitman to create a theater piece that will be shown simultaneously outdoors at Riverfront Park near Dia:Beacon and indoors at the university's Alexander Kasser Theater in Montclair, N.J. Mr. Whitman, a multimedia experimenter who has enjoyed a long relationship with Dia, made a reputation for himself in the early 1960s, along with Claes Oldenburg, Allan Kaprow, Jim Dine, Red Grooms and Robert Watts, by staging happenings, those fleeting performances that are considered classics of the genre today.
The new work, ''Passport,'' will be shown on April 16 and 17. (Tickets are available through diabeacon .org.) Mr. Whitman described the piece in a statement as ''nonverbal theater, using a vocabulary of space, rhythm, scale and formal plastic elements that communicate the image without words.'' 
As in the past, Mr. Whitman has collaborated with engineers and scientists to create images that use live action, props, sound and video. Each location will show something different. In Beacon he will incorporate the surrounding environment. A burning boat will float down the Hudson, and the sound of a passing Metro-North train will be heard. In Montclair colored liquid will spew from a volcano. The images will be transmitted live from one location to the other via video, so all together, about 600 people can see the work.
''Bob Whitman is part of our DNA,'' said Philippe Vergne, Dia's director. ''Performance has been a long part of Dia's history.'' And while veterans might be familiar with Mr. Whitman's work, Mr. Vergne said that by presenting this new performance he hoped that ''young people will understand his history too.''
MAPPLETHORPE REVISITED
As Elisabeth, a 52-year-old rabbi from Newton, Mass., perused more than 2,000 photographs by Robert Mapplethorpe, she had a specific mandate: select just one that particularly caught her eye.
''I didn't expect to choose this image,'' she wrote in a statement explaining her choice: a naked portrait of Patti Smith from 1976, her knees pressed to her chest. ''I did not expect to choose a recognizable face.''
Sean Kelly, who owns the Chelsea gallery that bears his name, was also surprised. He was curious to see if reaction to Mapplethorpe's work had changed since 1989, when the Corcoran Gallery in Washington canceled an exhibition of his work because of concerns that Mapplethorpe's homoerotic and sadomasochistic imagery would lead to a backlash against the National Endowment for the Arts, which had provided partial financing.
So Mr. Kelly challenged himself to organize a show that was, as he put it, ''a demographic snapshot through Robert's lens, literally.'' He asked 50 random people, one from every state, to each select one photograph.
''There were caveats,'' Mr. Kelly explained. ''It couldn't be anyone we knew, and no relatives.''
His gallery began conducting demographic research, studying census data on state populations, economies and religious makeup. Gallery staff members talked to friends, and advertised on Craigslist and Facebook, to come up with 50 people (none under 21), ranging from a 23-year-old math teacher in Oklahoma to a 106-year-old retired farmer in Vermont. Each participant was given a password and a couple of weeks to study the images on a private area of the Robert Mapplethorpe Foundation's Web site.
Their choices make up ''Robert Mapplethorpe: 50 Americans,'' a show at Mr. Kelly's gallery from May 6 through June 25. Alongside the photos will be participants' explanations of their decisions. (All those taking part are identified by first name only.)
''Nobody made safe choices,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''The images were not at all what you would predict. We were concerned that we could get 50 famous images or lots of shots of flowers.'' Instead, he said, some picks were ''incredibly personal,'' like that of a Wyoming rancher who had been mauled by a bear. He chose a photo of Lisa Lyon, Mapplethorpe's friend and model, with a tiger, because the animal reminded him of his fiercely protective dogs.
Other selections were more interpretive, like that of a Michigan woman who chose ''Embrace,'' a shot of a black man and a white man hugging, because, she wrote, ''I see comfort, hope and hopelessness all in one.''
A LENS ON AMERICA
In the early 1980s the shipping company Consolidated Freightways put together a photography collection for its headquarters, then in Palo Alto, Calif. Not surprisingly, many of the images captured the American landscape -- a highway in New Mexico; a sunrise in Nevada; a plantation in Mississippi -- all sights the company's truckers might encounter on any given day.
Consolidated Freightways filed for bankruptcy protection in 2002, but its parent company, Con-way, retained the photographs. And now, because it is moving its headquarters to Ann Arbor, Mich., Con-way has decided to auction off the images.
''The art collection was from a different time in the company's history,'' said Gary Frantz, a Con-way spokesman. ''Rather than move the art, the company thought it was a good time to sell it.''
On April 7 Christie's plans to auction a group of photos in New York. (Another group will be sold in New York in December.)
''This is one of the early corporate collections to focus on photography and with a specific theme,'' said Joshua Holdeman, international director of Christie's photography department. ''These photographs were so cheap then, it was an easy way for a corporation to put together a large collection.''
But now many of the images -- works by the likes of Ansel Adams and Hiroshi Sugimoto; Dorothea Lange and Walker Evans; Robert Mapplethorpe, William Eggleston and Bernd and Hilla Becher -- are highly sought after by collectors willing to pay hefty sums. The entire collection is expected to bring more than $1.5 million.
Among the highlights is Mapplethorpe's ''Flag,'' from 1987, which is estimated at $70,000 to $90,000, and Robert Frank's ''U.S. 285, New Mexico,'' from 1956 ($50,000 to $70,000).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Embrace'' (1982) is part of ''Robert Mapplethorpe: 50 Americans,'' to open in May at the Sean Kelly Gallery in Chelsea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT MAPPLETHORPE FOUNDATION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



411 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rally as Panic Over Japan Eases

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL and BETTINA WASSENER; Binyamin Appelbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks staged a broad relief rally as panic about the nuclear crisis in Japan seemed to abate temporarily and markets were reassured by an intervention by the Group of 7 industrialized nations to help stabilize the yen.
Analysts say the gains reflect the market's sense that a severe nuclear catastrophe that seemed possible at the end of the day on Wednesday appeared far less likely Thursday morning.
''When we didn't have a nuclear meltdown overnight, cooler heads prevailed,'' said Tobias Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist of Citigroup. ''And a lot of traders came to the realization that while what happened in Japan is incredibly tragic and hard to watch and comprehend, its global impact is probably more muted than we initially thought.'' 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose by 1.3 percent, up 16.84 points to 1,273.72, its first positive day this week. The Dow Jones industrial average added 161.29 points, or 1.4 percent, to close at 11,774.59, while the Nasdaq composite index edged up 0.7 percent, adding 19.23 points to close at 2,636.05.
With worries about radioactive fallout easing, traders began to speculate on which sectors would benefit from eventual efforts to rebuild the stricken parts of Japan. The largest gains on Thursday came from sectors that could profit from reconstruction.
Telecommunications stocks in the S.& P. 500 were up 2 percent, and energy stocks were up 3 percent. Among the biggest winners of the day were Pioneer Drilling, which jumped by 6.4 percent, and Noble Energy, which climbed 5.3 percent.
Stocks in the S.& P. 500 are still down 2.4 percent from the end of last week. But on Thursday, the market was ready for a rebound after being whipsawed by the flow of chaotic news from Japan.
''The markets on Wednesday reacted to every bit of information that hit the tapes and a lot of that was contradictory,'' said Tom Porcelli, chief United States economist at RBC Capital Markets. ''From a larger perspective, at least for a moment, a bit of calm has entered the markets.''
On Friday, the Nikkei 225 index was up 1.77 percent at the midday break. After the markets in Japan opened, the United States and other major economies said that they would join Japan in a highly unusual effort to stabilize the value of the yen by intervening in currency markets.
Markets responded immediately by driving down the value of the yen against the dollar, with spot prices trading at 81.45 yen to the dollar Friday morning. The yen had been creeping up since the devastating earthquake and tsunami that battered northeastern Japan last Friday. It had strengthened sharply to 76.53 yen to the dollar in New York on Thursday.
Shares closed higher in Europe on Thursday. The Euro Stoxx 50, a benchmark of blue chips, added 2.4 percent and the DAX gained 2.2 percent in Frankfurt. In London, the FTSE rose 1.75 percent, and the CAC 40 in Paris added 2.4 percent.
As of Thursday, the Nikkei 225 was still down 14 percent from its level before the earthquake.
In the United States, markets were lifted by strong economic news that overshadowed the worries in Japan. First-time claims for unemployment benefits fell to 385,000 last week, which was slightly more than expected.
In addition, a survey from the Federal Reserve of Philadelphia showed that manufacturing in the mid-Atlantic region rose in February to the highest point since January 1984.
The report is ''a reminder that the U.S. economy continues to gain momentum,'' Alan Gayle, senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Investments in Richmond, Va., told The Associated Press. ''Economic growth leads to more spending, more production and ultimately rising profits,'' he said. ''That's what investors buy: rising profits.''
Inflation, however, edged higher in February. The Consumer Price Index rose 0.5 percent last month, also more than forecast. Core prices, which exclude food and fuel costs, rose 0.2 percent.
The rally in stocks led to a sell-off in bonds. The price for 10-year benchmark Treasury bonds fell 19/32, to 103 3/32, while the yields rose to 3.26 percent from 3.19 percent late Wednesday.
Oil prices rose to more than $100 a barrel again, gaining $3.44 to settle at $101.42 in New York, as turmoil continued in North Africa and the Middle East. Gold prices also rose $4.84, to $1,403.72 an ounce.
Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region on Friday, the S.& P./ASX index in Australia gained 1 percent in morning trading, and the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong rose 0.46 percent in early trading.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); TSUNAMIS (73%); EARTHQUAKES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); NOBLE ENERGY INC (54%); PIONEER ENERGY SERVICES CORP (54%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (52%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); NBL (NYSE) (54%); PES (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (54%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



412 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Report Urges Even Higher Global Retirement Ages

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
PARIS -- Retirement ages in advanced economies will have to rise more than currently planned if countries hope to cover the increase in costs caused by aging populations, a global economic organization warned Thursday. 
Angel Gurria, secretary general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said that more ''fiscally and socially responsible'' measures would be needed to avoid ''a resurgence of old-age poverty in the future.''
He added, ''This risk is heightened by growing earnings inequality in many countries, which will feed through into greater inequality in retirement.''
In a report, the organization said that by 2050, the average age in industrialized countries for drawing pensions would reach 65 for both sexes. This represents an increase of about 1.5 years for men and 2.5 years for women from current levels.
But the trend toward later retirement and other recent changes, like promoting private pensions, will still not cover the assumed increase in liabilities as the working population shrinks and the number of retirees climbs.
The report, ''Pensions at a Glance 2011,'' said life expectancy was rising faster than the increase in pension ages, by an average of two years for men and 1.5 years for women.
The size of the working-age population in the 34 countries belonging to the organization will peak around 2015 and fall more than 10 percent by 2050, meaning that a smaller group of workers will be supporting a larger number of retirees.
Thus, financial sustainability for retirement systems ''is not guaranteed unless pension ages are increased beyond current plans in most of the O.E.C.D.,'' the report said.
Pension changes in member countries since the early 1990s have already helped to cut estimated future pension payouts by 20 percent on average, the report said. The main tool has been to push up the retirement age.
In October, French lawmakers agreed to lift the minimum age for retirement to 62 from 60, and for a full pension to 67 from 65, despite protests. Britain plans to raise its retirement age to 68 starting in 2044, from 65 now. Germany has agreed to increase its retirement age in steps to 67, from 65, by 2029. In the United States, the retirement age is 66 and will rise to 67 by 2022.
In the organization's region, public pensions remain the ''cornerstone'' of old age incomes, accounting for 60 percent on average. The other 40 percent is made up almost equally of income from work and from private pensions and other savings.
As public benefits continue to be reduced, private sources will increasingly need to fill the gap, the report said.
The basic state pension provision varies widely across the organization.
In Britain, the full basic state pension for a single person was $:90.70 ($146), a week in 2008, equivalent to nearly 14 percent of average weekly earnings. In the Netherlands, the equivalent was about 265 euros ($371), a week, or 29 percent of average earnings.
''Higher pension ages are only part of the answer,'' Mr. Gurria said. ''Countries need to do more to fight discrimination, to provide training opportunities for older workers and to improve their working conditions. This would help employers adapt to a grayer work force.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AGING (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (90%); AGING TRENDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); TRENDS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (74%) FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); GERMANY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



413 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1426 words

PERSON: Richard Wirthlin 

HEADLINE: Richard Wirthlin, 80, Pollster and Reagan Adviser, Dies

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

 BODY:
Richard B. Wirthlin, the political consultant and pollster who for 20 years helped Ronald Reagan shape his political message and strategies, both in presidential campaigns and in the White House, died on Wednesday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 80.
The cause was renal failure, his family said.
A Brigham Young University economist turned pollster, Mr. Wirthlin worked with Reagan from 1968 through the end of his presidency, becoming a senior adviser and member of his inner circle while running a public-opinion research company.
He described his role in a 2004 memoir, ''The Greatest Communicator: What Ronald Reagan Taught Me About Politics, Leadership, and Life.'' Reagan, he wrote, ''wasn't interested in being told what to say -- he intrinsically knew that. He was interested in the most effective way to convey his message.'' 
Mr. Wirthlin supplied that help at a crucial moment in the 1976 Republican primaries, when Reagan's conservative challenge to President Gerald R. Ford for the nomination was flagging. Ford planned to transfer control of the Panama Canal to Panama, and Mr. Wirthlin seized on the issue and pressed Reagan to emphasize his opposition to it.
''Control of the Panama Canal symbolized American autonomy and might,'' Mr. Wirthlin said in the memoir, written with Wynton C. Hall.
The canal issue helped revive the campaign. Reagan began winning primaries by thundering, ''We built it, we paid for it, it's ours, and we are going to keep it.''
Reagan ultimately lost the nomination (and the winner of the election, Jimmy Carter, ultimately transferred control of the canal to Panama), but he had laid the groundwork for a successful run four years later, when Mr. Wirthlin would again play a critical role.
In 1980, Mr. Wirthlin, as chief campaign strategist, used polling to help Reagan build a winning coalition that included blue-collar Democrats and evangelical Christians. His advice in frequent memorandums -- one was titled ''Seven Conditions of Victory'' -- were closely followed. In March, when Reagan, a former governor of California, had emerged as the almost-certain nominee, Mr. Wirthlin wrote:
''We must position the Governor, in these early stages, so that he is viewed as less dangerous in the foreign affairs area, more competent in the economic area, more compassionate on the domestic issues and less of a conservative zealot than his opponents and the press now paint him to be.''
One important Wirthlin strategy early in the general election campaign was to use television ads to establish Reagan's qualifications, citing his record in California, before turning to attack President Carter directly, a tactic many in the campaign wanted to adopt quickly.
Mr. Wirthlin also encouraged Reagan to push ''pocketbook issues'' and to define the election as a referendum on Mr. Carter's leadership in economically troubled times. The strategy produced a pivotal moment when Reagan asked during a debate with Mr. Carter, ''Are you better off today than you were four years ago?''
Reagan captured the presidency with ease, and Mr. Wirthlin went on to supervise what was known internally as ''The First 90 Days Project,'' a blueprint of policy goals and the political strategies to achieve them. Some called the White House operations behind the effort ''the permanent campaign.''
Mr. Wirthlin (Dick Wirthlin to those who knew him) was a regular presence in the Reagan White House, frequently polling and testing the president's speeches with groups holding dial meters to indicate what phrases and emphases they liked or disliked.
Peter Hannaford, a Reagan speechwriter, said in an interview last year that Mr. Wirthlin's importance to Reagan grew in the White House. ''It was much more than campaigns,'' he added. ''It was ongoing advice on the things to emphasize.''
Mr. Wirthlin advised Reagan for his entire eight years in office, bringing him good news (the public overwhelmingly supported him when he fired striking air traffic controllers in 1981, for example) and bad (the public largely did not believe him when he said he did not know about the sale of arms to Iran to finance the Nicaraguan contras in 1987).
Reagan was said to be reluctant to make decisions based solely on opinion polls. But Mr. Wirthlin proved essential in taking what Reagan had decided to do -- or what he was leaning toward doing -- and seeing how it might play with the public. He used focus groups, for example, to test American reactions to the themes of speeches Reagan was to give a during a visit to Moscow in 1988.
In an interview for this obituary last year, Mr. Wirthlin said he was most proud of having helped Reagan, ''in a very modest way,'' set the stage for arms talks with the Soviet Union by first gaining Americans' trust that he would negotiate from a position of strength, having earlier taken ''a very strong position early vis-a-vis the Soviets'' when he called the Soviet Union an ''evil empire.''
Mr. Wirthlin, who developed a background in statistics in college, began polling in 1964 when a political scientist he knew asked for help with his own business. ''I helped him and found that this was something that I enjoyed,'' he said in the interview, adding, ''Pretty soon I had more business than I could handle, and I decided to set up a firm.''
Barry Goldwater, the former Republican senator from Arizona, was an early customer when he ran to regain his Senate seat in 1968 after his crushing defeat in the 1964 presidential campaign against Lyndon B. Johnson. He recommended Mr. Wirthlin to Reagan, who had been elected governor of California in 1966 and had made a weak bid for the 1968 Republican presidential nomination.
Mr. Wirthlin had a low opinion of Reagan at the time, thinking of him as ''a heavy-handed, right-wing Hollywood actor,'' as he wrote in his memoir. But in meeting Reagan he changed his mind. ''I found Reagan's belief in his innate optimism paralleled my own,'' he wrote.
Mr. Wirthlin was measured in his analyses of his polling work. After the 1980 election, he cautioned conservatives against declaring the results a definitive swing to the right. He told a conference at Harvard that the election was more a referendum on President Carter than it was a right-left split. ''Ideology did not cut in the vote decision,'' he said. ''The electorate still viewed Reagan as considerably more conservative than themselves, and they did so right through the election.''
Richard Bitner Wirthlin was born in Salt Lake City on March 15, 1931, the son of Joseph L. and Madeline Bitner Wirthlin, who had a farm. His father was presiding bishop of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, responsible for its business side and temporal affairs like the Mormons' welfare program. Richard won letters in football and track in high school.
He earned his bachelor's and master's degrees at the University of Utah and his Ph.D. at the University of California, Berkeley. He said he became interested in economics and politics while doing Mormon missionary work in Switzerland and Austria in 1951.
Mr. Wirthlin's company, originally based in Los Angeles and successively named Decision Making Information, the Wirthlin Group and Wirthlin Worldwide, also did polling for Margaret Thatcher, the British prime minister, among other political clients. The company was sold to Harris Interactive in 2004, and Mr. Wirthlin served on its board until retiring in 2007.
He was active in the Mormon Church throughout his adult life, serving as a bishop and helping to oversee the church's day-to-day affairs. He conducted a survey for the church measuring Americans' attitudes toward Mormons.
Mr. Wirthlin is survived by his wife, the former Jeralie Chandler, whom he married in 1956; four sons, Richard, Mark, Michael and John; three daughters, Mary Ann Grant, Carolyn Crandall and Jill Tyrell; a sister, Gwendolyn Cannon; a brother, David; 27 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. Another daughter, Susan Illene Wirthlin, died in 1991.
Mr. Wirthlin's reputation transcended party lines. Peter D. Hart, a Democratic pollster who collaborated on projects with him, said Mr. Wirthlin was important in the field for showing how to integrate different kinds of data -- polling, census, political -- to measure the electorate's opinions and moods.
''He was a pioneer in terms of data analysis and statistical analysis,'' Mr. Hart said. ''His ability to take a huge volume of information and to make it important, both thematically and strategically, was agenda-setting for those who were to follow him in the polling field.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard B. Wirthlin, in his office with charts, in 1982. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE TAMES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); RELIGION (61%)

COMPANY: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (58%)

RONALD REAGAN (93%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%) PANAMA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



414 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: F.D.I.C. Sues Ex-Chief Of Big Bank That Failed

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation sued the former chief executive of Washington Mutual and two of his top lieutenants, accusing them of reckless lending before the 2008 collapse of what was the nation's largest savings bank.
The civil lawsuit, seeking to recover $900 million, is the first against a major bank chief executive by the regulator and follows escalating public pressure to hold bankers accountable for actions leading up to the financial crisis.
Kerry K. Killinger, Washington Mutual's longtime chief executive, led the bank on a ''lending spree'' knowing that the housing market was in a bubble and failed to put in place the proper risk management systems and internal controls, according to a complaint filed on Thursday in federal court in Seattle. 
David C. Schneider, WaMu's president of home lending, and Stephen J. Rotella, its chief operation officer, were also accused of negligence for their roles in developing and leading the bank's aggressive growth strategy.
''They focused on short-term gains to increase their own compensation, with reckless disregard for WaMu's long-term safety and soundness,'' the agency said in the 63-page complaint. ''The F.D.I.C. brings this complaint to hold these highly paid senior executives, who were chiefly responsible for WaMu's higher-risk home lending program, accountable for the resulting losses.''
In addition, the complaint says that Mr. Killinger and his wife, Linda, set up two trusts in August 2008 to keep his homes in California and Washington out of the reach of the bank's creditors. Months earlier, in the spring of 2008, Mr. Rotella and his wife, Esther, made similar arrangements. The F.D.I.C. is seeking to freeze the assets of both couples and named the wives as defendants in the lawsuit.
In unusually vigorous denials, Mr. Killinger and Mr. Rotella came out swinging against the F.D.I.C. Mr. Killinger said the agency's claims were ''baseless and unworthy of the government'' and its legal conclusions were ''political theater.'' Mr. Rotella said the action ''runs counter to the facts about my relatively short time at the company,'' calling it ''unfair and an abuse of power.'' He said the trust was for normal estate planning purposes and was set up before the bank's downfall. Mr. Schneider, who is represented by the same lawyer as Mr. Rotella, did not release a public statement.
Although the F.D.I.C. is mainly known for its role in shuttering failed lenders, the agency has a legal obligation to bring lawsuits against former directors and officers when it finds evidence of wrongdoing.
So far, the F.D.I.C. has brought claims against 158 individuals at about 20 small banks that failed during the recent crisis. The agency is seeking a total of more than $2.6 billion in damages. But the $900 million case against the former WaMu officials is its biggest and most prominent action to date.
Federal regulators have come under fire for failing to hold executives responsible for their involvement in the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Last fall, the Securities and Exchange Commission reached a settlement with Angelo R. Mozilo, the former chief executive of Countrywide Financial, to pay a $22.5 million penalty over misleading investors about the financial condition of the giant mortgage lender.
The New York attorney general's office has brought a civil suit against Kenneth D. Lewis over improper disclosures related to the 2008 rescue of Merrill Lynch by Bank of America, of which he was chief executive.
But several investigations into the actions of executives at the American International Group, Lehman Brothers and other financial firms have stalled -- especially criminal cases, which have a much higher burden of proof.
The F.D.I.C., meanwhile, has been under intense pressure to recoup as much money as possible on behalf of Washington Mutual bondholders, who were outraged over its sale in September 2008. Critics said the agency moved too quickly to seize the troubled bank, and then allowed JPMorgan Chase to snap up its assets and branches for a mere $1.8 billion. Ever since, they have unleashed a wave of litigation and asked lawmakers to hold hearings about the controversial rescue.
In his statement, Mr. Rotella suggested the lawsuit was a way for the F.D.I.C. to extract a windfall from directors' and officers' insurers, which would want to settle any claims.
The F.D.I.C. complaint says that Mr. Killinger and his top lieutenants took ''extreme and historically unprecedented risks'' as the savings bank plunged headlong into risky mortgage lending near the height of the housing boom. As experienced bankers, they should have tempered this growth strategy and improved risk management systems to reduce potential losses if the real estate market fell, according to the complaint.
Instead, according to the complaint, they ignored the warnings of the bank's risk managers and sank deeper into the risky subprime lending and hot real estate markets, like Florida and California. Indeed, the complaint lists more than 26 areas in which they acted recklessly, including a failure to put adequate limits on the concentration of mortgages and employee compensation programs that encouraged high loan volume at the expense of loan quality. The complaint quotes Washington Mutual's own chief risk officer as telling Mr. Killinger, just weeks before it was seized, that the ''risk chromosome'' was missing from the bank's DNA.
In lengthy statements, Mr. Killinger and Mr. Rotella disputed the basic thrust of the F.D.I.C.'s case and reiterated their belief that Washington Mutual was prematurely and unfairly seized. They also insisted that they behaved prudently, acted with constant oversight of banking regulators and took strong action to shore up the bank's finances when market conditions worsened in late 2007 and early 2008.
''Those initiatives -- once applauded by the regulators as diligent and responsible management -- have, through the alchemy of Washington, D.C., politics been turned into allegations of gross negligence,'' Mr. Killinger said in a statement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kerry K. Killinger, who led Washington Mutual as it ballooned and imploded, called claims against him ''political theater.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (76%); NEGLIGENCE (73%); ESTATE PLANNING (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (96%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (96%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (96%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (90%)

PERSON: KERRY K KILLINGER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (78%) WASHINGTON, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



415 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Palin's Successors (Republicans Too) Seek to Dismantle Her Energy Legacy

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
JUNEAU, Alaska -- While every online swipe from former Gov. Sarah Palin still draws national attention and stirs fresh speculation about her political ambitions, back home she is no longer quite so imposing.
Even as she casts herself as an energy expert and is quick to attack the Obama administration on oil and gas issues, the two most prominent energy policies she put in place as governor of Alaska face new challenges less than two years after she left office.
Gov. Sean Parnell, Ms. Palin's fellow Republican and former lieutenant, has announced that it is his top priority to undo parts of major oil tax increases that Ms. Palin made law. He argues that high state taxes, not just federal regulations, are preventing oil companies from exploring new drilling in Alaska and therefore jeopardizing future state revenues.
''Lower taxes means more competitive,'' Mr. Parnell said last week. ''It means more jobs.'' 
And the project Ms. Palin once portrayed as her principal legislative triumph, a plan to build a 1,700-mile natural gas pipeline that she said would transform the economy of Alaska and contribute to America's domestic energy supply, seems an increasingly distant dream, undercut by low gas prices and more practical projects in other states.
''She made it an issue,'' said Mike Chenault, the Republican speaker of the State House, who has sponsored a bill that would end Ms. Palin's pipeline plan if firm evidence of progress is not documented by this summer. ''That was the way that Alaska was going to move forward. As of yet, we haven't, in my opinion, moved one step forward.''
Ms. Palin's policies may well survive, at least for this legislative session. Mr. Parnell still supports her gas pipeline plan, and even some Republican lawmakers say they are wary of lowering taxes on oil companies without assurances that it will lead to more production.
Strikingly, some of the lawmakers most dedicated to preserving Ms. Palin's signature achievements come from a constituency she rarely courts nationally but one that was crucial to her in Alaska: Democrats.
''She hasn't said boo to help us protect this thing since it's come under assault,'' said State Representative Les Gara, a Democrat from Anchorage, referring to the oil taxes Governor Parnell wants to alter.
That is not to say that lawmakers are clamoring for her return. Elected by a wide margin in 2006, Ms. Palin was wildly popular among voters and held sway in the Legislature. By the time she abruptly resigned, in July 2009, her approval rating among voters was in decline and both Democratic and Republican legislators accused her of being detached and imperious.
Ms. Palin was never fond of Juneau, the capital -- her husband once encouraged the House speaker to pursue moving the seat of government closer to Anchorage -- and it feels as if she has been long gone, preserved in an official photograph and in what remains of her legislation.
Mr. Parnell replaced most of her closest aides, including many of her advisers on oil and gas issues. He said that he had not consulted with Ms. Palin about his plan to revise oil taxes. ''We need to be nimble with changing times and history,'' he said.
Compared with many states, Alaska is in fine shape in the short run. It is sitting on a $12 billion revenue surplus, a sum driven directly by the high price of oil. Taxes on oil production provide nearly 90 percent of state revenue. Some of the surplus comes from the increased tax on oil production, tied to the price of oil, that Ms. Palin supported in 2007. But not everyone is willing to give her credit for helping to create a nest egg for Alaska.
''We're probably the most fiscally sound state in the union,'' said Bert Stedman, a Republican who is co-chairman of the Senate Finance Committee and one of the Legislature's most influential members. ''I'd say she had little to nothing to do with it.''
Even Ms. Palin, who did not respond to a request for comment, does not boast these days about raising taxes on oil companies.
''It's this fundamental achievement that's at odds with the political persona to which it's attached,'' said State Senator Hollis French, a Democrat who worked with Ms. Palin on oil and gas issues.
Democrats say that the oil tax increase was their idea to begin with, and that Ms. Palin rallied to their cause amid a wave of populism after a scandal linking lawmakers to the oil industry. (At least two guilty verdicts in a federal investigation have since been thrown out based on questions over prosecutorial misconduct.)
Mr. Stedman, meanwhile, said the state was in good shape in part because lawmakers in both parties -- armed with the surplus -- pushed through major spending projects that have limited the recession's impact.
Still others, like Governor Parnell, say that while high oil taxes have lifted revenues, they are causing oil companies to hesitate before investing in new wells on the North Slope, where production has been declining steadily since 1988.
Mr. Parnell noted that Alaska, which ranks second in domestic oil production, after Texas, is projected to fall to fourth within a decade. ''We've got jobs leaving Alaska going to North Dakota,'' he said.
The proposed natural gas pipeline is supposed to help the state shift from relying on oil to relying on a different, cleaner fuel, which the state has in abundance. That was at the center of Ms. Palin's campaign when she ran for governor in 2006; her slogan was ''New Energy for Alaska.'' Two years later, in September 2008, when she spoke as a vice-presidential candidate at the Republican National Convention, she made the project sound as if it was under construction.
''We began a nearly $40 billion natural gas pipeline to help lead America to energy independence,'' she said at the convention.
Yet the pipeline was only in the planning stages. The Legislature, prodded by Ms. Palin, had just agreed to provide $500 million to a Canadian company to secure gas suppliers and apply for federal permits. Now, two and a half years later, the state is scheduled to reimburse the company, TransCanada, $185 million in the current fiscal year and $160 million in the next.
Some lawmakers are frustrated. TransCanada missed a self-imposed deadline for securing agreements with companies to ship gas from the North Slope. In December, the United States Energy Information Administration projected that the pipeline would still not be in service by as late as 2035.
''There's frustration because a lot of people thought in '07 and '08, if we do this we'll get it,'' Larry Persily, the federal coordinator for the Alaska Pipeline Project, said of Ms. Palin's plan.
Mr. Persily, who once worked for Governor Palin, was named to his position by President Obama. He said the pipeline could still become reality, particularly if the nation moved away from coal and the demand for gas rose -- and if the state modified Ms. Palin's plan to assure gas providers of a predictable tax structure.
''Certainly it helped, but it was oversold as the global solution,'' he said of Ms. Palin's plan. ''Not that Palin was the first politician to oversell something -- she just did a good job of it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Texas delegate showed support for oil drilling in Alaska on his hat at the 2008 Republican National Convention in St. Paul, Minn., where Sarah Palin, who had been chosen as the vice-presidential candidate, spoke about energy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN GRESS/REUTERS
OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A17)
 Gov. Sean Parnell, Sarah Palin's former lieutenant, says that high state taxes keep oil companies from exploring new drilling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BECKY BOHRER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); TAX LAW (74%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (72%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (94%); SEAN PARNELL (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (93%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (96%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



416 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Interests of Saudi Arabia and Iran Collide, With the U.S. in the Middle

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The brutal crackdown in Bahrain poses the greatest Middle East democracy dilemma yet to the Obama administration, deepening a rift with its most important Arab ally, Saudi Arabia, while potentially strengthening the influence of its biggest nemesis, Iran.
Relations between the United States and Saudi Arabia have chilled to their coldest since the American invasion of Iraq in 2003. Saudi officials, still angry that President Obama abandoned President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt in the face of demonstrations, ignored American requests not to send troops into Bahrain to help crush Shiite-led protests there. A tense telephone call between Mr. Obama and King Abdullah on Wednesday, Arab officials said, failed to ease the tensions. 
''King Abdullah has been clear that Saudi Arabia will never allow Shia rule in Bahrain -- never,'' an Arab official who was briefed on the talks said. He said King Abdullah's willingness to listen to the Obama administration had ''evaporated'' since Mr. Mubarak was forced from office.
The Saudi position is rooted in the royal family's belief that a Shiite uprising next door in Bahrain could spread and embolden Saudi Arabia's own minority Shiite population and increase Iranian influence in the kingdom, a fear that American officials share. But where Mr. Obama and King Abdullah have parted ways, administration officials say, is on how to handle the crisis.
American officials want Saudi Arabia and Bahrain to allow political reforms that could lead to more representation for Shiites under Sunni rule. During his telephone conversation with the Saudi king, Mr. Obama called for an end to the violence that has accelerated in Bahrain over the last few days.
He asked for a ''political process as the only way to peacefully address the legitimate grievances of Bahrainis and to lead to a Bahrain that is stable, just, more unified and responsive to its people,'' according to Jay Carney, the White House press secretary.
But ''there's not too much listening going on,'' a senior administration official said, noting that Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton were forced to cancel visits to Saudi Arabia in recent days because the king was not willing to host them. (The official reason given was that he was ill.) ''There appears to be a great deal of annoyance still,'' added the official, speaking only on condition of anonymity.
A senior administration official noted Thursday that some Shiite opposition leaders had vowed not to respond in kind to the violent crackdown by the government, and to remain peaceful, raising hopes among members of the Obama administration that the Shiite opposition has not become radicalized and might still be amenable to political dialogue. ''It suggests to me that the radicalization on the part of the moderate Shia has not yet occurred,'' the official said.
But, he added, ''Without question, there are people on the extreme end of the opposition who have been in touch with Iran.'' He said that the Obama administration had tried to convey to its allies in the Persian Gulf that the governments were most at risk if they approached the unrest only from a standpoint of their own government security.
For the administration, the stakes are higher in Bahrain and Saudi Arabia than in any other Arab country facing unrest now.
''In terms of concrete American national security interests, Bahrain-Saudi Arabia is the place,'' said Robert Malley, the Middle East and North Africa program director with the International Crisis Group. Saudi Arabia is the third largest foreign supplier of oil to the United States, and Bahrain is home to the United States Navy's Fifth Fleet.
Even if the United States could wean itself from dependency on Saudi oil, the kingdom, home to the world's largest petroleum reserves, still can rock global markets and slow economic recovery in the United States and around the world.
Beyond that, the United States has long viewed Saudi Arabia as a last bulwark against an ascendant Iran in a crucial region, and does not want Tehran stepping in to back Shiites in Bahrain or Saudi Arabia.
But where the United States and the Saudis split is over how to prevent Iran from gaining traction. While American officials say the Saudi and Bahraini governments can head off trouble by making political reforms, the Saudis believe that political reforms would only open the door to greater instability.
''Our message to Saudi Arabia is that if you want to avoid the fate of Mubarak, you need to move toward genuine and gradual reform,'' said Mr. Malley of the Crisis Group. ''But what the Saudis are hearing instead is that reform is actually the path to Mubarak's fate.''
In many ways, Mr. Malley and other Middle East experts say, the crisis in Bahrain and Saudi Arabia makes dealing with Egypt and Tunisia look easy. While Egypt is another crucial American ally, Mr. Obama could publicly side with the protesters in Tahrir Square without roiling global oil markets or inviting in Iran.
The Obama administration has vested a lot of its hopes of resolving the conflict in Bahrain with the crown prince, Sheik Salman bin Hamad al-Khalifa, who is leading government efforts to start a dialogue with the protesters.
The prince, a 1992 graduate of American University in Washington, was described in a 2009 diplomatic cable made public by WikiLeaks as ''very Western in his approach.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); IRAQ WAR (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (70%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAHRAIN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); EGYPT (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



417 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Valley Backs Effort to Help Foreign Entrepreneurs

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
A New Zealand entrepreneur seemed to have everything lined up for the start of his social networking venture in the United States. He had raised $430,000, hired 14 employees and leased an office just a few miles away from the famed Sand Hill Road in Silicon Valley.
He had everything - except a visa. With his application still pending in December, he had to leave the country. Since then, many of his employees have quit, and his money has been depleted. 
''The continual waiting is frustrating,'' said the entrepreneur, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because his visa application was being reviewed. ''I don't know when I'm going to get approved - it could be in two or three months, or more.''
A group of lawmakers and prominent technology investors are trying to ease bureaucratic hurdles for thousands of foreign-born entrepreneurs as part of a broader effort to create jobs in the United States and spur innovation.
A new bill - introduced on Monday by Senators John Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat; Richard Lugar, an Indiana Republican; and Mark Udall, a Colorado Democrat - aims to give two-year visas to foreign entrepreneurs if they secure at least $100,000 in financing from qualified investors. After two years, the start-up must have at least five employees and $500,000.
''In this budget climate, we are all looking for fiscally responsible ways to create jobs,'' Senator Kerry said. ''The Start-Up Visa Act meets that need.''
The issue has become a rallying cause for the technology industry, an area in which foreign entrepreneurs have played a central role for years. From 1990 to 2005, immigrants founded about 25 percent of the public companies backed by venture capital, according to a study by the National Foundation for American Policy, a research group in Washington. The companies include stalwarts like Google, Yahoo and eBay.
But there's a growing concern in the technology community that the country's immigration policies are keeping talent out, at a time when China and other emerging markets are becoming more attractive. The bill has the support of more than 160 industry investors, including Brad Feld, who started the Foundry Group; Fred Wilson, a Twitter investor; Reid Hoffman, the founder of LinkedIn; and Shervin Pishevar, an angel investor.
Many have their own experience navigating the visa process. Mr. Pishevar - who was born in Iran and became a United States citizen after his parents were granted asylum during the Iranian Revolution - has become a major advocate for immigrant founders. He recently helped Andrey Ternovskiy, the Russian-born founder of the chat service Chatroulette, secure a visa in about four months.
Despite growing support, the bill faces some challenges. An earlier version never made it out of committee last year. It most likely took a back seat to the divisive health care bill, midterm elections and the controversy surrounding immigration reform, says Mr. Feld of the Foundry Group.
But Mr. Feld and others are more optimistic this time. Although the bill hasn't changed substantially, the conversation in Washington has evolved.
''In politics, the language of entrepreneurship didn't really exist until this year,'' said Mr. Feld, who is also a board member of Zynga, a social gaming start-up. ''The language about creating companies was all around small businesses - some politicians didn't understand what we meant by high-growth start-ups.''
With the unemployment rate at 9.5 percent, legislators are paying more attention to engines of job creation. Some of that focus is shifting to technology start-ups, many of which are raising serious capital and increasing staff significantly. The social shopping site Groupon, for example, has ballooned to 5,900 employees from 124 in less than two years. The team became so large that the monthly staff meetings were moved from the Chicago headquarters to a local church.
As the start-ups have grown, so has the influence of Silicon Valley in Washington. Earlier this year, the White House pledged $2 billion for early-stage businesses, as part of an initiative called Startup America. Steve Case, AOL's co-founder, is among those heading up the effort, which is intended to encourage entrepreneurship in conjunction with private institutions.
Since February 2010, the State Department has coordinated several trips with technology leaders to countries like Russia, Indonesia and Egypt to learn about innovation in emerging markets. Closer to home, several top White House officials have made the trek to Silicon Valley to connect with the industry's elite.
In the most visible moment, President Obama visited the house of a long-time tech investor, John Doerr, in February, where he dined with Facebook's founder, Mark Zuckerberg, and Apple's chief executive, Steven P. Jobs. Among other topics, they discussed how the government could strengthen its relationship with the industry.
''For too long, Silicon Valley thought it was immune to Washington policy, that we could innovate on our own,'' said Mr. Pishevar, a founder of the Social Gaming Network. ''Now, we realize that we have to engage, that we have to be part of the policy-making process.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senators John Kerry, above left, and Richard Lugar introduced a bill with Senator Mark Udall, left, to give two-year visas to foreign-born entrepreneurs, an issue that has become a rallying cause for the technology industry. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED WATKINS/ABC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); BUDGETS (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (61%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (91%); MARK UDALL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



418 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: 100-Day Spotlight Shines on Preckwinkle

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren is a columnist for the Chicago News Cooperative.
Toni Preckwinkle, the Cook County board president, has improbably bonded with Napoleon Bonaparte and Franklin D. Roosevelt.
On Wednesday, that bright but often dour soul turned to a common artificial political and journalism construct with a 20-page brochure assessing --flatteringly so -- her first 100 days in the office.
Richard Norton Smith, a historian, suggested to me that the origin of this irrelevant measure is the Hundred Days of Napoleon, the period between his return from exile on Elba and the restoration of King Louis XVIII. It's also often linked to F.D.R.'s first 100 days, or the length of his first Congressional session, which was distinctly more successful than Napoleon's return. 
Like Mayor-elect Rahm Emanuel, Ms. Preckwinkle faces many challenges, mostly financial and cultural. She inherited deficits, stratospheric underfunded pension liabilities and productivity and efficiency norms that might compare unfavorably with those in the old, unlamented communist regimes of Eastern Europe.
She sort of oversees a fat, at times somnolent and corrupt 23,500-employee social service agency known as Cook County government. The budget tops $3 billion. She deals with many of our poorest citizens, especially via the county jail and a sprawling health care system, with which she now has only indirect involvement.
She only sort of oversees her empire because the health system was spun off, due to mismanagement, to a largely independent board. Her hands are further tied by a universe of separate fiefs and tax-collecting bodies, including the assessor, state's attorney, recorder of deeds and real estate Board of Review, among others.
With the de facto excising of the hospitals and clinics, about $1 billion in budget allocations slipped from the board president's mitts. So, as Ms. Preckwinkle acknowledges, she now has direct authority over a mere 8 percent of the budget.
To this extent, Mr. Emanuel is far better off. He can tell someone who is incompetent running a major department to shape up or ship out in ways Ms. Preckwinkle cannot. He doesn't have those same independent duchies.
He does have a City Council to confront, but at this point the primary hurdle is probably one guy, Alderman Edward Burke. There are not whole voting blocs likely to even exhibit passive resistance toward Mr. Emanuel in the way Ms. Preckwinkle will confront ''take-a-hike-Toni'' recalcitrance from autonomous elected department chiefs.
And, as pointed out by Mike Quigley, a North Side congressman and former County Board member, many voters have divergent relationships to city and county government. Ties to the city are stronger in connection with visible and essential services, like garbage pick-up and snow removal, and voters may just not care much about folks in the jail or about the county hospitals.
Ms. Preckwinkle's report-card announcement got off both 10 minutes late and atmospherically errant, though she did at the end graciously shake hands with assembled reporters. She had commended her top aides, lined up behind her, for their ''considerable sacrifice,'' supposedly in some cases taking ''considerable pay cuts'' to work for her.
Those are kudos she should scrap, given the economy. While she's voluntarily taking a 10 percent cut from her $170,000 pay, salaries of some of those who stood behind her are $181,867, $172,519 and $168,501. Her definition of sacrifice is expansive.
She has done a solid job trimming the budget so far, even if relying on what she concedes are a few onetime gambits. As for her grading of 33 campaign promises, she is to be commended.
Unlike most other politicians, she won't force us media hacks to Google what she actually said during her election quest; it's all there, even if sprinkled with self-serving encomiums ('' 'You inspired everyone that our county will have a brighter future.' -- Ralph F. , constituent'').
My favorites are her intentions to ''establish a new performance management culture'' and ''share services across county agencies, for both back-office and front-office functions.''
She's on to something, even if I wonder about the political will to heed any incisive conclusions from the respected Boston Consulting Group after a pro bono inspection, or to go beyond streamlining across agencies.
There are nearly 8,467 government bodies in Illinois -- more than the number of licensed barber shops (5,583) or dental hygienists (7,802). It's nuts. Reinvention means going beyond county departments to cross traditional government lines.
For sure, Ms. Preckwinkle and Mr. Emanuel have reason to commiserate, but also to apply their ample intellects to forge efficiencies via collaboration among multiple city and suburban jurisdictions. It's desperately needed even if it will take far more than 100 days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); MAYORS (76%); CITIES (73%); HISTORY (71%); HOSPITALS (70%); REAL ESTATE (70%); HEALTH CARE (65%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (64%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (63%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (63%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



419 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: In Obama Visit, Brazil's Leader Aims to Mend Fences

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
BRASILIA -- Two years ago, President Obama energetically reached out in London to shake the hand of Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, who was then the president of Brazil. ''Here's my man, right here,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I love this guy. He's the most popular politician on earth.''
This weekend, in his first trip to South America since taking office, Mr. Obama will encounter a noticeably different style of leader in Dilma Rousseff, Brazil's first female president. But while Mr. Obama openly admired Mr. da Silva's ample political skills, he may find the United States has more to gain from a Brazil led by the no-nonsense Ms. Rousseff, analysts said.
Less than three months into the job, Ms. Rousseff, once thought to be a potential puppet of Mr. da Silva, has swiftly moved out of the shadow of her mentor. In doing so, Ms. Rousseff, his former chief of staff, has shown she is more likely to pursue foreign policy driven by economic goals than by a desire for the kind of global grandeur that Mr. da Silva often sought, potentially mending some fences with the United States. 
Mr. Obama's trip comes at a time when Brazil's rising economic clout is forcing the United States to stand up and take notice, not least because China has. Brazil, now the world's seventh largest economy, has become an increasingly important trading partner for the United States, whose exports to the South American country are growing twice as fast as overall exports of American goods and services, the White House said.
After a year of strain between Brazil and the United States -- mostly because of Mr. da Silva's efforts to wade into the contentious standoff between the West and Iran over its nuclear program by seeking to avoid further sanctions when the United States was pushing for them -- Ms. Rousseff seems determined to patch up the relationship.
''Lula seemed intent on proving a point -- don't underestimate Brazil -- at times at the risk of alienating Obama,'' said Julia E. Sweig, director for Latin American studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. Ms. Rousseff, she added, ''can now reap the benefits by forging a more productive relationship with respect, but without the drama.''
She said, ''For no-drama Obama, that style could produce tangible benefits for both countries.''
Mr. Obama is scheduled to land in Brasilia on Saturday, the first stop of a three-country, four-day tour of Latin America. After meeting with Ms. Rousseff here, he plans to tour a recently ''pacified'' slum in Rio de Janeiro and give a speech there, before traveling to Chile and El Salvador.
The White House has stressed that the trip coincides with Mr. Obama's domestic agenda of promoting integration in the region as a way to stimulate jobs at home. Ms. Sweig said the president was likely to use it to ''showcase the democratic stability and growing prosperity of the Americas as a whole at a time when the Middle East is in flux.''
Ms. Rousseff's personal story of torture and imprisonment during Brazil's dictatorship has informed a determination to adopt a stronger stance on human rights in Iran and elsewhere than her predecessor did. American officials have welcomed the shift.
She promised during a speech in January commemorating the Holocaust that her government would be a ''tireless defender of the values of equality, human dignity and respect for human rights.'' In Argentina, she met with Mothers and Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo, the women who symbolize the long search for truth about loved ones ''disappeared'' during Argentina's dictatorship.
Ms. Rousseff has also indicated she wants to improve trade relations with the United States, saying she would reopen bidding on a multibillion-dollar contract to supply fighter jets, giving the American company Boeing a chance to land a deal that, under Mr. da Silva, seemed destined for a French company.
And while she was elected last October with the unbridled support of Mr. da Silva, a former union leader who became one of Brazil's most popular and charismatic presidents, she has refused to negotiate with unions demanding a higher minimum salary increase than she proposed. She has also put forward about $30 billion in budget cuts.
''No one sees her as Lula's protegee any longer,'' said Amaury de Souza, a political analyst in Rio de Janeiro. ''Lula has sort of faded into the background.''
Ms. Rousseff, 63, has eschewed press briefings that became almost a daily event under Mr. da Silva. She does not stand for lateness, or distractions like cellphones in meetings. While Mr. da Silva regularly had lunch at home with his wife while in Brasilia, Ms. Rousseff usually has a quick lunch in her office, sometimes inviting a minister to share a sandwich with her, according to advisers.
Her biggest challenge so far has been trying to clean up a messy fiscal situation she inherited from Mr. da Silva. She has recognized a growing inflation threat to Brazil's economy, Latin America's largest, and so far she has shown some willingness to cut back on spending, including for prized programs like Minha Casa, Minha Vida, which provides housing subsidies.
Critics noted this month that Ms. Rousseff announced a 19 percent increase in financial aid under the government's flagship Bolsa Familia welfare program, which has played a critical role in diminishing poverty.
But she defended the increase, saying, ''A wealthy nation is a nation without indigence,'' echoing one of her campaign slogans.
Brazil also faces increasing pressure to hold down its currency, which has been rising largely because of an inflow of foreign capital. Talk last year by the finance minister, Guido Mantega, of a ''currency war'' that took aim at American monetary policy has continued to simmer since Ms. Rousseff took over.
But under Ms. Rousseff, Brazil has instead hardened its stance on China, its biggest trade partner, calling more loudly for it to raise the value of its currency as cheap imports from China continue to batter Brazil's industrial sector. Those calls echo American demands.
Investors have so far praised Ms. Rousseff, a trained economist, for her handling of the economy.
She ''understands the threat to her administration of inflation, she wants to bring interest rates down and she wants to keep foreign capital flowing in, but understands about the appreciation of the currency,'' said Riordan Roett, director of the Latin American studies program at Johns Hopkins University. ''Lula didn't really understand many of these issues.''
Under Mr. da Silva, Brazil refused to vote for more United Nations sanctions against Iran, inciting the ire of the State Department, which said Brazil had been duped by Iran into a compromise that would buy it time to continue pursuing a nuclear program.
Beyond saying that she would be tougher on Iran on the human rights front, it remained unclear whether Ms. Rousseff would try to match the indefatigable Mr. da Silva's domestic and international travel schedule, which helped raise Brazil's global profile. Or whether she can come close to matching Mr. da Silva's touch with the people.
For now, she is trying to soften her ''Iron Lady'' image. Earlier this month, she prepared an omelet alongside a female host of a popular morning television show, discussing life in the presidential palace.
''It's interesting how people expect a certain weakness from women,'' Ms. Rousseff said. ''I kid that I am a strong woman surrounded by sweet men. A woman in a position of power is seen as a little out of her role.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 25, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Friday about President Obama's planned meetings with Brazil's new president, Dilma Rousseff, during his trip to Latin America this past week misstated her trade policy regarding China. Like Mr. Obama, Ms. Rousseff has been pressing China to raise the value of the Chinese currency, not lower it. (A more expensive Chinese currency would make China's goods more expensive in both the United States and Brazil, where manufacturers complain that cheap Chinese imports are hurting them.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Security aides in an American helicopter near the Christ the Redeemer statue in Rio, which President Obama plans to visit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTONIO SCORZA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (90%); DILMA ROUSSEFF (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



420 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Doubts on Mayor's Forecast Of 4,600 Teacher Layoffs

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN; Robert Gebeloff and Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has been warning that 4,600 city teachers will receive pink slips this spring, as he pushes for legislation in Albany that would eliminate rules requiring that layoffs be based solely on seniority.
That number of layoffs will be necessary, the Bloomberg administration says, because budget cuts will eliminate about 6,100 teaching positions, and only 1,500 teachers will be lost due to attrition, the natural churn of teachers resigning, retiring, being fired or otherwise leaving their jobs.
But over the past two years, the city's teaching force has shrunk by 2,000 to 2,500 each year through attrition, according to Department of Education statistics, suggesting that the city would need to lay off 500 to 1,000 fewer teachers than it has said. 
Carol Kellermann, the president of the Citizens Budget Commission, an independent watchdog group, said the attrition estimate ''struck us as low, based on historical norms.''
And the teachers' union, which has fought dearly to keep seniority protections, called the city's estimates part of a political game to scare people into backing an end to seniority.
''Thank God they are not standing in front of the pearly gates,'' said Michael Mulgrew, the president of the union, the United Federation of Teachers. ''They would all be struck by lightning.''
The questions over the layoff projections come as the city tries to both protect its newest teachers from what it says would be widespread dismissals and to squeeze as much money out of Albany as possible. It is also squabbling with the governor's office over how much the state would cut in city education aid.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's office says its proposed budget would reduce education aid to New York City schools by $579 million. City education officials, however, say that the cut is $1.4 billion, in part because they were counting on receiving hundreds of millions of dollars more from the state in the next fiscal year than they did in the current one.
The governor took issue Thursday with the idea that any teacher layoffs would be necessary. ''When they say, 'Well, we're going to lay off teachers, and we're going to hurt children' -- that's basically the threat in this discussion, right?'' Mr. Cuomo said Thursday at a news conference at the Capitol.
''I don't believe it,'' he said, adding that he thought that the state's school districts could cut more administrative costs to avert teacher layoffs. The city has not yet projected layoffs for any education employees beside teachers but says they are under consideration.
John White, a deputy chancellor for the city's Department of Education, said that the city was being realistic and not playing politics with its numbers.
''This is math, a subject Mike Mulgrew isn't passing right now,'' he said. ''We have projected layoffs based on an anticipated deficit of more than $400 million, which is incredibly optimistic when you consider the state actually cut our education funding by $1.4 billion.''
Between October 2009 and October 2010, according to Department of Education payroll numbers, 4,551 teachers left; the previous year, 5,027 departed. But roughly 2,500 new teachers joined each year, mostly in areas where the city was mandated to maintain staffing, like special education.
The resulting net loss has been about 2,000 to 2,500 teaching positions a year. Over all, the city, with its 1.04 million students, has a total teacher roll of 74,675 now, compared with about 79,896 in September 2008, city and union officials said.
Moving from there to the city's latest projection of just 1,500 positions to be lost by attrition requires some math and budgeting choices. The most important is a question of timing. Education officials said this week that when they make layoff projections, they count only resignations and retirements that happen between June 1 and the first day of school in September, traditionally the peak time for departures.
This leaves out hundreds of teacher departures, and the savings that would result, the union says. Last year about 600 teachers left during the school year, for example, and 900 left the previous school year.
Education officials said that teachers who left during the school year were already paid for in that year's budget and that those departures would not result in savings for the next year because of the budgeting method the city uses. The city's current layoff estimate is based on how the payroll stood in December.
Education officials also estimated that 400 fewer teachers would resign or retire this summer than last summer because there were fewer of them to start with and, because of the bad economy, fewer teachers have been retiring each year. And because of a steady rise in the proportion of the teaching force in mandated areas like special education, more teachers from those areas may leave than in years past, and they must be replaced.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Jackson, center, a City Council member, pleading to Albany during a protest Thursday against cuts in education. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (94%); LAYOFFS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); POLITICS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%); ANDREW CUOMO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



421 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths SILVERMAN, SANDRA

 BODY:
SILVERMAN--Sandra. The Board and staff of the Scherman Foundation are deeply saddened by the death of our former President. 
A proud daughter of Chicago, she embraced her adopted home of New York with characteristic passion and energy. Beginning in the Lindsay administration, she served the city in numerous capacities including: press secretary of the 1975 Charter Revision Commission, member of the 1992 Democratic Convention Host Committee; and member of the Taxi and Limousine Commission. In addition to a distinguished career in public relations (M. Booth, Soref and Silverman, etc.) she was the founding executive director of the Citizens Committee of New York City, the city's leader in supporting block associations and neighborhood revitalization. She joined the Foundation's board in 1984 and its staff in 1993, serving as President until 2009. Her dedicated and dynamic leadership increased both the effectiveness of our giving and the visibility of the Foundation. She played a particularly significant role in the reproductive rights field, leading funder groups and inspiring frontline organizations. Meetings with grantees were defined by her generosity and warmth, as well as her genuine curiosity. She loved politics, she loved do-gooders, and she deeply loved her colleagues and her gang of friends, who will all desperately miss her warmth and intelligence. We extend our love and condolences to her brother Marvin and sister-in-law Barbara of Jerusalem as well her many nieces, nephews and other family members whom she loved so much.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



422 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Bank Shares Pace a Rally as Group of 7 Nations Try to Stabilize Yen

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL; Hiroko Tabuchi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks closed out a bumpy week with a modest rally on Friday, jumping after the announcement of a cease-fire in Libya and a move by global leaders to intervene in the currency markets and stabilize the Japanese yen, which had soared to near record highs in recent days.
After spending the last week reacting to headlines out of Japan -- first concentrating on the earthquake and tsunami and then the growing nuclear crisis -- analysts and traders across the globe were happy to get a respite from this week's volatility. 
''We all feel a bit fried,'' said Steve Major, the head of fixed-income research at HSBC in London. ''I think we need to try to get used to this heightened sense of uncertainty.''
On Friday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.48 points, to 1,279.20, extending its move up from Thursday but still finishing down nearly 2 percent for the week. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 83.93 points to close at 11,858.52, while the Nasdaq composite index edged up 7.62 points to close at 2,643.67.
Financial stocks paced the rally after several institutions, including JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and U.S. Bancorp, said they were increasing dividends.
But the focus for much of the day was on the Japanese yen, which pulled back from record intra-day highs of 76.53 yen to the dollar Thursday before the United States and other Group of 7 nations announced plans Thursday night to intervene and stabilize it.
It might seem counterintuitive that the Japanese yen would climb as the country struggled to recover from the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis at the stricken Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plan in northeastern Japan.
But investors flocked into the yen this week. Some were simply reversing short positions, or bets they had previously made that the Japanese yen would continue to decline because of Japan's weak economy and high debt levels. Others were buying yen on the belief that Japanese insurance companies and individuals would sell their large holdings of foreign assets and convert that into yen to cover the cost of rebuilding.
''I think there were a lot of shorts out there. Repatriation, when it occurs, will happen in waves,'' said Mike Ryan, chief investment strategist for UBS Wealth Management Americas, adding: ''It will be a lagged effect that will occur with rebuilding efforts.''
Central banks furiously sold billions of dollars of yen, with the Bank of Japan leading the effort, traders said. On Friday after the intervention, the yen weakened 2.4 percent to 80.96 yen to the dollar.
Analysts said the coordinated action in stabilizing the yen also indicated that central banks in the United States and Europe were unlikely to tighten monetary policy in the next few months as Japan recovered.
''This means we're going to have lower interest rates for a bit longer,'' said James Swanson, chief investment strategist for MFS Investment Management. ''It's clear these central banks are willing to do whatever they can to prevent dislocations, whether that's a dramatic rise in yen or a rise in rates in the U.S.''
The Nikkei 225 surged on the global coordinated intervention, climbing 244.08 points to 9,206.75. The Nikkei is still down nearly 12 percent from its levels before the earthquake struck.
Other global markets also climbed, but gave up early advances near the close. The Euro Stoxx 50, a benchmark of blue chips, added 0.23 percent while the DAX advanced 0.1 percent for the day. In London, the FTSE rose about 0.4 percent while the CAC 40 in Paris rose 0.6 percent.
Meanwhile, traders in bond and oil markets kept close watch over developments in Libya.
Hours after the United Nations Security Council voted to authorize military action and a no-flight zone, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's government abruptly announced a cease-fire against rebel forces in the country. But later in the day, government leaders in several countries cautioned that words were not enough.
Oil prices fell 35 cents to settle at $101.07 a barrel. The 10-year benchmark Treasury bond fell 3/32, to 103, while the yields rose to 3.27 percent from 3.26 percent late Thursday.
If the crisis in Japan eases and the situation in Libya stabilizes, American consumers may get a break from the higher prices at the pump that many feared were coming this summer, said Mr. Swanson, of MFS.
But he expects oil and other commodities to resume their march upward again in the next six to 12 months as Japan buys copper, aluminum, steel, concrete and natural gas to rebuild.
As Wall Street markets calmed Friday, the CBOE VIX index, a closely watched barometer of investor sentiment about volatility in United States equities markets, fell for the second consecutive day.
While volatility rose this week, it remains well below where it was last year following the Flash Crash and concerns about Greece. But some analysts warn that global markets still face plenty of uncertainty.
''Think about what we saw just this week,'' said Mr. Major, of HSBC. ''Natural disasters, nuclear risk, geopolitical uncertainty in North Africa, the Middle East and the euro zone sovereign crisis remain unresolved.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); CURRENCIES (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); TSUNAMIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INSURANCE (74%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (72%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (61%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); U S BANCORP (67%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%); UBS WEALTH MANAGEMENT (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); USB (NYSE) (67%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (88%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



423 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Trade Unions in City Confront A Rise in Nonunion Projects

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
A luxury apartment building is rising at 23rd Street and 10th Avenue, and, across town, one is being created inside an old Salvation Army building overlooking Gramercy Park. Other residential buildings and hotels are going up on 11th Avenue, West 18th Street and East 23rd Street.
All are signs that New York City's real estate industry is clawing out of the recession. But they are noteworthy for another reason: they are being constructed without any union labor.
For most of the last century, the city's construction unions were a symbol of labor strength in a pro-labor town, and their involvement in large projects was almost never in doubt. But just as public employees' unions across the country are in the fights of their lives, the city's major building unions are facing their own moment of reckoning. 
While they are still a major presence, their share of the city's $20 billion to $30 billion in annual construction work has dropped significantly in recent years. There are no official statistics; according to unionized construction companies, two out of five construction jobs in the city are now nonunion, though unions put the number at one in four. All agree that for many years, at least 85 percent of building jobs were union ones.
And the companies and unions are about to enter what may be their most tense contract negotiations in years, with the employers demanding large concessions and already angering labor leaders by taking their campaign directly to the workers with a Web site and in small group meetings around the city; subway ads may also be forthcoming.
''There's enough pressure on everybody,'' said Bobby Bonanza, business manager for the Mason Tenders District Council, which represents about 13,000 workers affected by the contracts. ''We don't need another Wisconsin in this town.''
The employers have backed off an initial demand for wage cuts, but they are still aiming for a 25 percent cut in labor costs, by reducing benefits and changing some work rules. They say these changes would allow them to better compete with nonunionized companies, which are winning jobs from developers because their costs are 20 to 30 percent cheaper.
''A combination of market erosion and the recession has permanently changed the financial structure of real estate in New York City,'' said Louis J. Coletti, president of the Building Trades Employers' Association. ''This is not about a race to the bottom. It's about our common enemy: nonunion contractors.''
All told, the negotiations involve 30 different unions and as many as 60,000 steamfitters, ironworkers, crane operators, laborers and carpenters. Union leaders say they have made numerous concessions since the recession started, including wage freezes on non-Manhattan projects, that have reduced overall labor costs by as much as 20 percent. But, they say, employers are now trying to increase profits by cutting benefits and exaggerating the loss of market share at a time when the national political climate has turned against unions.
Not so long ago, starting a large construction job, particularly in Manhattan, with nonunion labor was considered a provocation likely to ignite a pitched battle with carpenters, ironworkers and laborers intent on closing down the job. But during the building boom of the late 1990s and most of the last decade, there was enough work to go around that union workers were not terribly bothered if some jobs went nonunion.
But as the cost of land and construction materials skyrocketed, some developers began to become more cost-conscious and began looking for savings in labor costs, particularly by choosing cheaper nonunionized contractors. And lenders began to scrutinize costs more closely.
The unions and unionized employers argue that union laborers are more skilled and safer than nonunion laborers, and that it is far easier to mobilize large numbers of workers when they are organized. But over the last few years, nonunion construction companies like Flintlock became skilled in putting up midsize 10- to 30-story buildings, the kind of building where, along with interior finishing and renovation, the unions have been losing most of their market share.
Unionized contractors still have a lock on megaprojects like big office towers, including those under construction at the World Trade Center. But union leaders, construction executives and developers are closely watching a project in Long Island City, Queens, where H. Henry Elghanayan, a residential developer whose company traditionally uses union contractors, is expected to select a nonunion outfit to build a large complex with 700 apartments.
''If traditional construction managers that stuck with the unions start losing nine-figure jobs,'' said one executive of a union contractor, who refused to be named so as not to further anger the unions, ''that's a game changer.''
Mr. Elghanayan said in an interview that he had yet to select a contractor. But, he added, ''Everyone's pressing to get total development costs down.''
David Von Spreckelsen, vice president of Toll Brothers, said his company built the first of two towers at its Northside Piers project in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, with union contractors. But as construction costs escalated in 2008, Toll Brothers turned to a nonunion contractor for the second tower, prompting unions to protest with five giant inflatable rats. The company now has three apartment buildings under construction in Manhattan with nonunion labor.
And this week, the developer of the Atlantic Yards megaproject in Brooklyn said it was seriously considering using a prefabricated method to build its residential high-rise. While most of the workers would be unionized, there would be fewer of them and they would earn less money because much of the labor would be done in a factory, where wage scales are lower than on the site.
The construction unions have long been the backbone of the city's blue-collar middle class. A journeyman carpenter, for example, is now paid $46 an hour, with health, pension and other benefits bringing the total cost to $85. The total compensation for mason tenders, a less skilled position, is $58.
''We make a good salary, probably more than most office workers,'' said Marc Spring, a union plumber for 25 years whose father was a union plumber for 40 years. ''But we work harder than they do, out in the elements.''
Mr. Spring acknowledged that ''times were tough,'' one reason that his local had already made concessions. Still, Mr. Spring said, he resents the constant talk of givebacks. ''I don't see how the developers aren't making money,'' he said.
Besides some benefit reductions, the employers want changes in some decades-old work rules, beginning with overtime. Workers now earn double pay for overtime; the construction companies want to reduce it to time and a half.
On most jobs, the workday starts when workers arrive at ground level, but on large jobs with many men sharing a hoist, it can take another half-hour to reach the actual work site on a high floor, and another half-hour to descend at the end of the day. Employers are proposing that workers be paid only from the time they reach their station to the time they leave it, and some unions have already agreed to this change.
They also want to end a requirement by the operating engineers, who operate cranes, bulldozers and other heavy equipment, that three workers be in place to work even when only one is needed. Although they are a tiny fraction of the work force, they are the highest-paid, often earning well over $200,000 a year, including overtime.
James Conway, an official of Local 14 of the Operating Engineers, declined to comment.
The employers, however, are wary of pressing too hard, because a strike by just one union could be enough to shut down many of the city's major construction projects.
And despite the animosity among the unions and their employers, Ruth Milkman, a sociology professor at the CUNY Graduate Center who studies unions, said they have an important common ground. ''Once you allow nonunion, lower-cost bidders to undercut the unions, it threatens everybody,'' Professor Milkman said. ''So there is a mutual interest at work here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Breslin, a motivational speaker for labor unions, addressed members of the insulators' union in Queens this month.
About 300 union members listened. Contract talks are expected to start soon, and employers are demanding givebacks. Both sides say that unions' share of construction work has declined. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Marc Spring has been a union plumber for 25 years
 his father was one for 40 years. He said he resented talk of concessions. ''I don't see how the developers aren't making money,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%); STATISTICS (67%); PLUMBING & HVAC CONTRACTORS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



424 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Netflix Has Deal to Run New Series

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER. 
Ron Lieber, whose Your Money column normally appears on this page, is off.

 BODY:
9:04 p.m. Updated There is a new competitor for HBO and Showtime in the television landscape - and, for the first time, it is not a television network.
Netflix, the popular online film service, said on Friday that it had licensed the exclusive rights to ''House of Cards,'' a show that is to be directed by David Fincher, the director of ''The Social Network,'' and to star Kevin Spacey.
The deal immediately makes Netflix a player in premium television programming. 
''House of Cards,'' a serialized political drama, will look and feel like a traditional TV show, but it will not be distributed that way. Rather than having its debut at a certain time and date on a TV channel, ''House of Cards'' will have its debut online, where there are no set showtimes. It will be marketed through Netflix's recommendation engine. And it will probably be released in batches, several episodes at a time, since subscribers like to binge on serialized shows.
''Just a couple years ago, this would be completely unheard of,'' Ted Sarandos, the chief content officer for Netflix, acknowledged in an interview. ''It speaks a lot to how quickly this market is emerging and to how quickly Netflix has become a real, legitimate entertainment brand in the eyes of both consumers and content creators.''
The deal, first previewed several days ago by Deadline.com, underscored just how muscular Netflix had become in the media business. By licensing ''House of Cards,'' Netflix is essentially selling itself to Hollywood as an alternative to networks like HBO - and indicating that it is willing to pay high prices for high-quality shows. Netflix would not comment on the value of the deal, but it was believed to be close to $100 million.
''Netflix is the original unbundled TV purveyor - the opposite of a network,'' said Terry Heaton, a new media expert and the author of the PoMo Blog. He said the Netflix move was bold and ''a big loud knock on the door'' for other companies.
Analysts said that through the deal, Netflix was both striving to differentiate its service and to reduce its dependence on films and TV shows licensed from third parties. Netflix has become a target of HBO and that network's parent company, Time Warner, as well as other major media companies, and it is likely to face much steeper costs for those licenses.
Netflix has more than 20 million subscribers, and it is adding more rapidly, thanks in part to the proliferation of connected screens like iPads.
Ingrid Chung, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, upgraded Netflix to buy from neutral this week. She said in an analyst's note that about 27 percent of consumers in the United States now stream movies and TV shows over the Internet, up from 16 percent at the same time last year. Many do so through Netflix, which Ms. Chung said ''now has sufficient scale to make it difficult for new entrants, given low price points and expensive content costs.''
Netflix's stock, which nearly quadrupled last year, closed Friday at $209.40, down $4.50.
A small group of other companies, Hulu, the YouTube division of Google and the Xbox division of Microsoft among them, have also contemplated distribution set-ups like the one conceived by Netflix and Media Rights Capital, which is producing ''House of Cards.''
Asif Satchu, a co-chairman of Media Rights Capital, said he was shocked when he first saw how many subscribers Netflix had amassed.
''They have a distribution platform that could rival the networks','' he said Friday in an interview.
Netflix is licensing the North American rights to 26 episodes of the show. That is the equivalent of two seasons of a cable television drama. That is a departure from the normal model of TV production, in which one pilot episode is completed before one season is ordered. The production company will retain international, syndication and DVD sales rights.
On Friday, Netflix sought to tamp down talk about the risk it was taking with the show. The company already streams past seasons of hundreds of TV shows, Mr. Sarandos said; the difference this time is that ''we made a commitment prior to production.''
The show will not have its debut until late 2012, giving the producers ample time to ''get the show right,'' Mr. Satchu said.
Based on a novel of the same name about an ambitious British politician, ''House of Cards'' was made into a BBC miniseries in 1990. The producers of that version will serve as the executive producers of the new one.
One of the chief advantages ''House of Cards'' will have is the on-demand nature of the Netflix service. Because TV networks have schedules, ''when a show fails, it's because it failed to aggregate an audience at the time it was on television,'' Mr. Sarandos said. ''There could be a million different reasons for that failure - it's not just because the show isn't good.''
He continued, ''There's nothing in our model that makes a show more valuable if it can attract a large audience at a specific time. As long as it happens in the life of the license, it's fine by me.''
Netflix is not in any active discussions about picking up other shows, Mr. Sarandos said, but he is prepared to bid on others in the future. He expressed a particular interest in serialized shows like ''24'' and ''Lost,'' which have enduring popularity on Netflix.
''The economics of serialized one-hour dramas are not looking great for networks, but they're really popular for viewers,'' he said. ''We can be the savior to this genre of television.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''House of Cards,'' a serialized political drama that will be shown on Netflix, will star Kevin Spacey, left, and will be directed by David Fincher. The company has licensed North American rights to 26 episodes of the show, the equivalent of two seasons of a cable television drama. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ALBERTO E. RODRIGUEZ/GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (70%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (67%)

COMPANY: HOME BOX OFFICE INC (92%); NETFLIX INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (92%); GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (92%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



425 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: As Remodeling Rebounds, Caveats for the Homeowner

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
ONE part of the housing market is experiencing a rebound that will probably continue even if the rest of the market remains sluggish: remodeling.
A recent report by the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University predicted that remodeling would rebound strongly this year after a three-year downturn. The center estimated growth of 9.1 percent for the first quarter and 12.1 percent for the second quarter. The predicted rate drops for the end of the year, but annual growth in remodeling is expected to be around 8 percent. In fact, the study found, the remodeling market held up far better than housing construction during the recession, with annual spending still close to $300 billion.
Kermit Baker, director of the remodeling futures program at the Joint Center for Housing Studies, said that remodeling nationwide was likely to remain strong as homeowners who put off maintenance and improvement projects began to spend more freely again. The study also found that the industry was beginning to benefit from the rehabilitation of foreclosed properties.
But as the market for renovations picks up, it may be a good time to consider the problems that could arise -- beyond the obvious ones of cost overruns and bathroom vanities that do not fit. 
A group of leading insurers said renovations are a constant source of large claims on homeowners' policies. And among claims, fire is the most common cause.
Don Soss, vice president for underwriting at the Fireman's Fund Insurance Company, said one of the larger recent claims was for $2.55 million on a house in New York. Either the electrician or the plumber started a fire in a second-floor bathroom that spread throughout the house. He recalled another claim for $1.51 million in California that involved a subcontractor using a torch during demolition that set the roof on fire.
While these claims were paid, the homeowners' losses went beyond the financial. Not only were they out of their house for an additional six months or more, but they also lost personal items. So with the spring renovation season beginning in the Northeast -- identified in the housing study as one of the areas of the country where remodeling spending is highest -- what should prospective renovators keep in mind?
WHY THE REBOUND? It may seem counterintuitive that even as the housing market continues to suffer and the economic recovery feels tentative, the renovation market is picking up. But Mr. Baker pointed out that while home sales and construction were linked to mortgage rates, renovations were determined more by income levels and job security.
''Remodeling is not heavily financed,'' he said. Instead, people are willing to spend cash, Mr. Baker said, because they have ''a comfort level that the value of my home isn't depreciating.''
He said during the peak years of 2006 and 2007, only 30 to 35 percent of renovations were financed through home equity loans or second mortgages. Last year, that number dropped to 15 to 20 percent.
He said there was more growth in smaller projects -- energy-efficient windows and heating and air-conditioning systems -- than in full-scale additions. Yet he said he expected continued growth across all types of renovations.
Historically, the Northeast and the Midwest have driven renovations because of older homes and higher personal income rates. That is happening this time around as well. But one difference is that the South and the West, where the house-building boom was centered, now have more homes that will need improvements. Foreclosures in these areas are also a factor in this.
''Houses are staying in the foreclosure process now for up to 500 days,'' Mr. Baker said. ''Owners are not putting money into maintaining the home because they're ultimately going to be out on the street. A buyer who buys that home for 30 to 50 cents on the dollar or an investor who wants to flip it in nine months is going to have to put money in.''
PRECAUTIONS AND RISKS Whether the homeowner wants to add a new kitchen or repair years of neglect, the cause of renovation problems is the same. Homeowners are concentrating on the outcome, not on managing the process.
''They're so focused on what their house is ultimately going to look like, particularly in larger projects, that they don't pause to think about some of this stuff,'' said Gary Raphael, senior vice president of claims and risk consulting at ACE private risk services. The solutions are ''pragmatic, and grounded in our claim experience.''
So what should you consider before starting? Any homeowner planning a sizable renovation should hire a contractor, for efficiency and safety, insurers say. ''We've seen construction projects that have outlasted marriages,'' said Scott Spencer, worldwide appraisal and loss prevention manager for Chubb Personal Insurance.
Beyond promoting marital harmony, a contractor could help move the project along. He should bring his own liability coverage and enough insurance to rebuild your house in case of fire.
''Homeowners acting as their own general contractor -- that's the biggest mistake they can make,'' said Rich Standring, regional manager for risk services at Fireman's Fund. ''You need someone who is fully versed in bringing on subs, who can read plans, who understands the licensing process.''
The other conversation to have with a contractor is about how he will dispose of flammable liquids and manage the use of tools like blow torches.
Insurers also feel more comfortable when the owner is living in the home during the renovation. ''Renovations where people are doing tear-outs and can't live there are long, hard exposures, not just from fire and damage but vandalism and theft,'' Mr. Soss said.
THE RAG THREAT The one constant bit of advice from insurers is to tell them about your renovation before you begin it so they can tell you what to look out for and, of course, increase your coverage.
Fireman's Fund has a provision in some of its policies that says it will not cover any renovation above $25,000 if the homeowner does not notify them about it. And Mr. Spencer of Chubb uses a joke to remind homeowners of the need to insure what is about to be installed.
''We suggest you increase the coverage on your home the minute the granite countertops arrive,'' he said.
But the best policy is still vigilance. The top thing to monitor is oily rags, which strike fear into the hearts of risk assessors. These rags catch fire easily if they are not disposed of properly.
''It's the accumulation of the fumes from stain, varnish, even some of the paints,'' Mr. Standring said. ''Anything could set them off -- a spark, a pilot light. We see a lot of spontaneous combustion.''
The solution is to make sure the rags are put in a locked, fireproof box at the end of each day.
Second on the risk list is the debris from the welding and soldering equipment used on roofs or for installing plumbing and electrical wiring. A common disaster, Mr. Raphael said, happens when a pipe is welded but no one checks to see if any solder has fallen onto the debris below. It can smolder for hours and catch fire later that night.
Thinking about the disasters that can befall your home for the sake of a nicer, updated bathroom may put a damper on some people's enthusiasm. ''It can be scary, but if certain things are done, it can be fun and successful,'' Mr. Raphael said. He speaks from experience: he has survived two renovations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Home Depot store in Los Angeles. Insurers counsel homeowners to take precautions to avoid expensive problems from remodeling projects. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); HOME PRICES (73%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE POLICIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); FORECLOSURE (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: FIREMAN'S FUND INSURANCE CO (66%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



426 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: A Price Too High?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
Gail Collins is off today.

 BODY:
Catastrophes happen.
No one thought the Interstate 35W bridge across the Mississippi River in Minneapolis would collapse. No one thought the Gulf of Mexico would be fouled to the horrible extent that it was by the BP oil spill. The awful convergence of disasters in Japan -- a 9.0 earthquake followed by a tsunami and a devastating nuclear power emergency -- seemed almost unimaginable.
Worst-case scenarios unfold more frequently than we'd like to believe, which leads to two major questions regarding nuclear power that Americans have an obligation to answer. 
First, can a disaster comparable to the one in Japan happen here? The answer, of course, is yes -- whether caused by an earthquake or some other event or series of events. Nature is unpredictable and human beings are fallible. It could happen.
So the second question is whether it makes sense to follow through on plans to increase our reliance on nuclear power, thus heightening the risk of a terrible problem occurring here in the United States. Is that a risk worth taking?
Concern over global warming has increased the appeal of nuclear power, which does not produce the high levels of greenhouse gases that come from fossil fuels. But there has been a persistent tendency to ignore the toughest questions posed by nuclear power: What should be done with the waste? What are the consequences of a catastrophic accident in a populated area? How safe are the plants, really? Why would taxpayers have to shoulder so much of the financial risk of expanding the nation's nuclear power capacity, an effort that would be wildly expensive?
A big part of the problem at Japan's Fukushima Daiichi power station are the highly radioactive spent fuel rods kept in storage pools at the plant. What to do, ultimately, with such dangerous waste material is the nuclear power question without an answer. Nuclear advocates and public officials don't talk about it much. Denial is the default position when it comes to nuclear waste.
In New York, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said again this week that the 40-year-old Indian Point nuclear power plant in Westchester County, 35 miles north of New York City, should be closed. Try to imagine the difficulty, in the event of an emergency, of evacuating such an area with its millions of residents. ''This plant in this proximity to New York City was never a good risk,'' said the governor.
There are, blessedly, very few catastrophic accidents at nuclear power plants. And there have not been many deaths associated with them. The rarity of such accidents provides a comfort zone. We can look at the low probabilities and declare, ''It can't happen here.''
But what if it did happen here? What would the consequences be? If Indian Point blew, how wide an area and how many people would be affected, and what would the cleanup costs be? Rigorously answering such questions is the only way to determine whether the potential risk to life and property is worthwhile.
The 104 commercial nuclear plants in the U.S. are getting old, and many have had serious problems over the years. There have been dozens of instances since 1979, the year of the Three Mile Island accident, in which nuclear reactors have had to be shut down for more than a year for safety reasons.
Building new plants, which the Obama administration favors, can be breathtakingly expensive and requires government loan guarantees. Banks are not lining up to lend money on their own for construction of the newest generation of Indian Points.
In addition to the inherent risks with regard to safety and security, the nuclear industry has long been notorious for sky-high construction costs, feverish cost-overruns and projects that eventually are abandoned. The Union of Concerned Scientists, in a 2009 analysis of the costs associated with nuclear plant construction, said that once a plant came online it usually led to significant rate increases for customers:
''Ratepayers bore well over $200 billion (in today's dollars) in cost overruns for completed nuclear plants. In the 1990s, legislators and regulators also allowed utilities to recover most 'stranded costs' -- the difference between utilities' remaining investments in nuclear plants and the market value of those plants -- as states issued billions of dollars in bonds backed by ratepayer charges to pay for utilities' above-market investments.''
The refrain here is familiar: ''The total cost to ratepayers, taxpayers and shareholders stemming from cost overruns, canceled plants and stranded costs exceeded $300 billion in today's dollars.''
Nuclear power is hardly the pristine, economical, unambiguous answer to the nation's energy needs and global warming concerns. It offers benefits and big-time shortcomings. Ultimately, the price may be much too high.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (87%); TSUNAMIS (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (79%); OIL SPILLS (77%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (77%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (77%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (77%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (77%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (77%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (76%); NUCLEAR WASTE (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%); GULF OF MEXICO (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



427 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Pre-existing Condition? Now, a Health Policy May Not Be Impossible

BYLINE: By WALECIA KONRAD

 BODY:
SIX years ago, Jerry Garner, 45, a real estate agent in Gowen, Mich., underwent a kidney transplant. He recovered nicely, and thanks to diligent adherence to his drug regimen and frequent checkups, he has been healthy ever since -- ''a miracle,'' said his wife, Stephanie.
But last year, the Garners were starting to believe that their good fortune had run out.
Mr. Garner's insurer asked that he fill out a survey, but somehow this piece of mail slipped through the cracks at the Garner household. As a result, he lost his health insurance. (Ms. Garner, 44, and three of the children -- their oldest child is grown -- were covered under a different policy.) But because of his pre-existing condition, Mr. Garner proved impossible to insure. 
Transplant recipients must take expensive immunosuppressant medications. Without them, the new kidney will not survive. The couple paid Mr. Garner's $2,000 monthly drug bill out of pocket and prayed nothing went wrong. Some months they had to choose between the medication and the mortgage.
Finally, after weeks of searching the Internet, making phone calls and praying, Ms. Garner saw a television ad for Michigan's new pre-existing condition insurance plan. P.C.I.P.'s, as they are known, are state and federal programs for people previously deemed uninsurable because of pre-existing conditions. They offer a bridge to 2014, when the new health insurance exchanges, which must accept all comers, are to open.
Mr. Garner applied to Michigan's plan and was accepted. Now he pays less in premiums than he did under his previous plan, and he receives more comprehensive coverage.
''It was definitely an answered prayer,'' said Ms. Garner. ''Two thousand dollars when you're already struggling is just impossible.''
Plenty of people with pre-existing conditions like Mr. Garner are struggling to find affordable insurance. These plans offer a real alternative, but consumers are only now becoming aware of them. Plus, there are some tough restrictions. Here is what you need to know:
FINDING A PLAN Pre-existing condition insurance plans, required by the new health care law, opened for business in July. The new plans come in two flavors: 27 states run their own plans with federal money, while the rest rely on the federal Department of Health and Human Services to administer the plans within their borders.
The new plans did not replace state high-risk pools, which have long offered insurance to people with pre-existing conditions. But the premiums in the new plans are generally much lower. That is why experts had worried that the new plans could be overwhelmed by a deluge of desperate applicants.
In fact, the P.C.I.P.'s got off to a slow start, and many consumers still have no idea they exist. In January, premiums in the federally run plans were reduced nearly 20 percent. Since then, enrollment in all of the new plans has increased 50 percent to 12,000 members.
To find a plan in your state, start with the federal government's Web site, PCIP.gov, which offers lots of application information and details about each of the state plans the department administers. An interactive map at www.pcip.gov/StatePlans.html links to each federal- and state-run plan.
Next, you will need to compare the plan offerings in your state. Federally run P.C.I.P.'s offer three options: standard coverage; extended coverage, with a lower deductible and higher premiums; and an option that combines a high deductible with a health savings account. For a side-by-side comparison of the three choices, click on bit.ly/gs3z9i. Premiums for all three options are also listed online.
State plans that are not administered by the federal government may also offer more than one option. The details can be found at the interactive state map mentioned above.
People without access to the Internet can call the Department of Health and Human Services at 866-717-5826 to find out which plans are available in their states.
ELIGIBILITY RESTRICTIONS The plans were not intended to solve the health insurance mess. They were intended as a temporary Band-aid, and they have some frustrating limitations.
You must be uninsured for at least six months to be eligible for a plan. That means people already enrolled in state high-risk pools or private insurance cannot apply, even if the new plans would be far less expensive. Unemployed people who are on Cobra or whose benefits have only recently expired are also not eligible.
Plans run by the federal government and those administered by individual states have slightly different application procedures.
To qualify for a federally run plan, you will need proof that you have applied for individual insurance and that a carrier denied you coverage because of a pre-existing condition, or proof that a carrier approved coverage but with a rider that excluded payment for your pre-existing condition. (Do not buy a policy with such a rider, as you will no longer be eligible for a P.C.I.P.)
An uninsured patient may have to apply for insurance simply to get proof of denial to enroll in a plan. Proof may take the form of a denial letter.
State-run plans may have less stringent eligibility requirements. Some require proof of denial, but in others people with certain pre-existing conditions, like diabetes or asthma, qualify for coverage more or less automatically. Those people need only obtain a letter from their doctors or other health care providers confirming that they have one of the conditions recognized by the plan.
Patients who live in Vermont and Massachusetts can qualify for those state plans if they can show proof that the premiums they have been offered by a private insurer in the individual market are at least twice as high as the P.C.I.P. premium. But they cannot be enrolled in those plans.
If you are newly uninsured, have a pre-existing condition and are shopping for private insurance in the individual market, keep a record of any denials you may receive. If you do not find insurance on your own and you live in a state that requires denial confirmation, you will have the documentation you need.
THE RIGHT COVERAGE The federal government set aside $5 billion to subsidize the new plans. Even with the subsidies, an individual premium in the federally run standard plan for a 50-year-old can range from $320 to $570.
State-run plans determine their own premiums based on what the private insurance market charges insurable members. In Connecticut, for example, monthly premiums for the plan can be as much as $890.
Review your coverage options carefully. In the plans sponsored by the federal government, all three options cover 100 percent of preventive care, like annual physicals and screenings. All charge a 20 percent co-pay (40 percent for out-of-network providers) for other care, with a $5,950 out-of-pocket annual maximum for in-network care ($7,000 for out of network).
The difference is in the deductible. The standard plan has a $2,000 deductible for in-network care ($3,000 for out of network), compared to the extended plan's $1,000 and $1,500 deductibles.
In Massachusetts, for example, standard plan premiums for people ages 35 to 44 are $324 a month, compared to $438 a month for the extended plan. If you can afford the higher out-of-pocket costs, it may make sense to opt for lower premiums.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jerry Garner, who had a kidney transplant six years ago, was uninsured and paying thousands for medications until his wife, Stephanie, saw an ad for state pre-existing condition insurance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); ORGAN DONATION (90%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); INSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); HEALTH CARE LAW (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



428 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: The Urge To React

BYLINE: By CARL RICHARDS

 BODY:
Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah.
When the market hits a rough patch like we're seeing this week, there's a natural tendency to do something. Fast. Paul Sullivan's recent column on investor behavior provided more anecdotal evidence that our natural reaction is to sell after bad news (when the market is already down) and buy when news is good (after the market is already up). In other words, sell low and buy high.
Knowing that we're fighting this tendency to do the wrong thing at the wrong time, here are a few things to keep in mind: 
1. Remember the ''why.'' Almost every time you make a rash decision based on past market performance, it's a mistake. Investment decisions should be made based on your goals and not the market. Make changes when your goals change, and ignore the market. 2. Incorporate new information slowly. Of course, you learn things during market corrections, and what you learn may change your goals. During the huge decline of 2008-9, many of us learned what risk really meant. Before that, risk was an abstract concept, but it became very real then. That experience might have changed your goals. That would be a reason to make a change to your investments. But even then, be patient. The time to think about going for a swim is not when you're already in a life raft. Wait until things settle down and you can think rationally about the next course of action.
3. ''Have you seen what the market is doing?'' This is often what people say when they are in a state of shock and ready to go to cash ''until things clear up.'' Notice the implication that the market is ''doing'' something. The reality is that all we know what the market has already done. We have no real idea of what it will be doing tomorrow or next week.
4. Jumping out of the pan and into the fire. Going to cash until things clear up does not reduce stress. When you sell because you just can't handle the pain anymore, you have a new problem: when to get back in. Unless you decided that your new plan does not involve exposure to the market (see Nos. 1 and 2), you now have to decide when to re-enter the market. The most common ''plan'' is to buy back in when things have ''cleared up,'' whatever that means. If that's your plan, stop and take the time to define what the world will look like when things have cleared up.
Will the news be better or worse than today? Will the economy look better or worse? Will CNBC be a happy place or a sad place?
Now think about this for a second, do you think the market will be higher or lower when things have cleared up? Of course, the market will be higher when things clear up. So now what we're talking about is a plan to sell low (now!) and buy high (later!) on purpose.
5. If you have a plan, sit there. You would never plant an oak tree and then dig it up every time the wind blows to see how the roots are doing.
6. Write yourself a letter. If you feel as if you absolutely have to make a change to your thought-out, rational plan, try writing yourself a letter to prove your case. Then seal it. Open it when things ''clear up'' (see No. 4).
7. If you don't have a plan, vow to make one. And stop repeating the same mistakes over and over. Stay in certificates of deposit until you have a plan.
None of what I've outlined is easy. It's hard to stick to a plan when everything is screaming at you to abandon ship. I'm also not saying that the market will stop going down. But if you have carefully considered your investment decisions in the context of your life and goals, with a clear understanding of the risks you take when you invest in the stock market (no excuses here since we just lived through the best example of risk in decades), then now is the time to stick to the plan.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



429 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: A Shift in the Balance of Debt Obligations

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
FOR years, the American financial sector borrowed and borrowed. Its obligations rose even more rapidly than consumers'. Both sectors were far more aggressive borrowers than the federal government.
Now that has reversed. The Federal Reserve reported this month that the outstanding debts of both the financial sector and households fell in 2010, as they had in 2009. 
When financial sector debt was increasing -- it rose faster than the debt of any other sector for nine consecutive years beginning in 1993, and then again in 2007 as the financial crisis was just beginning -- much of the change represented the growth of financial engineering. Putting a bunch of mortgages into a securitization creates debt as large as all of the mortgage loans that are included. If a collateralized debt obligation is then created and backed by parts of previous securitizations, more debt is created.
Increasing debt levels in the financial sector did not set off alarms before the crisis. Adair Turner, the chairman of Britain's Financial Services Authority, noted at a conference sponsored by the International Monetary Fund last week that ''the dominant conventional wisdom'' was that ''this increase was increasing financial stability because it was dispersing risks efficiently into the balance sheets of those best placed to manage that risk.''
It turned out that was not the case. The risk had not been dispersed, only increased.
When the underlying debtor -- the homeowner in the above example -- got into trouble, the effect could be felt by owners of numerous securities, not just by the original lender.
Over the last two years, financial sector debt fell by nearly 9 percent each year, for a total reduction of $2.9 trillion. To put that figure in perspective, it is more than the entire financial sector debt that was outstanding in 1990, the beginning point for the accompanying charts.
It is also larger than the $2.5 trillion total current obligations of state and local governments.
Some of that reduction represents the deleveraging of Wall Street, and some represents bad debts written off.
Over those same two years, federal debt grew by $3 trillion. Much of that increase was caused by the mess created by the overleveraged financial sector.
Household debt -- including mortgages and credit cards, as well as things like car loans and student loans -- has now declined in three successive years. Again, part of that is the writing off of bad loans and another part is a reduction in actual borrowings.
The figures come from the Fed's quarterly flow of funds statement, which covers the final three months of 2010. Other data indicates that consumers are still cutting credit card debt but that there has been an increase in borrowing for cars and other items financed with consumer loans.
The Fed's data, going back to 1953, indicates there had never been a single year before 2008 when household debt fell. Financial sector debt fell in 1954, but rose every year thereafter until 2009.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Leveraging (and Deleveraging) of America: Over the last 20 years, financial sector debt grew much more rapidly than that of any sector in the United States, while state and local government borrowing rose at the slowest rate. (Source: Federal Reserve, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIZATION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); SPONSORSHIP (52%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



430 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Here's a Job For a Crusader Of Yesteryear

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Let us call from dark caves of memory a man with a terrible swift sword.
Two years ago this month, the country learned that failed financial companies, saved with public funds, had paid millions of dollars in bonuses to their executives.
Apocrypha have it that when the press confronted the 19th-century political chieftain William Marcy Tweed with evidence that he had grossly, and grotesquely, lined his pockets with public money, the Boss replied, ''Well, what are you going to do about it?'' With the discovery of vast fortunes made with public bailout money, you could almost hear Tweed rising from his grave in Green-Wood Cemetery to taunt the nation. What were we going to do about it? 
The most imaginative response came from Andrew M. Cuomo, then the state attorney general. He went after records of bonus payments made by the American International Group, a company that had a central role in the financial crisis. What Mr. Cuomo lacked in legal pretext or standing to seize money, he made up for with guile and gall.
He announced that his office would subpoena the names of all the people who had gotten bonuses, and he suggested that those names could be made public. Or perhaps they'd like to return the money. Many decided they'd just as soon send the money back: about $50 million in bonuses were returned.
Mr. Cuomo has moved on to other work. As governor of New York, he says he is determined to reform Medicaid, the insurance system for the poor and the disabled -- and a gusher of revenue for hospitals where executives regularly receive million-dollar packages of salaries and bonuses.
Last week, a federal criminal complaint charged David Rosen, an executive who ran hospitals in Brooklyn and Queens, with bribing politicians. By far the most bewildering aspects of the hospital administration were not the subject of criminal charges. The records show that the hospitals were financial basket cases, existing solely because of public subsidy and insurance. Mr. Rosen was paid $1.5 million to $2 million a year. His deputies were each paid $1.3 million. The state's Department of Health asked questions two years ago about the pay and was told by the chairman of the hospital corporation that expert consultants had come up with the figures. The state retreated.
As a matter of fact, not only is paying high salaries at destitute hospitals within the law, it also appears to be routine. North General Hospital in Harlem went into bankruptcy in June; the last available tax records show that its chief executive was paid $494,291. Other distressed hospitals in and around the city include New York Downtown, where the most recent records show the chief executive was paid $673,150 and two deputies over $300,000 each; Wyckoff Heights Medical Center, where the chief made $483,577 and had two deputies paid over $300,000; and Southside Hospital in Bay Shore, on Long Island, which paid its boss $507,063.
COMPARED with other impoverished hospitals -- Bronx-Lebanon, for instance, which in some years has paid its chief executive over $4 million -- these hospitals offer modest salaries. But they are unhinged from any semblance of market economics.
''These are not for-profits,'' said Judy Wessler, director of the Commission on the Public's Health System, an advocacy group. ''They are not profit-making entities -- not that I believe profit-making entities should be paying these kinds of salaries either. They're always crying about how poor they are and all the money they are losing.''
You might think this would be just the kind of issue that, say, a crusading attorney-general-turned-governor might dig into. Health executives' salaries in New York State are not as stupendously high, of course, as pay in the financial industry, but they are outlandish in comparison with pay in New York City's public hospital system. That system pays executives a fraction of what is handed out at private hospitals that are subsidized by the state. There is no evidence that the city hospitals suffer because their executives make only about $200,000 a year.
Governor Cuomo set up a task force to cut Medicaid costs that included significant representation of executives from the health care industry, so perhaps it is not surprising that whatever the merits of their recommendations, they did not include limits on the salaries of people like themselves. So far, Mr. Cuomo has not drawn any line on health care executives' salaries.
He has, however, promised to let income taxes drop for people making over a million dollars.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); BONUS PAY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (77%); MEDICAID (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); HEALTH CARE (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); SUBPOENAS (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (63%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (54%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



431 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Dozens Are Killed in Yemen, But Protesters Stand Ground

BYLINE: By LAURA KASINOF and ROBERT F. WORTH; Laura Kasinof reported from Sana, and Robert F. Worth from Washington.

 BODY:
SANA, Yemen -- Yemen's pro-democracy protests exploded into violence on Friday, as government supporters opened fire on demonstrators in this capital, killing at least 45 people and wounding more than 200. The bloodshed failed to disperse the angry throng of tens of thousands of protesters, the largest seen so far in a month of demonstrations calling for the ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.
Mr. Saleh declared a state of emergency shortly after the shootings, denying that security forces had been involved and promising a full investigation. The state news agency said the state of emergency would last 30 days.
The shootings seemed certain to provoke more violence in Yemen's tribal society, and analysts said they could further weaken Mr. Saleh. Although the United States has voiced sympathy for pro-democracy protesters here and elsewhere in the Arab world, it has special concerns about the stability of Yemen, a strife-torn country that is home to one of Al Qaeda's most active branches and has been an American ally, and a major recipient of military aid, in the fight against terrorism. 
Protesters have been killed here in recent weeks, but the violence on Friday dwarfed that of earlier clashes. It began almost immediately after the protesters' noon prayers, conducted en masse in the street by thousands. As the protesters rose from prayer, government supporters in plain clothes opened fire from rooftops and windows on parts of the crowd, while security forces fired guns and a water cannon.
Some of the men in the protest raided buildings where gunmen had been seen, catching several men accused of being snipers, dragging them into the streets and beating them. At least one home appeared to have been set on fire. In the apartment of one suspect, protesters said they had found military uniforms and Defense Ministry identification.
But in the chaos of the day and given the fact that most Yemenis are armed, it was not clear exactly how the violence began or whether the men who fired on the crowd acted on their own or as proxies for Mr. Saleh's security forces. If the government was responsible, it would appear to have taken up the same strategy that Libya and Bahrain followed this week, using overwhelming force against protesters.
''It seems like people saw what happened in Bahrain and thought you could do the same here,'' said one high-ranking Yemeni official, who said he did not know who was responsible for the outbreak. ''But in Yemen it is going to be very bad -- a disaster. This will change everything, because the people killed have tribes.''
At a news conference in Sana, Mr. Saleh claimed that the clashes on Friday were between ''citizens and demonstrators'' and that ''the police were not present and did not open fire.''
President Obama condemned violence in a written statement that called on President Saleh ''to adhere to his public pledge to allow demonstrations to take place peacefully.'' He added, ''Those responsible for today's violence must be held accountable.''
Friday's violence came just two days after a team of mediators from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries arrived in Sana to try to broker a deal between the government and Yemen's opposition coalition, which is dominated by an Islamist party.
In his comments on Friday, Mr. Saleh referred to the mediation efforts, saying, ''I regret that this event may delay a process that could have saved lives.'' But many of the protesters are not affiliated with any established party, and it is not clear that they would have been guided by the deal makers.
The death toll rose through the afternoon as some of the more than 200 people wounded by gunfire or rocks hurled by government supporters succumbed to their injuries, according to a doctor, Muhammed Rizq, and others at a makeshift hospital near the protest site. The majority of those killed had been shot in the head or neck, doctors said. Many of the wounded were, too, and were expected to die.
Despite the heavy toll, the protesters in Sana kept control of a lengthening portion of Ring Road, which stretches from Sana University to a central highway overpass, as the shooting appeared to halt in the middle of the afternoon.
The security forces that had massed at the protest's south end then began to pull back into the city center, firing tear gas as hundreds of protesters gave chase, hurling rocks. People in apartments overlooking the action tossed onions down to the protesters for them to use to relieve the effects of the tear gas.
Before the shooting, the protest had swelled to tens of thousands of people and stretched for a mile from its center at Sana University, and a heavy cloud of black smoke hung over downtown as government supporters burned protesters' tents. Once the shooting began, many moved north along Ring Road and away from the fighting, but a crowd of mostly tribal men from the outskirts of the capital stood firm. A man walked through the crowd with a microphone yelling: ''Peaceful, peaceful! Don't be afraid of the bullets!''
Then the shooting appeared to stop, and the security forces withdrew about a mile down the wet, rock-strewn road.
''Today is the worst day; this is a new Qaddafi,'' said Khalil al-Zekry, who hunkered down in his video shop along the protest route.
A coalition of Yemeni opposition parties called the JMP issued a statement saying that ''this horrendous massacre'' would not ''discourage our people from continuing the struggle.''
The group said that it held ''Mr. Saleh and his family and everyone who participated fully responsible'' and called on Yemeni military officers and soldiers to refuse to participate in violence against Yemeni citizens. A key factor in the success of protest movements in Tunisia and Egypt was the reluctance of those countries' armies to turn their guns on civilians.
Politically, it seemed clear that Friday's violence would harm the Yemeni president. ''It's not in Saleh's interest at all to have people get shot,'' said Charles Schmitz, a Yemen expert at Towson University. That fact deepened the mystery over the shootings; some blamed them on overzealous Saleh supporters or even a Saleh rival in the government.
But despite the risk of more violence and instability, there are positive signs in the recent turmoil, Mr. Schmitz added, including the emergence in protests of a political coalition broader and more representative than anything Yemen has seen in decades.
Before Friday, at least 40 protesters had been killed in weeks of demonstrations across the country. Most of those deaths occurred in the restive southern port city of Aden, where protests have focused on seceding from the nation rather forcing Mr. Saleh from power.
Demonstrators in the capital have stressed the peaceful nature of their protests. Still, one protester, Abdul-Ghani Soliman, said he was not surprised by the violence. ''I actually expect more than this, because freedom requires martyrs,'' said Mr. Soliman, an unemployed tribesman from outside Sana. ''This will continue, and it will grow.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Antigovernment protesters received medical help at a makeshift field hospital after they were attacked Friday in Sana, Yemen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUHAMMED MUHEISEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
The bodies of some of the dozens of protesters who were killed during an antigovernment demonstration in Sana, Yemen, on Friday were prepared for burial. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AHMAD GHARABLI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Wounded protesters were carried away. The demonstrators were demanding the ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUHAMMED MUHEISEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A7) MAPS: In recent weeks, many protesters were killed in Aden. (A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); CAPITAL CRIMES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ARSON (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); AL-QAEDA (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (99%); BAHRAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



432 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Clinging to a Federal Lifeline

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Even as the nation's biggest banks stepped further out of the government's shadow on Friday, hundreds of financial institutions were still clutching to billions of taxpayers' dollars.
Nearly 600 institutions, ranging from large regional powerhouses to small community banks, are holding on to more than $30 billion - about 13 percent of the $245 billion handed out to banks at the height of the financial crisis.
Some of the money will be paid back quickly. Two of the largest remaining bailout recipients, SunTrust and KeyCorp, swiftly announced plans to return their bailout funds, after getting a clean bill of health from the Federal Reserve on Friday.
But others will be slower to part with their federal money. A number of institutions like Synovus Financial and Regions Financial are struggling to return to profitability. Relatively healthy banks like M&T Bank and MB Financial are holding on to their emergency cash, while using the money to acquire other banks, make more loans and buy investments for their portfolios. 
The rest of the bailout cash is scattered among community banks across the country. Many small lenders remain dependent on the low-cost capital. Dozens more like Security Business Bank of San Diego are simply swapping their federal rescue money for potentially cheaper financing from the same source: the government.
The situation underscores how difficult it is for the government to extricate itself from the financial system and the broader economy.
At the height of the financial crisis, the government opened its coffers, injecting much needed capital into the banking industry through the highly contentious Troubled Asset Relief Program. Wall Street titans, eager to shed the stigma and restrictions on executive compensation, quickly repaid the TARP money. A few smaller institutions did the same this month, putting the bank bailout program within a few dollars of breaking even.
The Treasury Department now estimates that it will turn a $12 billion profit on the bank bailout, mainly from its investment in Citigroup. ''This program helped to support the nation's small, medium and large banks during an unprecedented financial crisis,'' said David Miller, the Treasury's chief investment officer. ''Since then, the markets have begun to stabilize, and we now estimate that taxpayers will see a healthy return on their investment.''
But the government's ultimate gain will depend on the 600 or so banks that are sitting on taxpayer dollars.
Some banks desperately need the money. More than 140 banks have missed their recent dividend payments to the government, according to an analysis by Linus Wilson, professor of finance at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette. The financial institutions - including Bank of Blue Valley in Overland Park, Kan., and Anchor Bank in Madison, Wis. - risk defaulting on their federal debt, said Professor Wilson. The group collectively owes the government about $4 billion.
Mark A. Fortino, Blue Valley's chief financial officer, said his bank has enough capital to catch up on its dividend payments. The bank, however, may hold on to its original bailout funds for up to three years, Mr. Fortino said.
''Frankly, a 5 percent dividend is very attractive financing,'' Mr. Fortino said. ''It's given us the cushion to be an active lender.''
Anchor Bank did not returns calls asking for comment.
Other banks like Synovus Financial are current on their payments, but bleeding money. The lender based in Columbus, Ga., which owes the United States nearly $1 billion, recently posted its 10th consecutive quarterly loss. It also faces civil lawsuits stemming from soured investments in luxury resorts.
''The repayment of TARP is not their greatest concern at this point,'' said Brett Scheiner, an analyst with FBR Capital Markets. ''The main thing they care about is reducing their troubled loan balances.''
Synovus did not return calls seeking comment.
For banks in similarly weak positions, the only way to get off the government dole may be to find a deep-pocketed buyer. In December, Marshall & Isley, which owes the government $1.7 billion, agreed to a takeover by the BMO Financial Group of Canada. BMO plans to pay off the TARP cash before the deal closes.
The Whitney Holding Corporation, the oldest bank in New Orleans, agreed in December to merge with the profitable and healthy Hancock Holding Corporation. Hancock expects to repay Whitney's $300 million in bailout funds, too.
''TARP is a driver of mergers,'' said Christopher McGratty, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. ''The solution is: Why not sell and let them pay it off for me?''
Dozens of other small banks are looking to the government to help them repay their bailout funds because many are finding it difficult to raise money in the capital markets
Under a new program designed to spur small business lending, community banks can exchange their rescue money for a potentially cheaper capital. So far, nearly 300 small banks have applied for $5 billion through the program, with about half planning to repay their bailout. Institutions that take advantage of the program can cut their government borrowing costs from 5 percent to as low as 1 percent, if they meet certain lending targets. Paul Rodeno, chief executive of Security Business Bank of San Diego, calls the program a ''breath of fresh air'' since he will immediately lower his interest payments - and use fresh money to pay back the bank's $5.8 million bailout.
Even so, it's hard to shake the ''son of TARP'' or ''TARP Jr.'' moniker that some Republicans initially gave the program. After all, banks are simply trading one form of federal aid for another.
While bigger banks have better access to capital, some are reluctant to repay the government, even though they are in decent financial shape. ''There are definitely banks healthy enough to repay,'' said Jim Sinegal, an analyst at research firm Morningstar. ''Some of the more high-quality banks should be ready and willing to repay. It's clearly a management decision at this point.''
Some banks worry that issuing new stock would hurt existing investors. The banks would prefer to delay offerings for months, in the hopes their stock prices will be higher. ''They see tomorrow as a better day,'' said Mr. Scheiner of FBR.
Meanwhile, banks are using the emergency funds to finance long-term operations. In November, M&T, which owes taxpayers $750 million, bought another bailout recipient Wilmington Trust, for $351 million. At the time, M&T said it was aiming to repay TARP funds ''at some point in the near future.'' The bank turned a $736 million profit last year.
Citizens Republic Bancorp in Flint, Mich., which has $300 million in bailout capital, used the money to make more loans and buy mortgage-backed securities, according to government records.
But politicians and federal officials want healthy banks to follow the lead of SunTrust and KeyCorp, rather than worrying about the stock price or other issues.
''It's a better deal for the shareholders, not the taxpayer,'' said Representative Patrick T. McHenry of North Carolina, the Republican chairman of the House oversight committee's bailout panel. ''Any institution that's financially stable should pay back taxpayers as soon as possible.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: M&T, which owes taxpayers $750 million, bought another bailout recipient,Wilmington Trust, for $351 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SHAFFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Marshall & Isley, above, which owes the government $1.7 billion, agreed to a takeover by the BMO Financial Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY MANIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 CHARTS: I. (Still) O.U.: Wall Street banks have repaid the billions of taxpayer dollars they received through the Troubled Asset Relief Program. With the results of the Federal Reserve's bank stress tests now out, the pressure is on for several other banks to pay back taxpayers. (Source: United States Department of the Treasury) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); DIVIDENDS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%)

COMPANY: KEYCORP (90%); BANK OF BLUE VALLEY (60%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BSD BANCORP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (59%)

TICKER: KEY (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



433 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Programmer Is Sentenced to 8 Years for Stealing Code From Goldman

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
A former Goldman Sachs computer programmer convicted of stealing source code from the firm was sentenced on Friday to more than eight years in prison, capping a case that had shone a rare spotlight on the world of lightning-fast computer-driven trading.
A federal jury in Manhattan in December found the programmer, Sergey Aleynikov, guilty of stealing proprietary code that places trades using computer algorithms that spot tiny discrepancies in stock prices. Such trading earned Goldman about $300 million in 2009. 
Before leaving Goldman for a new job at a start-up, Teza Technologies, federal prosecutors had claimed, Mr. Aleynikov secreted the code onto a server in Germany to get around the investment bank's security systems.
The prison term, while at the low end of federal sentencing guidelines, was four times what probation officials had recommended. Prosecutors had asked for as much as 10 years.
The recent case in Manhattan of Samarth Agrawal, a trader at Societe Generale, who was convicted of stealing proprietary code from its high-frequency trading business was cited throughout the hearing. Mr. Agrawal was sentenced in February to three years in prison, less than the government's request.
''It is unprecedented for the government to seek a sentence five times as high as probation recommends and for the court to impose a sentence four times as high,'' said a defense lawyer, Kevin H. Marino.
Standing before the judge in a navy-blue jail uniform on Friday, Mr. Aleynikov, 41, maintained that what he did was a foolish breach of confidentiality, not a theft meant to benefit his new employer.
''I never meant to cause Goldman any harm,'' the Russian-born Mr. Aleynikov said in a heavy accent. ''I am sorry for the burden and emotional impact this trial has caused on my family, and my mother and children.''
But Judge Denise L. Cote of the Federal District Court in Manhattan likened his crime to ''economic espionage.''
Mr. Aleynikov's conduct, she said, ''deserves a significant sentence because the scope of his theft was audacious -- motivated solely by greed, and it was characterized by supreme disloyalty to his employer.''
''He knew what he was doing would harm Goldman Sachs,'' the judge said.
Mr. Aleynikov came to the United States from Russia in 1990, just before the fall of the Soviet Union. He spoke little English and, according to his lawyer, had just $300 in his pocket and an expertise in computer programming. Goldman paid him $400,000 a year to write code for its high-frequency trading business, making him one of the bank's highest-paid programmers.
In 2009, he was recruited by Teza Technologies, which offered to triple his salary. During his last three days before departing Goldman in early June of that year, he secreted large pieces of the code onto a server in Germany, and then deleted some of the evidence to hide what he had done, prosecutors had said.
On July 2, 2009, Mr. Aleynikov visited the offices of Teza, bringing with him a computer and storage device that contained some of the Goldman code. The following evening, six agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation arrested Mr. Aleynikov after he landed at Newark International Airport.
Mr. Aleynikov has been in jail since March 2, when the judge revoked his bail. The decision to incarcerate Mr. Aleynikov before his sentencing was prompted by a letter from federal prosecutors, who warned that Mr. Aleynikov had dual citizenship and posed a flight risk.
After the sentencing, his lawyer, Mr. Marino, asked the judge if his client could be placed on bail and be allowed to surrender himself when it came time to report to prison. When the prosecution protested, Mr. Marino called their objections ''mean-spirited.''
''O.K., I don't think it's mean-spirited,'' said Judge Cote, who denied the motion but agreed to reconsider at a later date. The judge recommended to the Federal Bureau of Prisons that Mr. Aleynikov be assigned to a federal prison in New Jersey.
Before he was taken from the courtroom, Mr. Aleynikov blew kisses to his family in attendance.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sergey Aleynikov, who said he meant no harm, got less time than prosecutors asked. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (94%); JAIL SENTENCING (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); PRISONS (90%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (74%); ESPIONAGE (73%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US SENTENCING COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); GLE (PAR) (56%); GLE (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (72%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



434 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: With Fed Consent, Banks Raise Dividends and Buy Back Stock

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
9:11 p.m. Updated
For long-suffering bank investors, the wait is over.
After securing the Federal Reserve's blessing, a series of financial giants rushed to raise their dividends and buy back stock on Friday, underscoring how Wall Street profits and an improving economy have helped the biggest banks stage a broad recovery since they were laid low by the financial crisis.
Within hours of being told by regulators they had passed a second round of stress tests, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and several other major lenders laid out specific plans. Meanwhile, American Express and Goldman Sachs announced they were resuming large-scale stock repurchases, with Goldman buying back the $5 billion stake it sold to Warren E. Buffett in the fall of 2008. 
Other institutions, like Capital One, PNC Financial and Bank of New York Mellon, took a more cautious stance, putting off for now plans to restore dividends to anywhere near the levels that prevailed just three years ago. Ally Financial, formerly known as GMAC, remained silent - it has not fully paid back its bailout funds.
Still, the news caused bank shares to rally, helping lift the overall market. The KBW Index, a popular measure of financial stocks, rose about 1 percent on Friday. Shares of JPMorgan climbed 2.65 percent, to $45.74. Wells Fargo shares rose to $31.83, a 1.5 percent increase.
''It signals the banking industry is back on its feet,'' said Jason Goldberg, an analyst at Barclays Capital. ''Once out of the penalty box, we look for the dividend payout ratios and earnings to grow over time.''
Since the beginning of January, the Fed has put the nation's 19 biggest lenders through an extensive review of their financial soundness, in an effort to determine whether they were strong enough to start returning capital to shareholders. Regulators tested the ability of the banks to cope with a range of economic shocks, including the possibility of a 1 percent decline in gross domestic product and unemployment of 11 percent this year. They also built in an assumption that housing prices would fall an additional 10 percent.
Still, some bank analysts doubted whether the stress tests were all that stressful. ''Although they still have the economy in a recession in 2011, they have home prices down an additional 10 percent,'' noted Frederick E. Cannon, the chief equity strategist at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. ''A lot of people are already expecting that in the current environment.''
In any case, Friday's results did not mark the end of stress tests; in fact, they are only the beginning. The Fed plans to make the kind of review that was just completed an annual event. In addition, as part of the financial regulatory reform bill passed by Congress last summer, the Fed is also preparing yet another battery of stress tests that would evaluate the ability of the biggest lenders to handle losses if the economy turned south.
This exam would provide regulators an apples-to-apples comparison of the financial condition of the banks and its findings would be made public. Whether or not the information is broken out for each bank, or released in aggregate, is still under discussion.
Now, banks are expected to review the Fed's latest findings with their boards but Friday's announcements highlighted how eager the strongest players are to start rewarding stockholders, who watched dividends all but disappear during the crisis.
Even so, payouts will not return to precrisis levels anytime soon. Most of the banks are phasing in the dividend increases over the coming quarters, instead of announcing a sharp increase. Also, regulators plan to limit dividend payouts to 30 percent or less of anticipated earnings for the remainder of 2011, and expect the banks to continue increasing their capital base. Before 2008, some large banks paid out 50 percent or more of their earnings to investors, leading many to look to bank stocks as a reliable source of income.
While the rally in financial shares Friday was broad, the news highlighted how much variation remains when it comes to the pace of the recovery of individual lenders. Among the strongest of the giants, JPMorgan will pay out 25 cents a share each quarter, up from 5 cents in the first quarter, and will buy back stock worth $15 billion. BB&T, which never cut its dividend, raised its quarterly payout by one cent, to 16 cents, and declared a special dividend of a penny. U.S. Bancorp increased its dividend by 150 percent, to 50 cents, and is planning to buy back as much as 50 million shares. State Street said it planned to raise its dividend to 18 cents from a penny and to buy back as much as $675 million worth of shares.
Wells Fargo stopped short of restoring higher regular dividend payments. Instead, it declared a special one-time payment of an additional 7 cents a share and said it would buy back 200 million shares.
American Express, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley have told investors they believe they can find more profitable ways to deploy their excess capital, like investing in their businesses or buying back stock in lieu of dividends. Capital One announced that it would maintain its dividend for the first quarter but expected that returning capital to shareholders would be ''an increasingly important source of value'' down the road.
Fifth Third Bank, PNC Financial and Bank of New York Mellon put out similar statements saying they planned to raise their dividends in the future, but offered no specific figures. Fifth Third's board plans to meet on Monday.
A handful of banks have previously warned investors not to expect an announcement anytime soon. Bank of America has said it plans to wait until the second half of the year to request permission from the Fed for a ''modest'' dividend increase. Citigroup has told investors that any dividend increase, or share repurchase program, would likely be a 2012 event.
MetLife said it was premature to make a public statement. Regions Financial, which has yet to repay its TARP funds, did not ask regulators for permission to act on dividends. In its news release, the Fed provided several explanations for why banks undergoing the stress test might not make an immediate statement. One is that the banks may have elected to hold onto the excess capital for now. Another is that Fed officials may have thought their proposed dividend increase too high, or that regulators were not comfortable with their capital planning process. Banks can resubmit their capital plans each quarter.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jamie Dimon, chairman and chief of JPMorgan Chase, which will quintuple its dividend and buy back $15 billion in shares. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMOHIRO OHSUMI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 Wells Fargo declared a one-time payment of an additional 7 cents a share and said it would buy back 200 million shares. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (92%); DIVIDENDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (65%); HOME PRICES (60%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (73%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (51%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (84%); AXP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (73%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (73%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (55%); WARREN BUFFETT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



435 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Radiation Fears Cloud Japan's Recovery

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Add fears of radiation to the long list of troubles threatening Japan's export-led economy.
As Japan struggles to contain radiation leaking from crippled nuclear reactors, many countries, including China, Indonesia, South Korea and Thailand have already started to test food imported from Japan for radiation, and the European Union has recommended that member countries do so. Manufacturers have also begun sweeping cars waiting for oversea shipment. No reports of significant product contamination have surfaced.
Some sushi restaurants in Asia are reportedly dropping fish from Japan from their menus. In Hong Kong there was a run on baby formula from Japan because mothers feared future supplies would be contaminated or unavailable. 
In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration said Thursday that it was considering increasing the monitoring of imported food and raw ingredients made in Japan, or that had traveled through the country. However, the agency said, ''based on current information, there is no risk to the U.S. food supply.''
Despite the excellent reputation of Japan's Kobe beef, premium tuna belly sushi or toro and fine sake, food is only a minor part of Japanese exports. The country imports far more food than it exports.
Far greater damage could occur if Japanese automobiles or electronics get contaminated with radiation, or if fear spreads among consumers that they could be exposed to radiation by sitting in a Prius or playing a DVD.
Among the steps that Japanese manufacturers are starting to take to reassure customers are trips to ports in Japan. For example, workers at Nissan, armed with radiation detectors, are testing some of the company's cars waiting to be shipped overseas. On Friday, Carlos Tavares, chairman of Nissan Americas, confirmed the scanning of autos: ''It's clear that we have found nothing, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't do it. We are just doing it to make sure nothing is there.''
Radiation experts said there was virtually no chance of major contamination of industrial products, even if the leakage were to worsen. Particles like the ones containing radioactive iodine or cesium escaping from the Fukushima Daiichi power plant can be deposited on products. But given the nature of the manufacturing industries in Japan, there is little danger of contamination reaching harmful levels, the experts said. For one, most manufacturing in Japan happens far from the nuclear plant (and many of the cars and electronics from Japanese companies are actually made outside Japan).
Moreover, manufacturing is usually done indoors. A product would most likely not be contaminated ''unless it sits outside for long periods and gets a significant amount of deposits on it,'' said William F. Morgan, director of radiation biology and biophysics at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. Also he noted, most products were in packages, and the radioactive particles would not damage the product inside. If a product is known to have deposited particles, they can be washed off, or a contaminated box could be opened by someone wearing gloves and thrown away.
Manufacturing is likely to be halted in areas with high levels of radiation. ''If the levels are high enough, that there would be a concern for a product being shipped, there would be a much greater concern for the people working there,'' said Jerrold T. Bushberg, director of health physics programs at the University of California, Davis, School of Medicine.
So if the nuclear accident hurts Japan's exports, some experts say, it is more likely to be attributable to disruptions in operations and logistics there, much as the earthquake and tsunami have done, not because the reactor damage is contaminating products. A huge plume of radiation heading toward Tokyo could bring commerce and manufacturing in that area to a halt. A nuclear meltdown at Fukushima could cause Japan to shut other nuclear plants as a precaution, adding to power outages.
Food is a much more pertinent issue for radioactive contamination because crops and animals are often raised outdoors and because they are ingested. Still, some experts say the risk is low to Americans because Japan accounts for only 4 percent of American food imports. And even less of that is food with the highest risk of contamination.
''We are not worried about imports from Japan, and we are not recommending that consumers be concerned,'' said Caroline Smith DeWaal, director of food safety at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer group.
She said that in the five years after the Chernobyl nuclear accident, which was far worse than Japan's radiation problem so far, only 1.4 percent of the food products entering the United States from Eastern Europe exceeded standards for radiation. Much of that was meat and poultry.
Imports of raw beef from Japan, including premium Kobe beef, have been suspended since last April, because of concerns about foot and mouth disease, according to a spokesman for the United States Department of Agriculture. Poultry and egg imports are barred because the Agriculture Department has not determined that Japan has a sufficient inspection system for those products. Dairy products can be contaminated if cows eat grass that radioactive isotopes have fallen on; this was a major source of radiation after the Chernobyl accident. But dairy accounts for only 0.1 percent of food imported from Japan, according to the F.D.A. There is also relatively little fresh produce.
Some seafood does come from Japan. However, much of the fish served in sushi restaurants here does not, and even fish caught by Japanese fleets might not be from waters near Japan.
The F.D.A. said it was taking steps to measure contamination in fish, but added, ''The great quantity of water in the Pacific Ocean rapidly and effectively dilutes radioactive material, so fish and seafood are likely to be unaffected.''
The United States Customs and Border Protection already monitors incoming cargo for radiation, part of the response to the Sept. 11 attacks. It said in a statement this week that it had instructed its field officers to specifically monitor maritime and air traffic from Japan.
''We don't have any dirty bombs or nukes coming through here because of these processes,'' said Ron Boyd, the chief of police at the Port of Los Angeles. He said he was confident that the procedures would also be able to detect radioactive cargo from Japan.
There are already reports of passengers arriving from Japan setting off radiation detectors at Chicago's O'Hare and at Dallas-Fort Worth airports, but those levels were reported to be very low. Customs and Border Protection said in a statement that no aircraft entering the United States ''has tested positive for radiation at harmful levels.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thai regulatory officials sampled frozen fish from Japan Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUNGROJ YONGRIT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B1)
 Food testing in Bangkok. No significant contamination has yet been found in Japanese products. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAIWAT SUBPRASOM/REUTERS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PHYSICS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); RADIATION DETECTORS (73%); BEEF (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); BIOLOGY (61%); BIOPHYSICS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) WEST USA (79%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); THAILAND (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



436 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: On Twitter, 'What a Party!' Brings an Envious 'Enough, Already!'

BYLINE: By AMY HARMON

 BODY:
@emilyolson: And ... I'm eating a taco next to Danny DeVito. #sxsw
@jacobwe: Should I go to Google Party? Tired, but also hungry. #Davos
Twitter users are tiring of it: the sharp pang of envy that comes when someone they are following on the social networking site is clearly having a better time than they are -- right now.
Recent tweets from attendees at elite conferences like TED and the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, have prompted bitter ripostes, accusing the authors of showing off rather than sharing. (From @davewiner: ''can't breathe their air, don't want their tweets.'') Even those tweeting from warm weather spots have felt the jealous wrath -- or ''jealz,'' in Twitter shorthand-- of followers stuck in frosty climes. (@Courtni--ROSE: ''I get it already!!!!'')
And this week, as thousands of the nation's Twitterati gathered at the annual South by Southwest technology and music festival in Austin, Tex., their exhaustive, real-time accounts of barbecue, beta tests and Jake Gyllenhaal sightings have prompted a backlash by those not in attendance. 
''It feels like high school,'' tweeted @JillVanWyke, who teaches journalism in Des Moines, as tweets from other journalism professors rolled in from Austin. ''All the cool kids are at a cool party, and I'm home on a Fri night.''
Even as Twitter says half a million people a day are signing up for the service, some of its most devoted users are warning that the tantalizing window it provides on the lives of friends, colleagues, rivals and celebrities can have a downside. In a blog entry, Caterina Fake, the co-founder of the photo-sharing sight Flickr, called the anxiety produced by the technology ''fear of missing out,'' or FOMO.
''If you didn't know that party was going on, you'd be home contentedly reading your latest New Yorker,'' Ms. Fake wrote. ''But since you do, you hungrily watch each new tweet.''
The festival, where Twitter first caught on four years ago, mixes new technology with music, film screenings and forecasts of the future of media.
Ms. Fake, who stayed home, said she noticed tweets from people at one party in Austin who wished they were at another party that friends were tweeting about from across town.
Disenchanted with the vicarious version, some Twitter users installed ''not at sxsw,'' software designed to block tweets tagged with the festival's moniker, which were emanating from Austin at a rate of 110 per minute, according to one measurement. Others have banished the most egregious offenders for good.
''Take one #sxsw, mix in 3 parts oversharing, 2 parts vanity, and unfollow liberally,'' advised Jonathan Hersh, 26, a software developer in San Francisco, invoking the hashtag symbol used to categorize tweets so they are easier to search for by subject.
While anyone with a Twitter account can ''follow'' any other user, the chosen can also be ''unfollowed'' with the click of a mouse. Some festival goers, aware that they might be alienating their Twitter fan base, sought to pacify them: ''To my followers who don't care about SXSW,'' one graphic designer apologized. ''Please don't unfollow me.''
But many users have been loath to edit anyone out of the network they have hand-selected, perhaps a testament to the power of what is often referred to, with affection, as the Twitter ''hive mind.'' As in: ''Does anyone in Hive Mind have access to a photograph of Doris Kearns Goodwin wearing a Boston Red Sox Hat?'' or ''Good Morning, hive mind.''
Zac Morris, 26, tweeted a threat to block messages from South by Southwest, but then backtracked. ''I don't want to miss anything important,'' said Mr. Morris, who relies on the hive for a mix of news, voyeurism, self-promotion and camaraderie. ''Even if it pains me.''
That pain, some Twitterverse inhabitants say, stems from the immediacy of the tweeted experience, relayed in 140-character increments -- often by cellphone -- as events unfold.
Without Twitter, Melody Lau, 20, a music writer in Toronto, might never have known when her friends were ''eating wicked food down in Austin and I'm here and it's snowing,'' she noted.
And if she did hear about it when they returned a week later, the envy quotient would have dissipated with time. Moreover, unlike blog posts or articles on a Web site, tweets appear in what users call ''my timeline'' and seem more personal, even when they are being sent to hundreds.
''The 'you are there' feeling is more powerful with Twitter,'' said Marc Smith, a sociologist who studies social networks, admitting to a jealous twinge himself as he measured festival tweets from his office in Belmont, Calif. ''So it raises the 'wish you were there' response more powerfully.''
If some blame the nature of the technology, others say Twitter envy is stoked by tone-deaf tweeters.
''Note to self,'' started one #sxsw tweet, reminding the author -- and several hundred of her far-flung followers --to be sure to try a trendy barbecue spot.
''How is that useful?'' fumed Art Allen, 26, a Web consultant home in Minneapolis.
The comedian John Hodgman's tweet from the TED conference this month that getting a massage had caused him to miss a good panel (''B Gates put together an amazing line up'') was of the type that prompted Jeffrey Zeldman to complain that TED tweeters ''aren't sharing knowledge,'' but rather ''letting you know they're at TED and reminding you you're not.'' (''Retweeted'' by many of Mr. Zeldman's 156,000 followers, the post seemed to strike a chord.)
Against the backdrop of the disasters in Japan, some accused Austin tweeters of particular insensitivity: ''My Twitter feed is a mix of Japan news and name-dropping drunk people at #sxsw parties,'' @saldarji wrote.
Still, some critics admit that they may just be feeling a little sorry for themselves.
''When so many people you know are at an invite-only affair that you weren't invited to, it makes you wonder how they could possibly have so much fun without you,'' said Dave Winer, a software developer who had vowed to unfollow tweeters from the Davos conference.
With Twitter users now generating a billion tweets a week, some might prefer uninhibited boasters to practitioners of the ''#humblebrag,'' who try to disguise self-promotion with self-deprecation -- usually not well. The practice has earned its own hashtag, as well as a tweeter devoted to exposing prime examples. (''Doesn't matter that I run a 5K a day at the gym -- I still can't lose those last few pounds!'')
Jacob Weisberg, the editor in chief of the Slate Group, who tweeted as @jacobwe about a Google party in the Swiss Alps, regrets that his post might have sounded a bit self-satisfied. But Twitter's appeal lies in the access it provides to people's stream of consciousness, he noted. ''The occasional misjudgments are a part of it,'' he said.
Emily Olson, who was in Austin to promote her company, 'Foodzie, said tweeting about seeing Danny DeVito at the taco bar was an instinctive desire to share the moment: ''It wasn't much more than, 'That's awesome.' ''
Not every tweet from the music fans who displaced the social media set as the festival wore on was about the awesome fireworks at the Strokes show.
One attendee tweeted a link to a picture of one hipster sporting what she suggested was an unfortunate fashion choice. It was, wrote @annielohr, a friend, ''your first #sxsw tweet that didn't make me wish I was there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Twitter posts from South by Southwest, a music and technology festival in Austin, Tex., have irritated those unable to attend. (A1)
 Some are blocking Twitter posts about the good times they are missing at South by Southwest. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); FESTIVALS (89%); CELEBRITIES (75%); WRITERS (75%); TEST MARKETING (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); MUSIC (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (92%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

PERSON: JAKE GYLLENHAAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (93%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



437 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: No Bribes for Nuclear Deal, India Premier Says

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- India's prime minister hit back at allegations that members of his party paid hefty bribes in exchange for support in a crucial vote to salvage the landmark civilian nuclear deal between India and the United States in July 2008, declaring in Parliament on Friday that no member of the Congress Party or his government had broken the law. 
''No one from the Congress Party or the government indulged in any unlawful act,'' Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said, adding that the claims that bribes had been paid were based on a leaked American diplomatic cable obtained by WikiLeaks that is ''unverified and unverifiable.''
On Thursday, a prominent English-language daily, The Hindu, published the confidential cable, written by an American diplomat several days before a confidence vote that was essential to passing the nuclear deal, a centerpiece of Mr. Singh's agenda.
The cable said an aide to a senior Congress Party official told an American diplomat that a small regional party whose votes were crucial had already been paid millions of dollars for its support, and showed off chests containing $25 million in cash he said was available for buying more votes.
Mr. Singh said that a parliamentary committee had already rejected the allegations. ''The committee concluded there was insufficient evidence to draw any conclusion of bribery,'' Mr. Singh said. Furthermore, the opposition had tried to persuade voters that the bribery scandal remained an important issue in the May 2009 general election, which Congress won handily.
''It is unfortunate that the opposition continues to raise those charges that have been debated, discussed and rejected by the people of India,'' he said.
In the past few months Mr. Singh has battled a relentless onslaught of corruption allegations, sapping what had seemed like one of the most stable and promising Indian governments in at least a generation of much of its power. Crucial issues, like deeper economic reforms and the remaking of creaky social safety net programs, have been largely sidelined as the government has been besieged by allegations of graft and bungling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EVIDENCE (73%); SCANDALS (73%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



438 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Undeterred by Reactor Crisis, U.S. and Chile Sign Nuclear Accord

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Pascale Bonnefoy contributed reporting from Santiago, Chile.

 BODY:
BRASILIA -- With fears of radiation spreading in Japan after the devastating earthquake there, Chile and the United States signed an accord on Friday intended to help Chile develop a nuclear energy program. 
Chile, a country that imports much of its energy, is considering building nuclear reactors to try to fill an expected energy gap in the next few decades. But the developing nuclear crisis in Japan has complicated the debate in Chile, which suffered an 8.8-magnitude earthquake last year that caused widespread destruction.
The three-page accord focuses on training nuclear engineers, not on building reactors. It calls for cooperation in the areas of ''operation and utilization of nuclear research reactors,'' safety, radioactive waste management and scientific exchange.
Chile's foreign minister and United States Ambassador Alejandro Wolff signed the accord, as had been previously scheduled, on Friday, and American and Chilean officials denied that its importance had been downgraded because of the concerns stemming from the Japanese disaster. It had been expected to be a highlight of President Obama's one-day visit to Chile on Monday.
Chile's mining and energy minister, Laurence Golborne, signed a similar accord with France last month. But Mr. Golborne said Tuesday that the government needed to carefully study the situation in Japan before committing to a nuclear program.
''We may decide we don't want this type of energy and we will have to analyze other sources of energy,'' he said.
Chile's senate president had lobbied to abandon the nuclear accord, and some lawmakers, frustrated at not being shown the wording in advance, have called Mr. Golborne to testify about it in hearings about Chile's energy future. That appearance was delayed until after Mr. Obama's visit next week.
Chilean officials are concerned that limits on the amount of energy the country may import and its outdated power grid will compromise the rapid growth of its economy. Chile will require a doubling of its energy supplies over the next 12 years if demand for electricity continues to grow at 6 percent a year, said Jorge Zanelli, a physicist who carried out a study of nuclear energy in 2007 for the previous Chilean government. More than 60 percent of that increase would have to be met with energy from fossil fuels if nuclear energy is not part of the equation, Mr. Zanelli said.
President Sebastian Pinera has also said the government should consider more sustainable renewable sources like solar, wind and geothermal power.
Critics of nuclear energy said what happened in Japan should be a warning call to Chile.
''Japan's nightmare this past week has been very timely for the Chilean government and society to understand what the real risks and vulnerability involved for seismic countries wishing to develop nuclear power,'' said Sara Larrain, executive director of Chile Sustentable, an environmental group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PHYSICS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); FEBRUARY 2010 CHILEAN EARTHQUAKE (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (77%); WIND ENERGY (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (73%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (72%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%)

COMPANY: ACCORD AS (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE (99%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



439 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: France and Britain Lead Military Push on Libya

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Rachel Donadio contributed reporting from Paris, Julie Werdigier from London, and Gaia Pianigiani from Rome.

 BODY:
PARIS -- France and Britain continued to press their hawkish position on Libya on Friday, saying they intend to take the lead in enforcing a no-flight zone.
Both countries, the most adamant backers of the United Nations Security Council resolution to authorize military action in Libya, also pointed to the passage of the measure on Thursday as an important -- if rare -- example of European resolve.
''Despite all negative comments, Libya shows that there is a political and diplomatic dynamic of European construction and an active European voice in world affairs,'' said Bernard Valero, the spokesman for the French Foreign Ministry. 
President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, perhaps still wary after he and other senior French officials were criticized as having too cozy a relationship with the now-toppled Tunisian government of President Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali, met with leaders of the Libyan opposition on March 10, and announced that France had recognized an inchoate opposition group as Libya's legitimate government. France's foreign minister, Alain Juppe, spoke openly this week of his unhappiness with Washington's slowness and difficulty in defining its position, before the Security Council voted for a no-fly zone.
France and Britain had been calling for a no-fly zone for two weeks, he said Wednesday, but other nations dragged their feet. ''It often happens in our recent history that the weakness of democracies gives dictators free rein,'' he said. ''It's not too late to break with this rule.'' He added that it was not enough just to call on Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi to quit, as leaders in the United States and other nations had done.
The day before, he vented to the French Parliament: ''Never mind that there's European impotence, but what about American power? What about Russian power? Russia is evolving, and the Americans haven't yet defined their position.''
The French-British forcefulness on Libya did not make all Europeans happy, either. Germany abstained in the vote at the United Nations and said it would not take part in military action. Italy, more dependent than others on Libyan natural gas and oil, reluctantly decided to allow its military bases to be used to enforce a no-fly zone to protect Libyan civilians, despite a 2008 friendship treaty with Libya. Rome has ''de facto suspended'' that treaty, in the words of the Italian foreign minister, Franco Frattini.
The British prime minister, David Cameron, has been almost as outspoken as the French about the need to use force against Colonel Qaddafi, despite the large cuts Mr. Cameron has made in military spending.
On Friday, after the Libyan government announced a cease-fire, both countries said they mistrusted Colonel Qaddafi and his promises. Britain started moving aircraft into place.
Mr. Sarkozy reiterated that France would convene an urgent meeting on Saturday of European, African and Arab leaders to make decisions about Libya. French officials said those taking part would include Mr. Cameron; Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany; the head of the Arab League, Amr Moussa; and the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon. President Obama said Friday that he would send Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to the meeting.
Mr. Juppe said that a meaningful cease-fire would have to cover the entire country, ''and not only Benghazi.'' He said the issue would be discussed on Saturday at the meeting. Military measures are ready, he said.
A French official who spoke on condition of anonymity said that possible targets for airstrikes would include the Qaddafi forces' airfields and the long supply line running from Tripoli to the loyalist forces pressing toward Benghazi. ''The threat is there, which is why we want to act fast,'' the official said. ''Libyan troops are only 150 kilometers from Benghazi,'' or about 93 miles. A naval blockade was also a possibility.
The official said that establishing a no-fly zone was not a major military problem because Libya had few operational fighter jets or helicopters.
Mr. Valero, the French Foreign Ministry spokesman, said that Colonel Qaddafi ''begins to be afraid, but on the ground, the threat hasn't changed.''
He added, ''We have to be very cautious.''
Mr. Cameron said of Colonel Qaddafi, ''We will judge him by his actions, not his words.''
In an interview with the BBC, Mr. Cameron added: ''What is absolutely clear is the U.N. Security Council resolution said he must stop what he is doing, brutalizing his people. If not, all necessary measures can follow to make him stop. That is what we agreed last night, that is what we are preparing for and we'll judge him by what he does.''
Mr. Cameron told the House of Commons that the British Air Force would deploy Tornado and Typhoon warplanes, ''as well as air-to-air refueling and surveillance aircraft.'' Spain, Norway and Denmark have said they will participate in imposing a no-fly zone.
German officials infuriated the French government with their opposition to such a zone, articulated by the foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle of the Free Democratic Party.
Italy, the closest large European nation to Libya, has vast economic interests there. Libya is a former Italian colony that now supplies 23 percent of Italy's natural gas and 13 percent of its oil. The major Italian energy company, Eni, which is partly state-owned, is the largest foreign oil company in Libya. Colonel Qaddafi has threatened to end all contracts with countries supporting intervention.
Paolo Scaroni, the chairman of Eni, criticized Western leaders for imposing sanctions against Libya, saying that Europe was ''shooting itself in the foot.''
In recent interviews in Italian newspapers, both Colonel Qaddafi and his son Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi said they felt ''betrayed'' by Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi.
Italy has also been reluctant to freeze Libyan assets, and Italian officials have warned of a new wave of refugees and immigrants from Libya.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Britain's Royal Air Force plans to deploy Typhoon warplanes like these in Coningsby to help enforce a no-fly zone over Libya. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER FURLONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%); FRANCO FRATTINI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%) FRANCE (98%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); TUNISIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2011



440 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; RACE REMIXED; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2070 words

HEADLINE: Black and White and Married in the Deep South: A Shifting Image

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
HATTIESBURG, Miss. -- For generations here in the deepest South, there had been a great taboo: publicly crossing the color line for love. Less than 45 years ago, marriage between blacks and whites was illegal, and it has been frowned upon for much of the time since.
So when a great job beckoned about an hour's drive north of the Gulf Coast, Jeffrey Norwood, a black college basketball coach, had reservations. He was in a serious relationship with a woman who was white and Asian.
''You're thinking about a life in South Mississippi?'' his father said in a skeptical voice, recalling days when a black man could face mortal danger just being seen with a woman of another race, regardless of intentions. ''Are you sure?''
But on visits to Hattiesburg, the younger Mr. Norwood said he liked what he saw: growing diversity. So he moved, married, and, with his wife, had a baby girl who was counted on the last census as black, white and Asian. Taylor Rae Norwood, 3, is one of thousands of mixed-race children who have made this state home to one of the country's most rapidly expanding multiracial populations, up 70 percent between 2000 and 2010, according to new data from the Census Bureau. 
In the first comprehensive accounting of multiracial Americans since statistics were first collected about them in 2000, reporting from the 2010 census, made public in recent days, shows that the nation's mixed-race population is growing far more quickly than many demographers had estimated, particularly in the South and parts of the Midwest. That conclusion is based on the bureau's analysis of 42 states; the data from the remaining eight states will be released this week.
In North Carolina, the mixed-race population doubled. In Georgia, it expanded by more than 80 percent, and by nearly as much in Kentucky and Tennessee. In Indiana, Iowa and South Dakota, the multiracial population increased by about 70 percent.
''Anything over 50 percent is impressive,'' said William H. Frey, a sociologist and demographer at the Brookings Institution. ''The fact that even states like Mississippi were able to see a large explosion of residents identifying as both black and white tells us something that people would not have predicted 10 or 20 years ago.''
Census officials were expecting a national multiracial growth rate of about 35 percent since 2000, when seven million people -- 2.4 percent of the population -- chose more than one race. Officials have not yet announced a national growth rate, but it seems sure to be closer to 50 percent.
The contour and the shade of the change are not uniform. In states like California, Hawaii and Oklahoma, where people of mixed race already made up a significant percentage of the total, the increases were smaller than in places like Mississippi, where there were far fewer mixed-race people to start with. In Hawaii, for instance -- where the multiracial group accounts for 23 percent of the population, highest of any state -- the growth since 2000 was 23.6 percent.
Also, in Hawaii, the predominant mix is Asian and white and native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, while in Oklahoma, it is American Indian and white. In Mississippi, the most common mix is black and white -- historically and today the two groups least likely to intermarry, sociologists say, because of the enduring social and economic distance between them. (It was also against the law until 1967.)
Mississippi led the nation in the growth of mixed marriages for most of the last decade, according to Mr. Frey's analysis of the American Community Survey. Still, multiracial people are a tiny percentage of the state's population: 34,000, about 1.1 percent. And many here complain of enduring racial inequities.
There was an uproar last year over comments by Gov. Haley Barbour suggesting that the civil rights era in Mississippi, with its sometimes fatal strife, was not that bad. And some are rankled that the state flag still contains a miniature version of the Confederate battle standard.
Nonetheless, many here also see progress, something akin to ''a door opening,'' in the words of one resident.
''Racial attitudes are changing,'' said Marvin King, a professor of political science at the University of Mississippi who is black, married to a white woman, and the father of a 2-year-old biracial daughter. ''Day in, day out, there is certainly not the hostility there was years ago, and I think you see that in that there are more interracial relationships, and people don't fear those relationships. They don't have to hide those relationships anymore.''
Mr. Norwood and his wife, Patty Norwood, agreed. ''It's been really smooth here,'' said Mr. Norwood, 48, a Hattiesburg resident for 11 years and a men's basketball coach at William Carey University. He had been most recently coaching at a college in the culturally diverse area of Cajun Louisiana. ''I think some people who may not have been comfortable with this in the past have no choice now. I mean, people always told me, the farther south you go, the more racism you'll feel. But that has not been true.''
Mrs. Norwood, 39, a photographer who is Thai and Chinese on her mother's side and white on her father's, added: ''I think if people see that you are genuine and in love, and that you are comfortable with yourselves, they are put at ease.''
And unlike in many states, Mississippi's population has not grown much over the last decade, suggesting to researchers that any change in culture is happening not primarily as a result of newcomers. (Mississippi's population grew by 3.8 percent since 2000. In contrast, North Carolina's grew 18.46 percent.)
''North Carolina grew rapidly with Hispanics and blacks and people coming in from out of state and changing things,'' Mr. Frey said. ''In Mississippi, I think it's changed from within.''
Changing Identities
The share of the multiracial population under the age of 18 in Mississippi is higher than its share of youth in the general population, suggesting that much of the growth in the mixed-race group can be explained by recent births. But in Mississippi and in other states, some growth may also be a result of older Americans who once identified themselves as black or some other single race expanding the way they think about their identity.
''The reality is that there has been a long history of black and white relationships -- they just weren't public,'' said Prof. Matthew Snipp, a demographer in the sociology department at Stanford University. Speaking about the mixed-race offspring of some of those relationships, he added: ''People have had an entire decade to think about this since it was first a choice in 2000. Some of these figures are not so much changes as corrections. In a sense, they're rendering a more accurate portrait of their racial heritage that in the past would have been suppressed.''
Experts say there are some elements, like military service or time spent on a college campus, that lay the groundwork for interracial relationships. With the Camp Shelby military base on its southern side and the University of Southern Mississippi as an anchor, perhaps it is not a surprise that Hattiesburg, a city of about 50,000 residents, and its surrounding counties would show rapid mixed-race growth.
They are also part of Mississippi's coastal culture, which has historically been more liberal and outward looking -- given the port towns -- than the rest of the state. (Harrison County, south of Hattiesburg and home to the Gulf Coast cities of Gulfport and Biloxi, has the highest share of mixed-race residents in the state, according to the 2010 census.)
Sonia Cherail Peeples, who is black, met her husband, Michael Peeples, who is white, in the science building at the University of Southern Mississippi in 2003, when they were both students. Friendship ensued, then a crush. ''I never dated a black girl before,'' Mr. Peeples confided. His family was ''old Mississippi,'' living mostly around Jackson. At one time, they ran a luggage company.
Sonia Peeples's ancestors were longtime Mississippians, too, but they were sharecropping cotton.
The differences in the past did not matter in the present, they both agreed.
''I really never thought twice about it,'' Mrs. Peeples, 29, said of dating Michael, 30. ''Everyone was open to it and I thought: 'He has potential. I could marry this guy!' ''
And she did. Now they have two boys: Riley, 3, and Gannon, 5, who Mrs. Peeples likes to say are ''black, white and just right!''
''It's a generational thing,'' Mr. Peeples added, noting that his mother has been hot and cold about the relationship over the years, accepting his new family, then sometimes pulling away for a while, only to return, drawn by her grandsons. ''I think many older people are set in their ways, but 40 years old or younger, you'll never get the sense that something's wrong,'' he said.
After college, the couple moved to Denver, but eventually decided to return to Hattiesburg, where Mr. Peeples works at a local dairy.
''I told the Realtor, 'Don't put us in a predominantly white or black neighborhood,' '' Mrs. Peeples recalled. ''And sure enough, we have a biracial kid next door.''
According to the census, multiracial people are more likely to live in neighborhoods that have a broad mix of races with a higher share of whites than those who identify as black alone. This suggests they enjoy higher socioeconomic status, Mr. Frey, the demographer, said.
Lingering Tensions
Still, for the Peeples family, there have been some testy moments. There was the time when another parent at Gannon's school asked if his terrible allergies had something to do with ''race mixing.'' And there was the hospital worker who treated Mrs. Peeples as though she was trying to snatch a white baby when she took Riley, who had blond curls, out of his crib in the nursery. ''This is my baby! He just looks like his dad,'' Mrs. Peeples, who has deep brown skin, remembered scolding the woman.
But both Sonia and Michael Peeples are mindful that those few incidents are insignificant in comparison to what previous generations endured.
''I would not have wanted to live in my parents' or grandparents' time,'' said Mrs. Peeples, a full-time homemaker. ''We're teaching our kids all of it, all their history. My 5-year-old asks, 'People who looked like you, why did they treat them so bad?' It's hard to explain to a biracial child in 2011. In a perfect world, race wouldn't matter, but that day's a while off.''
The Norwoods have also experienced minor tensions. A waitress at a restaurant might abruptly decide that she cannot serve their table. Even when they are locked arm in arm, someone might ask incredulously, ''Are you together?'' Clerks at the supermarket want to ring up their groceries separately.
But there is one place where they know that old thinking patterns are being challenged: at their church.
The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. called Sunday morning church service the most segregated hour in America, but one would not know that at Grace Temple Ministries, the neighborhood church where the Norwoods worship and socialize with other mixed-race families. The pastor is white and the assistant pastor is black, and the creative arts pastor is Latino. During a recent sermon, the congregation's guiding ethos on social issues was clear: ''Let us not be guilty of thinking as the culture and society decides,'' said the pastor, Dwayne Higgason.
Unlike the Peepleses, Jeffrey and Patty Norwood did not seek a diverse neighborhood, but found themselves in one anyway. In 2001, they bought the first home built on a developing street before any neighbors had even purchased lots. As houses sprang up, their neighbors turned out to be black families, white families and mixes of the two.
''Between our church and the neighborhood, this is the most diverse place I've been,'' said Mr. Norwood, a native of Tupelo, Miss. ''I've never experienced anything quite like this.''
Growing up in Victoria, Tex., Mrs. Norwood said she was never quite sure what race to mark on forms, and she hardly ever saw people like herself
''I usually went with Asian because I could only check one box,'' Mrs. Norwood said. ''Our daughter's life will not be like that. She knows what she is and she's exposed to a little bit of everything. The times have certainly changed.''
Race Remixed: Articles in this series will explore the growing number of mixedrace Americans. Previous articles: nytimes.com/national

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sonia Cherail Peeples and Michael Peeples, married with two sons, met as students at the University of Southern Mississippi. (A1)
The Peeples family at home in Hattiesburg. ''I really never thought twice about it,'' Mrs. Peeples said of dating a white man.
 Patty and Jeffrey Norwood, with their daughter, Taylor Rae, took part in the local St. Patrick's Day Parade. They have found Hattiesburg to be diverse and generally welcoming. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) CHART: Changing Mississippi (Source: William H. Frey, Brookings Institute analysis, based on 2005-2009 American Community Survey) (A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (88%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN MISSISSIPPI (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HATTIESBURG, MS, USA (92%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



441 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Battle Rages Over a College Radio Station's Sale

BYLINE: By REYHAN HARMANCI. 
rharmanci@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
In mid-January, the University of San Francisco abruptly took KUSF off the air.
In announcing the sale of the station -- which for 34 years beamed cutting-edge rock, public affairs and other programming to a diverse audience -- the university said KUSF would not be ending, but merely changing to an online-only format with an enhanced student presence. 
Since then, the station's community volunteers, a group called Save KUSF, have been furiously working to halt the sale, with the hope of eventually buying the signal.
In the meantime, the university's online radio efforts have stalled.
Miranda Morris, fund-raising and marketing coordinator of KUSF, estimated that the station used to reach around 30,000 weekly listeners at 90.3 FM, while around 20 people at a time currently listen online.
It seems that even in the digital age, a radio signal still matters.
Ken Freedman, station manager at the free-form radio station WFMU in New Jersey, said, ''It's not realistic for a terrestrial station to move online and maintain the same audience.''
Mr. Freedman, whose station has been helping Save KUSF's efforts, said a radio station needed both online and traditional broadcast components. Thanks to WFMU's donated broadband, Save KUSF will begin streaming live online as KUSF-in-Exile this weekend from a studio in the Bayview district.
Irwin Swirnoff, a former KUSF music director and a leader of Save KUSF, said, ''It's a temporary situation that will hopefully lead to us regaining a spot on the terrestrial dial.''
With a dedicated core group of around 30 volunteers, Save KUSF has mounted a spirited campaign against the station's $3.75 million sale to the Classical Public Radio Network, a nonprofit largely owned by the University of Southern California.
In addition to raising about $25,000 for legal fees to petition the Federal Communications Commission block the transaction, Save KUSF pushed the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, the San Francisco Democratic Party, State Senator Leland Yee and other political leaders to condemn the university's divestment publicly.
Local venues and musicians have been staging benefit shows, and music groups like Yo La Tengo have written statements in support.
In early March, Save KUSF's lawyers petitioned the F.C.C. to block the sale. The university said the largely volunteer-run station was losing money and not serving students.
''Not a single critic has explained why it is fair that our students foot the bill for a radio station run primarily by outsiders for the benefit of others,'' said Gary McDonald, a university spokesman.
Mr. Freedman said that moving online ''makes no sense'' economically. Steve Runyon, KUSF founder and current general manager, agreed, calling the sale ''a loss to the university.''
But Save KUSF hopes that the college's loss can be its gain.
''No one is questioning U.S.F.'s right to liquidate an asset,'' Mr. Swirnoff said. ''All we want is to have the opportunity to buy that transmitter.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel Everett, a lawyer and the former host of KUSF's ''Folk Law,'' with demonstrators outside City Hall in January. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EZRA EKMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MUSIC (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); STREAMING MEDIA (76%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (76%); INTERNET AUDIO (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); PUBLIC RADIO (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); BROADBAND (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



442 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; KEY; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 2764 words

HEADLINE: THE LAST TOWNIE

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

 BODY:
In a driving snowstorm in late February, the rural routes that lead into downtown Mount Morris, N.Y. (population 2,800), resembled the roads in the movie ''Fargo.'' They were windswept white landscapes, farmland on either side, lighted only by the occasional distant flickering taillight.
One of the few vehicles out -- a late-model maroon GMC pick-up -- belonged to Greg O'Connell, a rumpled former New York City detective. He's a big guy (6-foot-4, 270 pounds) with a big, bluff, outgoing personality. He's what you would get if you combined Tim Russert with the Southern poet James Dickey and slipped the result into a pair of overalls. Your hand disappears into his jumbo-size handshake like a baseball into a catcher's mitt. 
O'Connell's truck idles in Mount Morris's four-block-long downtown. He was parked in front of a small restaurant called Questa Lasagna (its motto: ''No freezers, no fryers'') that opened recently in one of the many buildings he owns here. O'Connell, who is 68, threw open his truck's passenger-/side door, cleared the seat of crumpled papers and declared in his broad Queens brogue, grinning up at the snow: ''Welcome to Mount Morris!'' His tires crunched as they began to roll through the frozen mess.
The truck is O'Connell's office. From its driver's seat, he has orchestrated the rebirth of Mount Morris, a western New York village located 40 miles south of Rochester. In the process he has confirmed his status as one of America's best-known progressive developers, a guy who is sometimes called the ''socialist developer,'' a label that makes him chuckle. ''I'm about community,'' he says. ''If you do things right, if you look at the long term, if you're fair, you don't have to look at the bottom line every two seconds. That'll take care of itself.''
Mount Morris needed a hero. Greg O'Connell was available. Like so many small upstate rust-belt towns, it was not prepared for the final quarter of the 20th century. Its manufacturing jobs evaporated. A new Interstate, I-390, bypassed it. Its ambitious kids went away to college and didn't look back. Its downtown became empty and funereal, thanks to the fluorescent allure of big-box stores like Wal-Mart not far away.
Things began to change in Mount Morris in 2007. That was when O'Connell quietly began buying up buildings -- he now owns 20 -- on Main Street. For some he paid as much as $140,000. Others he snatched up for $4,000 at tax-lien sales. Then he went to work. He restored the historic storefronts and interiors, cleaning the tin ceilings. He renovated the apartments on the second floors, bringing in fresh paint, oak and maple floors, new windows, nice bathrooms. He spent about $1 million on the properties, he says, and he expects, when all is said and done, to spend another million on renovations.
The results aren't hard to spot. In 2011 Mount Morris is, tentatively, blossoming. A roomy coffee shop, the Rainy Days Cafe and Bakery, with gleaming espresso machines, just opened in one of O'Connell's buildings. (''It kills me that the old guys in town meet to drink their coffee at McDonald's,'' he says.) So has a barbershop, an antiques store and a gourmet food shop that specializes in products from New York State. A deli is scheduled to open soon. Arts groups, he hopes, are on the way.
O'Connell charges these businesses as little as $100 a month in rent, but he asks for things in return. He's a longtime admirer of Jane Jacobs -- he used to carry her classic book, ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities,'' around like a talisman -- and he learned from her and other urban planners. O'Connell's leases require businesses to leave their lights on at night, to change their window displays at least four times a year and to stay open one evening a week. ''If this place is going to make it,'' he says, ''it's going to be a community effort.''
The $100 rents he offers, he insists, are not charity. He makes money, too, as much as $500 a month, from the apartments upstairs. In remaking Mount Morris, O'Connell is revisiting his own playbook, the one he used to rehabilitate Brooklyn's once-deserted waterfront Red Hook area. It was a project that lasted decades, one that put O'Connell on the map and made him a millionaire many times over. Starting in 1982, the year after he retired from the N.Y.P.D., he began buying run-down buildings in Red Hook, then an area known for its drug addicts and prostitutes. He renovated one building at a time, before moving on to the next. He saw the area's potential before anyone else did and bought his properties -- many from the city, which no longer wanted them -- at nominal prices. ''You've got to buy things right,'' he says. ''You've got to be 15 to 20 years ahead of the trends.''
These days he is Red Hook's largest landowner. He owns about 25 buildings that house 200 businesses that employ 2,000 workers, as well as acres of undeveloped land. In 2006 a bustling Fairway supermarket opened in an abandoned building he had purchased from the city's Economic Development Corporation. O'Connell is a gentrifier of a sort, albeit one who loathes most of what we've come to think of as gentrification. He likes a healthy mix of light industry, small business and upstairs apartments. Many credit him with keeping Red Hook from becoming a voluptuous horror of luxury condominiums. He's proud of the fact that he has never flipped a building. ''Even when it was fashionable, I never did that,'' he says.
O'Connell has his critics, who claim he has bought property inexpensively from the city and has not done enough with it. (''Some things take time,'' he replies.) But his critics are vastly outnumbered by his admirers.
''Greg builds relationships with low-income populations, and he doesn't take quick profits,'' says Ronald Shiffman, co-founder of the Pratt Center for Community Development, the nation's largest public-interest architectural and community-planning organization. ''He preserves great old buildings and brings new artisans into them. He likes to get his hands dirty and to figure things out with his tenants. I've rarely come across anyone like him in my 40 years working in housing and development.''
Marilyn Gelber, president of the Brooklyn Community Foundation and a former commissioner of New York City's Department of Environmental Protection, says: ''I don't even associate him with the term 'developer.' He's driven by values and principles.''
O'Connell blushes when he hears encomiums like these. But he's being forced to get used to the praise. On the day I arrived in Mount Morris, the local Red Hat Society -- a social organization mostly for older women -- was giving him a lunch to formally announce the town's Greg O'Connell Appreciation Day, scheduled for May 1. ''I guess I oughta go,'' he said sheepishly.
Later, when we were back in his truck, he admitted that the recognition made him anxious. ''The trick isn't getting this town going,'' he said. ''It's making everything work in the long run.'' He worries whether he can bottle the magic one more time, especially in a place, unlike the Red Hook of three decades ago, that lacks a large nearby urban population and any shred of raffish hipster elan. Why would young people move here?
He worries about what will happen to this place -- where the largest tourist draw is a state park and where the leading industry is agriculture -- when he's not around anymore. He worries he's not doing enough to demonstrate that his ideas will work in other deserted downtowns. A lot of the big questions about Mount Morris, he fears, won't be answered for a while.
There's a funny moment in Martin Amis's 1984 novel ''Money'' in which his narrator declares: ''Unless I specifically inform you otherwise, I'm always smoking another cigarette.'' About Greg O'Connell, it feels safe to say: Unless I specifically inform you otherwise, his cellphone is always pinging. O'Connell doesn't do e-mail or send text messages. He knows what the Internet is, sort of, but he has never surfed it. ''I'd rather get out and drive around,'' he says. ''I need to look at things and talk to people, see what's going on. Maybe when I'm older and I can't walk so well. Then I'll figure out the Internet.''
Sometimes the phone calls are from his two sons, Michael and Gregory. They work for him back in Brooklyn, and he talks to them daily. Sometimes it's his work crews, asking about a sticky construction problem. Sometimes it's his wife, Elizabeth, wondering if he'll be home for dinner. (Too often, he isn't. Town meetings are on weeknights.) Sometimes the calls are from young, progressive capitalists seeking his advice.
One of O'Connell's phone pals is Rob Kalin, the 30-year-old founder of Etsy, the online marketplace where artists and craftspeople mingle and sell their work. Etsy rents 9,000 square feet of work space from O'Connell in Red Hook. (Its main offices are in Dumbo.) The pair hit it off so well that O'Connell brought Kalin -- who is short and slim to O'Connell's tall and burly -- up to Mount Morris to talk to local craftspeople. ''He's trying to figure out how to do big things with small businesses, the same way Etsy is,'' Kalin says. ''He's a rare kind of guy. He helps people in a way that doesn't require charity.''
Kalin pauses for a minute and declares, without irony: ''Being around Greg O'Connell is what I imagine meeting one of the Founding Fathers would be like.''
O'Connell grew up in Queens, where his father was a police officer and his mother was a teacher. ''All my relatives were firemen, teachers or cops,'' he says. ''I had five uncles living within three blocks of me and maybe 27 cousins.'' (Two of his three brothers also became policemen.) He graduated from Holy Cross High School in Flushing. He first saw Mount Morris when he attended nearby SUNY Geneseo in the early 1960s. At the time, tuition was free. ''I give Nelson Rockefeller a lot of credit for the state university system,'' he says.
He majored in education and was a substitute teacher for a while. Even then, he was drawn to tough projects. ''I always liked the bad boys,'' he says. ''The kids that had some life in them. The trick was to be firm but fair. You know, turn them around.''
O'Connell joined the N.Y.P.D. in 1964. He worked in an elite tactical unit that patrolled high-crime areas during the turbulent late '60s before being promoted to detective. He worked on the Upper West Side in the years when Lincoln Center was being built and in SoHo just as that area was coming back to life as the art market exploded there in the 1970s and '80s. The job taught him how to talk to people. And it gave him the opportunity to see and to develop an appreciation for a lot of real estate.
He bought his first building in 1967, a little place on Henry Street in Brooklyn's Cobble Hill. He paid $22,000 for it. He renovated it himself while living in the basement. He still owns it. ''I'd wanted to buy a brownstone on the Upper West Side or in Brooklyn Heights,'' he says. ''I saved for years. I lived with my parents. But they were too expensive for me.'' Back then, he says, lending was tight. You needed to put $9,000 down on a $22,000 building.
By the time he retired from the force, in 1981, he owned more than 30 buildings, most in Cobble Hill. He paid cash for almost all of them. ''I didn't find these places through brokers,'' he says. ''I found them because I lived there.'' He slowly expanded into Red Hook. The rough neighborhood didn't trouble him. ''I was a detective, I could handle drug dealers,'' he says. ''I'd try to talk with them. If that didn't work, I'd say: 'I know what you're doing. I'm going to make a call.' ''
Marilyn Gelber was a young city planner in the mid-1970s, assigned to survey Red Hook. ''I was walking along a deserted street one day and up pulls this pickup truck,'' she says. ''A nice blue-collar guy in overalls leans out and says to me, incredulously, 'What are you doing here?' He was worried for me. He told me which doors I might not want to knock on. We hit it off immediately. We were both there for the same reason.''
O'Connell learned primal development lessons in Red Hook. He pushed for tax abatements. He learned to challenge the assessments on buildings. He discovered how to find grants to help him with the work he had already begun. And after achieving a lot of what he wanted to do there, he began thinking about Mount Morris, a sweet little town he remembered from his college days.
There was a house in Geneseo he admired, too, a colonial on 57 acres. ''I'd ride past it all the time on my scooter back when I was in college,'' O'Connell says. ''It belonged to a judge. I'd say to myself, 'I want to own that house someday.' And 25 years later I bought it.'' These days he spends about half the year in Brooklyn, half in Geneseo.
IT WAS STILL SNOWING FURIOUSLY OUTSIDE: it was a snow-globe sky. We were sitting in Just a Cut, a cozy hair salon located in the first building O'Connell bought here. The owner, Janeen Pellicane, snipped a man's hair while listening to us gab. O'Connell explained why he, with his real estate business, the O'Connell Organization, bought buildings in Mount Morris so quickly. ''To really make an impact, you have to have critical mass,'' he said.
Outside of the Just a Cut window, a truck glided by, laying down road salt. O'Connell grinned. He's a major investor in American Rock Salt, a rock-salt mine that is the area's largest private employer. This snowy winter has been good to him. ''I invest in people, not businesses,'' he said. ''I don't know about rock salt. But I've known the guy who owns the company since college.''
About rock salt, though, he's learning. ''We can't compete with the prices from Chile,'' he said. ''So we bid to be an emergency supplier, because cities can run out of road salt. When that happens, we'll run a hundred trucks down to New York City.''
O'Connell kept gazing out the window. The western side of Main Street still worries him. There's a storefront church there and some social-service buildings and a bank. It's the side of the street that's still mostly dark at night. ''My big hope,'' he said, ''is to see this street come alive. I want to see people wandering around, holding hands, looking in windows.''
On a frigid winter day, this vision seemed almost a flight of fancy. And you wonder if O'Connell's nostalgia for his college haunts had got the better of him. There's not a lot to attract people to Mount Morris. But O'Connell has thought this through, and there are embers of light that he hopes to coax into warming flames. Nearby Letchworth State Park, whose vistas have given it the nickname ''the Grand Canyon of the East,'' is a potent local draw: it attracts almost three-quarters of a million visitors each year. Sixty-two percent of those people pass through Mount Morris, and the village needs to slow more of these people down as they drive through. Two of the Finger Lakes -- Conesus and Hemlock -- are nearby. They're havens for sportsmen and -women.
About 140 people in nearby Dansville lost their jobs a decade ago when Foster Wheeler, an engineering and construction company, shut its plant there. But Kraft Foods makes Cool Whip and Lunchables less than 20 miles away in Avon, halfway between Mount Morris and Rochester, and Barilla operates a pasta-making plant in Avon as well. Both have increased production in recent years and provide solid local jobs.
The area is horse country too, O'Connell points out. He's taking advantage of that fact by placing hitching posts behind a few of his buildings. (It's fun to imagine O'Connell, the lumbering giant of Queens, on a horse.) But he wants more going on. He's thinking about festivals and arts events. Maybe hire an ice sculptor to work on Main Street in the winter, someone who can carve wood there the rest of the year. ''You know,'' he says, ''a family can still buy a nice house here for $50,000 to $60,000.''
O'Connell's back isn't what it used to be. He's not climbing scaffolding anymore. But he's far from ready to retire. ''I don't really have hobbies,'' he says. ''I might see a Bills game once in a while.'' He has purchased a few buildings in two nearby villages, Dansville and Perry. But he says, ''My wife would kill me if I did another town.''
His wife, he says, already complains that he doesn't see enough of his two very young grandkids. ''You know what?'' O'Connell says. ''She might be right. But when they can walk and talk and wear overalls, I'll kidnap them.'' He extends an arm down Main Street. ''I'll put them in the truck. I'll show them everything.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MM55)
 DREAM AND VISION: Main Street in Mount Morris remains a work in progress. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RIGOBERTO PERDOMO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM57) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (62%); RETAILERS (50%)

PERSON: TIM RUSSERT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



443 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: A Food's Global Success Creates a Quandary at Home

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO and SARA SHAHRIARI

 BODY:
LA PAZ, Bolivia -- When NASA scientists were searching decades ago for an ideal food for long-term human space missions, they came across an Andean plant called quinoa. With an exceptional balance of protein and amino acids, quinoa, they declared, is virtually unrivaled in the plant or animal kingdom for its life-sustaining nutrients.
But while Bolivians have lived off it for centuries, quinoa remained little more than a curiosity outside the Andes for years, found in health food shops and studied by researchers -- until recently.
Now demand for quinoa (pronounced KEE-no-ah) is soaring in rich countries, as American and European consumers discover the ''lost crop'' of the Incas. The surge has helped raise farmers' incomes here in one of the hemisphere's poorest countries. But there has been a notable trade-off: Fewer Bolivians can now afford it, hastening their embrace of cheaper, processed foods and raising fears of malnutrition in a country that has long struggled with it. 
The shift offers a glimpse into the consequences of rising global food prices and changing eating habits in both prosperous and developing nations. While quinoa prices have almost tripled over the past five years, Bolivia's consumption of the staple fell 34 percent over the same period, according to the country's agricultural ministry.
The resulting quandary -- local farmers earn more, but fewer Bolivians reap quinoa's nutritional rewards -- has nutritionists and public officials grasping for solutions.
''As it's exported, quinoa is now very expensive,'' said Maria Julia Cabrerizo, a nutritionist at the Hospital de Clinicas, a public hospital here. ''It's not a food of mass consumption, like noodles or rice.''
Quinoa, domesticated thousands of years ago on Bolivia's arid high mountain plains and now often misrepresented as a grain, is actually a chenopod, related to species like beets and spinach. Its seeds have a light, nutty taste, and when cooked become almost translucent.
While the Incas relied on quinoa to feed their soldiers, it was only recently that Bolivian farmers, with the help of European and American foreign aid organizations, started growing quinoa for export.
The focus on foreign markets has altered life in isolated places like Salinas de Garci Mendoza, a community on the edge of the salt flats in southern Bolivia where much of the country's quinoa is produced. Agricultural leaders claim that rising exports of the plant have lifted living standards there and in other quinoa-growing areas.
''Before quinoa was at the price it is now, people went to Argentina and Chile to work,'' said Miguel Choque Llanos, commercial director of the National Association of Quinoa Producers. Now, he said, rising quinoa prices have also encouraged city dwellers to return to their plots in the countryside during planting and harvest seasons.
Yet there are causes for concern. While malnutrition on a national level has fallen over the past few years thanks to aggressive social welfare programs, Ms. Cabrerizo, the nutritionist, said studies showed that chronic malnutrition in children had climbed in quinoa-growing areas, including Salinas de Garci Mendoza, in recent years.
In Salinas de Garci Mendoza and elsewhere, part of this change is due to climbing quinoa prices and more quinoa being destined for export.
''I adore quinoa, but I can't afford it anymore,'' said Micaela Huanca, 50, a street vendor in El Alto, a city of slums above the capital, La Paz. ''I look at it in the markets and walk away.''
Officials in President Evo Morales's government say that changing food preferences and increased ability to buy processed foods also play a role.
''It has to do with food culture, because if you give the kids toasted quinoa flour, they don't want it; they want white bread,'' said Victor Hugo Vasquez, vice minister of rural development and agriculture. ''If you give them boiled water, sugar and quinoa flour mixed into a drink, they prefer Coca-Cola.''
The shift away from consuming quinoa in the cradle of its cultivation has alarmed some of the plant's top marketers in the United States, where quinoa is increasingly coveted by health-conscious consumers.
''It's kind of discouraging to see stuff like this happen, but that's part of life and economics,'' said David Schnorr, the president of the Quinoa Corporation of Los Angeles, one of the largest importers of quinoa in the United States, which has worked with Bolivian producers since the 1980s.
Mr. Schnorr said quinoa's climbing prices in the United States were raising other concerns as well. ''At $5 a box, only so many people can afford that,'' he said, adding that he would prefer a price about half that amount. ''I've always been an advocate of expanding the market, keeping the prices to a point where more people can try it.''
Here in Bolivia, government officials are trying to increase domestic quinoa consumption, even as the product faces steep competition from other foods. At supermarkets here, a 1,000-gram bag of quinoa, just over two pounds, costs the equivalent of $4.85, compared with $1.20 for a bag of noodles the same weight and $1 for a bag of white rice.
President Morales said this month that he planned to make more than $10 million in loans available to organic quinoa producers, and health officials are incorporating the plant into a packet of foods supplied to thousands of pregnant and nursing women each month.
Mr. Vasquez, the rural development official, said quinoa would also be available in meals for the armed forces and in more school breakfasts. ''That's already under way in some municipalities,'' he said, ''but we want to expand.''
Some here cling to eating quinoa despite its rising price. Paulina Vasquez, 52, a housekeeper and mother of three children in their 20s who live with her in a poor district on a steep mountainside of La Paz, sows the crop each year on her family's land outside the city. The packaged quinoa found in supermarkets is beyond what her family can afford.
Instead, they harvest their own, store it and then prepare it by hand, a painstaking process that includes washing away the resinlike saponin coating that protects the seeds. Ms. Vasquez regularly prepares a sweet drink of quinoa, apple, cinnamon and sugar for her family for breakfast.
But she says many in the younger generation have moved away from it. ''People my age and older are eating quinoa,'' Ms. Vasquez said. ''The young people don't want it. If there is a pot of noodles everyone is there, as if noodles were nutritious. Even my children are that way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, women weighing a bag of quinoa in a local market in Batallas, Bolivia. Left, a quinoa plant flowering three months before it will be harvested. Below, quinoa being prepared: it must be rolled, sorted and washed numerous times. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH FRIEDMAN-RUDOVSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (89%); NUTRITION (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); MALNUTRITION (78%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (74%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (72%); ANIMALS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



444 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: N.F.L. and Players Spar in Dueling Letters

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
N.F.L. players, angered by a letter sent to them by Commissioner Roger Goodell last week that urged them to tell their leaders to return to the bargaining table, responded Saturday with a pointed four-page missive that rebutted the league's characterization of the negotiations and its most recent offer to players.
The letter represents the latest salvo in a week of public sniping between the sides since negotiations collapsed March 11, leading the union to dissolve and owners to lock out players. An April 6 hearing in federal court in Minneapolis will be held on the players' request for an injunction to lift the lockout. 
The players' letter, composed during a meeting of player representatives in Marco Island, Fla., begins by telling Goodell -- in bold-faced type -- that players were at negotiations and ''know the truth'' about what caused the union to decertify. The players repeated their complaint that just a few owners actively participated in negotiations and said players did all they could to make a deal that addressed the owners' concerns over costs.
On Friday, linebacker Mike Vrabel, who is on the players' executive committee, said players would resume negotiations but only directly with owners, not with Goodell, the lead negotiator Jeff Pash or the outside counsel Bob Batterman.
''In response, the owners never justified their demands for a massive give-back which would have resulted in the worst economic deal for players in major league pro sports,'' the letter reads.
Then, noting that players are troubled that owners have claimed to meet players halfway in negotiations, the letter says, ''Your statements are false.''
The letter then goes into detail about the owners' proposal, which the players say would have resulted in the players' share of revenue suffering a ''massive'' decrease. It says that when players viewed the owners' most recent proposal, which was delivered at midday March 11, players found ''it was worse than the proposal the N.F.L. had made the prior week when we agreed to extend the mediation.''
The letter concludes by telling Goodell that if he wants to discuss a settlement, he should contact the lawyers who are now representing players in their antitrust lawsuit. The letter is signed by members of the players' executive committee.
The league responded, saying that the players' letter ignored several economic details of the owners' proposal, particularly that player costs would be $19 billion to $20 billion over the next four seasons, and that the offer was intended to keep negotiations going.
Then the league tweaked players for ending negotiations. ''We are pleased now to have received a reply to the comprehensive proposal that we made eight days ago,'' Pash, the N.F.L.'s executive vice president and lead negotiator, said in a statement. ''The points made in the players' letter are precisely the kind of points that collective bargaining is intended to address.''
It continued: ''This letter again proves that the most sensible step for everyone is to get back to bargaining. So we again accept Mike Vrabel's suggestion that the union's executive committee meet with our negotiating team, including Jerry Richardson, Robert Kraft and Jerry Jones, to resume bargaining. If Mike will let us know when and where he and his colleagues would like to meet, we will be there. We are ready.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOCKOUTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); LAWYERS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); INJUNCTIONS (70%); ATHLETES (66%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



445 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Unfinished Business At O'Hare

BYLINE: By DAVID GREISING. 
dgreising@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
Mayor Richard M. Daley will be in China next week, home of the magnetically levitated train that whisks passengers from downtown Shanghai to Pudong International Airport -- just like the one he had hoped to introduce in Chicago.His trip comes a week after he had to accept a compromise plan that formally delays the final phase of the O'Hare Airport expansion. 
'The yin and yang of Mr. Daley's final days in office show how mayoral dreams sometimes run into economic reality.
The reality is that he got all he could, for now, from the airlines and the federal government in last week's $1.17 billion deal. The stalemate is broken, and a partial O'Hare expansion moves forward. Mr. Daley has clumped the yet-to-do list into a Phase 3 that his successor must handle.
Among the unfinished -- rather, unstarted -- business that was part of the original $6.6 billion O'Hare Master Plan unveiled in 2001: A western terminal, a direct connection to the East-West Tollway, a system to circulate traffic from the Kennedy Expressway on the east to the new complex on the other side of the airport and a special C.T.A. express line to O'Hare. The idea of a high-speed rail link came later.
The budget has grown. The city acknowledges that costs will be at least $1 billion higher than original estimates. Other estimates have put the cost of expansion and improvement plans in and around O'Hare at more than $15 billion.
Without the power of Mr. Daley's dreams -- and mayoral clout and cunning -- O'Hare expansion would not have gotten as far as it has. ''It's remarkable this expansion is moving forward given the decade-long financial weakness the airline industry has faced,'' said Mary Rose Loney, a former Chicago aviation commissioner who is now a consultant.
With Mr. Daley on his way out, major nongovernmental players are scrambling to keep momentum going on projects outside the O'Hare fences. Civic and business leaders, and political heavyweights both in and out of office, are working behind the scenes to make certain that concrete eventually is poured and roads are built. There are the O'Hare West Bypass Advisory Council, the Civic Committee, Metropolis Strategies (formerly Metropolis 2020) and others.
A chief focus is on the Elgin-O'Hare West Bypass project, budgeted at $3.57 billion. That money is nowhere to be seen, but the group promoting the project is talking about a combination of federal and state funds, bonds tied to anticipated tollway revenue and private investment.
''In the very near term, a full build-out of the cluster of projects around O'Hare is needed,'' said James C. LaBelle, vice president of Metropolis Strategies. ''It's needed to accommodate the kind of growth that can reasonably be anticipated in the next few years.''
Some of the investment may come from China. This week, Mr. Daley is hoping that Chinese investors might help build an express train to take people from downtown's Block 37 to the former orchard on the city's Northwest Side that his father turned into an airport.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AIRLINES (89%); MAGNETIC LEVITATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUDGETS (75%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (73%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); EAST CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



446 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SPOTLIGHT NEW JERSEY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: 150 Works Coming To Screens At Festival

BYLINE: By TAMMY LA GORCE

 BODY:
DIANE RAVER, executive director of the Garden State Film Festival, likes to think of the event she founded nine years ago in Asbury Park as a populist's film buff gathering. 
''If you go to some of these other film festivals, you'll never meet any of the celebrities,'' said Ms. Raver, 57, of Sea Girt. ''My celebrities are right there at the same parties as everybody else. You don't have to be somebody of great importance to get in, because we don't have any barriers. It's a cultural event for everyone.''
This year's festival, to be held March 31 through April 3 at theaters, clubs and restaurants throughout Asbury Park and in nearby Ocean Township, will include opportunities to mingle with Clarence Clemons, saxophonist of the E Street Band, the actress Lainie Kazan and Steve Sabol, president of NFL Films.
Among the 150 dramas, shorts, music videos, documentaries and other types of films to be screened will be the world premiere of the documentary ''Who Do I Think I Am?'' Directed by Nick Mead and co-produced by Mr. Clemons, it's about Mr. Clemons's trip to China. The film ''Expecting Mary,'' written and directed by Dan Gordon, and with a cast that includes Ms. Kazan, Linda Gray and Elliott Gould, will have its New Jersey debut.
Mr. Sabol, recipient of the festival's Lifetime Achievement Award this year, will introduce the docudrama ''Jackie Robinson: My Story,'' about the legendary baseball player, which is having its New Jersey premiere.
There will be symposiums and post-screening question-and-answer sessions with directors and filmmakers.
''There's something for everybody,'' said Ms. Raver, including horror fans and children; blocks of screening time are set aside for both genres.
Ms. Raver estimates that the festival's five film-industry judges watch 700 films submitted from around the world each year before deciding, in January, which movies will be shown.
Special consideration is given to New Jersey filmmakers. ''We give a series of awards called the Home Grown Awards for films shot in the state, as an impetus for people to shoot here and add to the economic vitality,'' she said. This year, 52 films shot in New Jersey are contenders. There are no cash prizes.
''This is more an opportunity to show off the work these artists have accomplished, for them to be proud,'' Ms. Raver said. ''Not all riches are monetary, especially in film.'' TAMMY LA GORCE
The Garden State Film Festival runs March 31 to April 3 in Asbury Park and Ocean Township. Tickets range from $10 for a screening block of 90 minutes to two hours to $125 for the awards dinner on April 3. Information and tickets: gsff.org or (877) 908-7050.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TRIP TO CHINA: An image from the documentary ''Who Do I Think I Am?'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK MEAD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (93%); FILM DIRECTORS (91%); FILM (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); ATHLETES (68%); MUSIC (68%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (67%); BASEBALL (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



447 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Share The Risk And Share The Harvest

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. SHILLER. 
Robert J. Shiller is professor of economics and finance at Yale and co-founder and chief economist of MacroMarkets LLC.

 BODY:
NOT so very long ago, most Americans lived on farms, with three generations under one roof: grandparents, parents and children.
Farming was -- and still is -- a risky undertaking. Sometimes, you have good weather and abundant crops, sometimes bad weather and meager crops. How did our forebears manage their risks, which were as significant for them as the booms and busts of our 21st-century economy are to us?
In good times, all three generations consumed a lot. In bad times, all three consumed less. The risks were spread among the extended family. This is risk management at its most basic level. It is called sharing. 
The farmers worked hard, and when they grew old, they were supported by the next generations. The elderly weren't treated differently. Everyone shared in the good and the bad, with adjustments for health and special needs.
Let's apply modern financial thinking to the old-time farm. Rather than sharing, families could set up traditional pension plans like the ones now established for state government employees. In this situation, the extended family would guarantee some of their working adults a fixed income when they retired. If farming families followed our thinking, they would pledge some set percentage of what people had consumed during their last three working years -- say, 60 percent. These ''payments'' would be indexed to inflation, assuming that inflation was a concern in those days.
Down on the farm, however, they would probably laugh at this notion. That's because, when hard times come -- as they always do -- the children and working adults would have to cut back in order to pay the full ''pensions'' of the old. Younger generations would be hit with a double-whammy, having to make do with less themselves while having to sacrifice more to meet their contractual obligations to their elders.
In a sense, this is what is happening to us now, as the slack economy increases our tax burdens to support state pensioners. Working people in the private sector know this, and it is no surprise that some of them are upset. That is ultimately why they are pushing to drop traditional government pensions.
But wait. To make things even worse, standard modern finance has more to say. The conventional wisdom is that traditional government pension plans must be fully funded. That would be like assigning a part of the farm -- a flock of sheep, say -- to a pension trust fund that would then foot the bill for some of the farm's future retirees. Every time those sheep were sheared, the profits would accrue to the pension fund.
If the flock did not produce prosperity -- if the price of sheep collapsed, for example -- we would say that the farm's pension plan was underfunded. We would ask the children and all working adults to sacrifice more and buy more sheep for the fund.
That, too, is essentially what is happening today, as underwhelming investment returns on state pension funds are forcing governments either to raise taxes or to cut spending on things like schools and health services. During the financial crisis, the funds' investments soured along with the economy, so working people are dealing with the effects of tightened state budgets at a particularly difficult time.
Gov. Jerry Brown of California referred to these inequities in his State of the State message in January. ''We must also face the long-term challenge,'' he said, ''of ensuring that our public pensions are fair to both taxpayers and workers alike.''
Economic theorists disagree about whether public pension funds should be fully funded, or even funded at all. The economic issues turn out to be surprisingly complicated.
Henning Bohn, an economist at the University of California, Santa Barbara, examined this issue in a recent research paper, using a mathematical version of the three generations on the farm. He concluded that we should not fully fund pensions. He pointed out that raising taxes to support pension funds punishes young working people, who are typically in debt with mortgages and credit cards. These workers usually pay higher interest rates on their debts than the return that the state government can earn on pension fund investments.
So what is the alternative?
One idea that has gained momentum is to replace traditional pension funds with plans akin to 401(k)'s. In 401(k)-style plans, no one would be guaranteed a particular income upon retirement. The government would merely contribute to retirement accounts, and state workers would choose how that money was invested -- and live with the consequences.
On the old-time farm, some people might choose to invest their retirement money in sheep, others in the vegetable garden, and still others in the cornfield. Their future welfare would depend on how those investments panned out.
But traditional farming families would probably laugh at this, too. What if the sheep died? What would happen to elderly family members who had invested so much in them?
THE trouble with the debate over what to do about our strained public pension systems is that so much of it is veiled in abstract, financial terms. The best solution might be the old-fashioned one: sharing, with some adjustments in our modern defined-benefits system. Yes, making the transition would not be easy. We would have to respect promises that have been made to today's retirees.
But, basically, we can keep traditional pensions by changing how we compute them. We should use a formula so that guaranteed future income in retirement bears a fixed relationship to a state's future ability to pay -- as measured, for example, by that state's economic output.
It is that simple: Just scrap the current indexing of pensions to the Consumer Price Index and replace it with a link to the state's gross domestic product.
We can't accurately fund traditional pension plans until we have G.D.P.-linked bonds, or ''trills,'' which I described in a recent column. But it is time to start the transition, so that pensions share risks across generations.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); FAMILY (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); PENSION FUNDS (87%); GRANDPARENTS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); SHEEP FARMING (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (69%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); LAMB & SHEEP MARKETS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



448 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Tipping the Hat to Dad

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
I'M the fourth generation of my family to run our 90-year-old company, which makes official caps and apparel for major sports leagues.
After high school, I began working for the company, first in manufacturing, where I learned the 22 steps it takes to produce a cap. Later, I worked in every department from research to distribution to sales, until I became president in 1993.
I was following in the footsteps of my father and grandfather who inherited the business, which was started in 1920 by my great-grandfather, Ehrhardt Koch, an immigrant from Germany. After learning to make men's hats, he decided to borrow $5,000 from his aunt to start a business producing men's fitted caps, known as Gatsby or Ivy League caps, made to match men's suits. 
The company has always been the main focus of our family. Even in the 1940s, my grandmother, Marion, would dye white wool at home, in a hand-cranked washing machine, to make caps in colors like Kelly green and scarlet.
My father, David, worked for the company for two decades, and became chief executive in 1972. From the time I was little, I remember talking about the company, whether at dinner or on vacation. That helped form the bond with my father. My mother, Valerie, was also involved in the business. She was raising four children and at the same time working in cap design and embroidery.
I graduated from high school in 1978, and was going to college at night and working at the manufacturing facility during the day. In the 1980s, a big new market opened for our company when sports fans wanted to buy the official caps worn by their favorite teams, and not just replicas. It was a turning point for our business, which had been selling our 59Fifty, or Brooklyn-style cap, to Major League Baseball players to wear as part of their uniforms.
In 1990, I was promoted to vice president for sales, shortly before New Era became one of the two official suppliers of caps worn on the playing field. We worked with Major League Baseball to add the M.L.B. logo on the back of every cap -- along with the New Era logo.
Then, we were catapulted into the fashion world after Spike Lee called in 1996 and asked for a red Yankees cap instead of the traditional navy blue. After he wore it to that year's World Series, everyone wanted one, including hip-hop and rock stars. Fred Durst of the band Limp Bizkit wore his so often that in 2002 we collaborated to produce a series of caps for retail sales.
When my father died that same year, I took over as C.E.O. I began expanding both nationally and globally, in Europe and in Canada. About 25 percent of our business now is in international sales.
This year was our 90th anniversary, so we invited 90 influential fans to create one-of-a-kind caps to be auctioned for charity. The idea stemmed from our ''Fly Your Own Flag'' ad campaign, which promotes New Era caps as a means of self-expression.
This year, we will make more than 40 million caps, with some $500 million in revenue. We still make caps in this country, but during the recent recession, we lost a lot of small accounts so we had to close some of our factories in the South. We still employ 600 people in the Buffalo area and some 1,500 employees around the world.
I was given a great foundation to build the company, and, with four children, I hope to see it run by a fifth generation.
I was lucky to have my father as a mentor. I still think about him every day; he's the one guy I have to answer to.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CHRISTOPHER H. KOCH: Chief executive, New Era Cap Company, Buffalo
AGE: 50 FAVORITE SPORTS FIGURE: Ty Wigginton, Colorado Rockies
 LOVES TO: Golf, snowboard and collect wines (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW ERA CAP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CHILDREN (77%); SPORTS FANS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); RETAIL SALES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); POP & ROCK (60%); RAP MUSIC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO ROCKIES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (64%); EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



449 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2383 words

HEADLINE: A Crisis That Markets Can't Grasp

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
THE risks are clear enough in hindsight.
The Tokyo Electric Power Company built its Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, nearly 40 years ago, to withstand a powerful earthquake -- but not one as big as the 9.0-magnitude quake that struck on March 11. Or the tsunami that followed. Now, the terrible ''ifs'' accumulate, as Japanese engineers work to bring the station's reactors under control. The ultimate price, in human life, may not be known for years.
The details of this catastrophe were unforeseeable, leading some to conclude this was a black swan event -- something so wildly unexpected, so enormous in its impact, that it seems to defy our understanding and expose the fragility of our knowledge of the world. How could anyone have predicted this?
And yet in 2007, Tokyo Electric Power, or Tepco, escaped a disaster at its huge Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear power station, on the opposite side of Japan, when that plant was damaged by a 6.8-magnitude earthquake -- three times as large as what the plant was designed to withstand. Tepco basically lucked out last time. 
So perhaps a bigger question is whether the markets -- in which we have come to place so much trust -- can put a true price on outsize risks like this.
Many have compared the events unfolding in Japan with 9/11, Hurricane Katrina, the financial collapse of 2008 and 2009, the BPoil spill, and the uprisings in the Arab world -- in that all have shown the limits of the collective wisdom of the marketplace. For a moment, all the swans seemed black. And those swans seemed blacker still when viewed through the lens of today's hyperkinetic global markets.
''There are an amazing number of crosscurrents in the world economy right now, more than I've seen in 25 years,'' said Shawn Reynolds, a co-portfolio manager at Van Eck Associates in New York.
Like everyone else, corporate executives, economists and financial analysts in Tokyo, New York, London and beyond struggled last week to wrap their heads around the scale of this disaster. But, as they so often do, the analysts quickly fell to work assessing the implications for companies, markets and economies. At times, it was almost surreal: On Tuesday, Laszlo Birinyi, a prominent stock market analyst based in Westport, Conn., e-mailed around a succinct report titled ''Nuclear Meltdowns at a Glance.''
This is what happens on Wall Street. If you're not immersed in the culture, it might be hard to understand the cool calculus that is applied to world events, however dire those events might be. After the quake hit on March 11, the CNBC anchor Larry Kudlow told viewers, ''The human toll here looks to be much worse than the economic toll, and we can be grateful for that.'' He later apologized.
As the week wore on, and prices were gyrating on everything from a share of I.B.M. to a ton of copper, everyone was making back-of-the-envelope calculations. There is still no clear consensus about how far the economic shocks will reverberate. Many analysts are guessing -- and then second-guessing -- how the disaster will play out in northeast Japan. The first, tentative analysis seemed painfully obvious: the Japanese economy, already weak, perhaps already in a recession before calamity struck, will become even weaker.
On Friday, the Group of 7 industrialized nations took the rare step of intervening on the world's foreign exchange markets to stem a sudden rise in the value of the yen. The currency had soared all week against the dollar -- the exact opposite of what you might expect. But Japanese companies and investors were bringing their money home, to pay for huge rebuilding costs.
After its most harrowing week since the 1987 market crash, the Tokyo Stock Exchange found its footing on Friday. But it was a week like few others on the exchange: the Nikkei 225 stock index, Japan's equivalent of the Dow Jones industrial average, fell 6.2 percent on Monday, plunged 10.5 percent on Tuesday, rebounded 5.7 percent on Wednesday and sank 1.4 percent on Thursday. It closed up 2.7 percent on Friday, at 9,206.75.
The loss for the week totaled 1,048 points, or 10.2 percent.
IF you happen to visit a Wall Street trading floor, walk over to the nearest Bloomberg terminal, type ''WRST'' and hit the green key that says ''go.''
WRST -- that is short for ''worst,'' as in, ''worst-case scenario.'' The program enables Wall Street types to measure the level of risk in their investment portfolios under a variety of scary circumstances modeled on past crises, including the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the bankruptcy of WorldCom in 2002 and the devaluation of the Thailand's currency, the baht, in 1997.
Such ''what if'' scripts are the stuff of modern Wall Street. Everyone runs them. Entire schools of financial analysis are devoted to examining historical market patterns in the belief that those patterns can predict the future.
Such analysis, of course, depends on -- and perhaps even encourages -- our belief that tomorrow will be much like today. And all that despite the fine-print caveat on your 401(k) statement that reads, ''Past performance is no guarantee of future success.''
Nassim Taleb, the author and market theorist who popularized the phrase ''black swan'' in his 2007 best seller, argues that we have psychological biases that blind us to the enormous role played by rare events -- like a 9.0-magnitude earthquake. And yet we rely on history for guidance. On Wednesday, Mr. Birinyi's research firm sent out another report, this one titled ''S.& P. 500 Enters Modest Correction.'' His firm predicted a slight decline in the American stock market.
''If the averages hold,'' the report said, ''the S.& P. 500 will bottom at 1,232 on 3/31/11.'' On Friday, the S.& P. 500 closed at 1,279.19, down 1.9 percent for the week.
Whatever else they may be, markets are immensely complex counting machines. They assign values to products, whether computer chips or potato chips, based on the canny appraisals and gut beliefs of people around the planet. From day to day, it is often hard, if not impossible, to know exactly why a certain price moved the way it did. Those daily movements are often just the white noise of global capitalism.
Then there are stretches of extreme volatility, periods when no one quite seems to agree about where anything is going. That may be part of what occurred last week: in the face of such a disaster, not even a short-term trend could congeal.
As yet, no one has reliable numbers about the scope of the destruction, said Al Tobin, who heads the property practice at Aon Risk Solutions, the risk management brokerage business of the Aon Corporation. The human toll, the economic toll -- ''no one knows the answer to that question,'' he said.
Given such uncertainty, the markets could remain even more volatile than usual, said Mohamed A. El-Erian, chief executive of Pimco, the world's largest bond manager. ''The market right now is trying to wrap its arms around the enormity,'' he said.
The verdict is not yet in.
Mr. El-Erian divided market strategists into two camps. The first, he says, views the events in Japan as ''more than just a massive human tragedy; it also has significant implications for the global economy.'' The second, he says, believes that the effects of this disaster, however heart-rending, will be transitory for most of us.
But he doesn't yet know which camp is right. ''I don't understand it fully yet,'' he said, ''but I am worried about it.''
Big economic questions remain unanswered. How would a severe slowdown in Japan, the world's third-largest economy, affect the rest of the globe? How will Japan, which is already deeply in debt, pay for the reconstruction? Some are already arguing that the enormous, high-cost task of rebuilding could, over time, snap Japan out of its long economic funk.
MARKET strategists pride themselves on being able to digest vast quantities of data quickly. They tend to be practical and versatile people, the kind who can put aside emotions and philosophical questions when business calls.
On Thursday, a sunny St. Patrick's Day in Manhattan, Jonathan Golub, the chief equity strategist for the giant Swiss bank UBS, said he was trying to master some of the intricacies of nuclear technology. ''Now I find myself talking about fuel rods and cooling pools,'' he said. It was, he said, not an uncommon type of experience: Before the financial crisis, even many people on Wall Street didn't quite know what a credit default swap was. Before long, everyone was throwing around terms like ''swaps'' and ''C.D.S.''
Mr. Golub said he felt for the people of Japan. He then went on to say, at a news briefing, that once the current market volatility subsided, this crisis should have only a marginal impact on America's economy and stock market, whose prospects were quite good. He predicted that the S.& P. 500 would reach 1,425 by the end of the year.
Still, because supply chains have gone global like so much else, the disaster has already had a very real impact in the United States. Last week, Subaru slowed operations of its auto plant in Indiana because it could not obtain key parts from Japan. General Motors said it would shut a truck plant in Louisiana because of a shortage of parts. The semiconductor industry has also slowed because Japan is a major supplier of silicon wafers and other components.
Despite its position as the world's No. 3 economy, Japan actually accounts for a relatively small -- and shrinking -- amount of the world's collective economic output. It contributes about 9 percent of global gross domestic product, down from about 18 percent in the 1990s. And because of the rapid acceleration of the so-called BRIC countries -- Brazil, Russia, India and China -- and of other emerging markets, Japan's contribution to growth of global G.D.P. is marginal.
Lakshman Achuthan, the managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, a private forecasting group with an excellent track record, says that Japan's economy, which he believes is already in recession, won't appreciably affect the direction of the economy in the United States. The disaster, however, ''ensures that Japan is in a recession,'' he said.
All of this, of course, assumes that the nuclear disaster, already the biggest since Chernobyl, doesn't get too much worse.
THE financial markets have always had a difficult relationship with nuclear power, largely because the costs -- and potential risks -- associated with nuclear plants are so huge. Day to day, nuclear power is cheap. But it is unclear how to accurately assess the cost of disposing of nuclear waste over the long run -- or, perhaps, the cost of disasters like the one in Japan.
Robert N. Stavins, a professor at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard and director of the university's environmental economics program, has studied this issue for years. In an article in the centennial edition of the American Economic Review in February, Professor Stavins said that economists had not yet solved the ''tragedy of the commons,'' the quandaries that arise when many people, acting in their own self-interest, ultimately pose a threat to the common good. For instance, how should we allocate environmental costs to power producers? How should the environmental costs of various fuels -- fossil or nuclear -- be calculated?
So far, the markets seem to have failed to provide an answer to all of those questions. A National Research Council study last year tallied up environmental costs for various fossil fuels but did not even try to do so for nuclear power because the ''power-plant risk modeling and spent-fuel transportation modeling'' required was beyond the scope of the council's study.
In the United States and elsewhere, governments have capped the liability of nuclear power producers. As a result, Professor Stavins said, ''You can argue that the markets have never really had a chance to price nuclear power.''
In the face of black swans -- also known as fat-tail events, for the way their occurrences are distributed along a probability curve -- market pricing may be impossible.
Martin Weitzman, another Harvard economist, wonders, for example, how Wall Street or anyone else could place an accurate price on the risk that an asteroid would crash into a major population center. In a controversial mathematical proof called, perhaps appropriately, the Dismal Theorem, he found that ''it's very hard to make reliable inferences about rare events on the tails of probability distributions.''
Is the nuclear disaster under way in Japan such a rare event, one that economists cannot accurately price? It is too early to say, Professor Weitzman said. ''It might be.''
IT has been more than 30 years since Three Mile Island, and 25 since Chernobyl.
In the ensuing years, one nuclear plant was completed in the United States and shut down before ever going into commercial operation. That was the Shoreham plant, on Long Island, which cost roughly $6 billion. Its fate was decided in 1989, when state officials concluded that Long Island could never be evacuated in case of a disaster.
The Fukushima accident has already caused a temporary slowdown in the nuclear industry. Officials in India and China said last week that they would re-evaluate their plans for building plants. Germany announced that it would temporarily shut seven nuclear plants that went online before 1980. The European Union made plans to test all the other nuclear power plants within its member countries.
In the United States, President Obama, who has promoted building new nuclear power plants, asked the Nuclear Regulatory Commission last week to review the safety of all United States plants.
However imperfectly, the market will pass judgment.
Mr. El-Erian of Pimco says the outlook is unusually uncertain. Investors, like everyone else, should understand that the world is a risky place.
''You need to use a whole range of approaches to understand the market in a situation like this,'' he says, ''and you need to be humble.''
And, perhaps, accept a sober reality: the next black swan is out there somewhere.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 19, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the name of the American Economic Review as the American Economic View.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An explosion Monday at the Fukushima plant, just one headline from a week that overwhelmed investors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NHK, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(BU1)
The ultimate costs of coal plants like the one in Thompsons, Tex., are easier to tally than those of nuclear plants, especially because of problems like waste disposal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Subaru slowed production in Lafayette, Ind., because it can't get some parts from Japan. G.M. is temporarily closing one plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL CONROY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Laszlo Birinyi, a stock market analyst, issued a report last week with the title ''Nuclear Meltdowns at a Glance.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
''I don't understand it fully yet,'' Mohamed El-Erian of Pimco said of Japan's crisis, ''but I am worried about it.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL MUNOZ/REUTERS)
Jonathan Golub of UBS says investment professionals are used to becoming instant experts when news breaks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ING, VIA PR NEWSFOTO)
 Prof. Robert Stavins of Harvard says markets may never have had a chance to factor in all the risks of nuclear power. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARVARD)(BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); TSUNAMIS (77%); ENGINEERING (73%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (68%); HURRICANES (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (94%)

TICKER: 9501 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (94%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



450 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Gov. Cuomo's All-Cuts Budget

 BODY:
Gov. Andrew Cuomo has rightly argued that painful spending cuts will be needed to close New York's projected $10 billion deficit. The hard truth is that it is impossible to cut spending deeply without cutting the state's huge outlays for education and health care. That means that New York's most vulnerable citizens -- schoolchildren, the elderly, the poor, the sick -- will feel a disproportionate amount of the pain.
Governor Cuomo has vowed to make the tough decisions and not to be swayed by special-interest pleadings. But he is refusing to impose any new taxes or even continue a current surcharge on New York's wealthiest and least vulnerable citizens. 
That makes no fiscal sense. So we have to assume that for Mr. Cuomo, some special interests are more special than others. Just extending the surcharge on New York's highest earners through 2012 would add an estimated $1.2 billion in revenue to the upcoming budget and $4 billion the following fiscal year.
Without that surcharge and other targeted tax increases, Mr. Cuomo's proposed cuts in education and other vital services will inevitably be deeper and more painful than necessary, harming both individuals and the foundation for the state's future economic growth.
The governor has proposed his no-new-taxes budget and is now negotiating with state lawmakers. The Legislature is required to approve a final budget by April 1. That means there is only slightly more than a week to decide these critical issues.
The Republican-led State Senate, predictably, supports Mr. Cuomo's tax stance. The Democratic-led Assembly has proposed a partial extension of the high-earner surcharge that would ease some of the cuts in Mr. Cuomo's budget, but would still leave a swath of vulnerable New Yorkers exposed to avoidable hardship.
The high-earner surcharge, which is set to expire at the end of this calendar year, currently applies to individuals with taxable income above $200,000 or married couples above $300,000 -- the top 2.8 percent of New York taxpayers. (Note that ''taxable income'' is total income minus exemptions, deductions and other tax breaks, so the gross pay of New Yorkers affected by the surcharge is much higher than the stated threshold.)
If it were extended, the burden would be tolerable. A couple with $350,000 in taxable income would simply continue to pay an extra $3,500; a couple with taxable income of $1.5 million would continue to pay $31,800 more. Those payments would be more than offset by the federal tax breaks those same taxpayers got with the recent renewal of the Bush-era tax cuts.
The surcharge revenue could be used to reduce many of the proposed cuts, or to avert the worst of them. For instance, Mr. Cuomo wants to withhold a $1.2 billion payment due to poor school districts under a 2006 court order. If the Legislature agrees, it will be the second year in a row that the ordered payment is not made. And it will further widen an already unconscionably wide gap between rich and poor school districts.
Extending the surcharge would allow the payment to be made. Even then, K-12 education would still face a crushing 7.3 percent cut from last year's spending. If it is combined with Mr. Cuomo's wrongheaded idea for a property tax cap, many schoolchildren will suffer educational setbacks from which they -- and the New York economy -- may never recover.
If it were not so serious, Mr. Cuomo's antitax crusade would be silly. His claim that New York has ''the worst business tax climate in the nation, period'' is based on an index from the Tax Foundation, a research group, which rates South Dakota and Alaska as the best states. New York is clearly not at a competitive disadvantage to those states. And neither is at a disadvantage to its neighbors: what Mr. Cuomo does not say is that New Jersey is ranked 48th on that list and Connecticut 47th.
More important, taxes generally rank behind education, infrastructure and other criteria when businesses decide where to locate and invest. If Mr. Cuomo were really concerned about the needs of business, he would seek to reduce proposed cuts in areas that businesses care about most.
The surcharge is not the only place to look for needed revenues. A penny-per-ounce tax on sugary sodas could raise an estimated $465 million in the first fiscal year. A review of the state's nearly $29 billion in annual corporate tax credits and other breaks could yield hundreds of millions of dollars in credits that have outlived their usefulness.
Calling for painful spending cuts, it turns out, is the easy part. Calling for relatively painless tax increases requires real political courage, which Mr. Cuomo and state lawmakers have yet to display.
This is part of a series of editorials about the fiscal crisis in New York State and in other states around the country. You can read all of these articles at: nytimes.com/fiscalcrisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (87%); INCOME TAX (85%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TAX INCREASES (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); CHILDREN (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); APPROVALS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); MARRIAGE (61%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



451 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: WHAT YOU GET FOR $700,000 IN...

 BODY:
WHAT YOU GET FOR $700,000
NEW YORK LIST PRICE: $699,000 BEDROOMS: 0 BATHROOMS: 1 INTERIOR: 550sq.ft.LOT SIZE: N/A RENOVATED: 2005 This studio apartment in Greenwich Village was designed by AvroKO -- a group of young Manhattan architects -- to make the most of a narrow loft with 13-foot ceilings. There are two Murphy beds and a sliding wall that can create a small guest bedroom; an interior staircase ascends to a platform that can be used as an office.The building has a rooftop deck.
CAPON BRIDGE, W.V. LIST PRICE: $695,000 BEDROOMS: 1 BATHROOMS: 1 INTERIOR: 900 sq. ft. LOT SIZE: 153 acres DATE BUILT: 1850 Ten years ago, this quaint antebellum log home with a stone hearth was moved from another location and thoroughly renovated. The current owners constructed a garage and a barn to match the cabin's style.There are several ponds and a stocked fly-fishing stream included in the acreage. 
BOISE, IDAHO LIST PRICE: $695,000 BEDROOMS: 4 BATHROOMS: 51--2 INTERIOR: 5,930 sq. ft. LOT SIZE: 0.38 acres DATE BUILT: 2006 This contemporary stone-and-stucco home, never occupied, was built on spec during the housing boom and initially listed at $1.4 million. It sits in a master- planned community with its own elementary school in the foothills of northwest Boise. A second-floor balcony overlooks a 28-by-19 great room. Large windows offer uninterrupted views of open space
AUSTIN, TEX. LIST PRICE: $699,000 BEDROOMS: 3 BATHROOMS: 3 INTERIOR: 2,350 sq. ft. LOT SIZE: 1.5 acres DATE BUILT: 1969 This ranch house sits on a rise that slopes gently toward Lake Travis. The property has large oak trees, and the current owners, who are moving to a larger house, spent roughly $80,000 to build a 53-foot infinity pool and separate whirlpool tub. New carpeting has been installed in recent months, but the bathrooms could use updating.
ST. PAUL LIST PRICE: $679,000 BEDROOMS: 8 BATHROOMS: 6 INTERIOR: 6,367 sq. ft. LOT SIZE: 0.3 acres DATE BUILT: 1898 There is a churchlike quality to the interiors of this house, which has stained-glass windows, handcrafted woodwork and green-brick fireplaces. A large, covered front porch looks out on a residential avenue. The home has been in the possession of the same family since the 1950s; the painted-canvas ceilings, bathrooms and kitchen need renovating.
NEW HARTFORD, CONN. LIST PRICE: $699,900 BEDROOMS: 5 BATHROOMS: 31--2 INTERIOR: 3,800 sq. ft. LOT SIZE: 4.04 acres DATE BUILT: 2002 This colonial reproduction was constructed less than a decade ago by a builder as his own home. The family room has beamed cathedral ceilings, and there are four stone fireplaces. The master bathroom has double vanities and a whirlpool. It also includes an apartment above the garage.
CHARLOTTE, N.C. LIST PRICE: $685,000 BEDROOMS: 4 BATHROOMS: 21--2 INTERIOR: 2,750 sq. ft. LOT SIZE: 0.63 acres DATE BUILT: 1934 This gracious brick home in Eastover, one of the historic neighborhoods in Charlotte, has three fireplaces, crown molding on both floors and a roof and an electrical system that are less than a decade old. The family room opens to a spacious back deck; the house is only a short drive from a park that has youth soccer, craft fairs and several tennis courts.
COLUMBIA, S.C. LIST PRICE: $699,000 BEDROOMS: 4 BATHROOMS: 41--2 INTERIOR: 4,800 sq. ft. LOT SIZE: 0.41 acres DATE BUILT: 1993 This stucco home, in a gated community of mostly brick houses, was built in the early 1990s. There are large windows and 11-foot ceilings on the first floor. The two- car garage was converted into a playroom.The current owner, who is downsizing, initially offered the house at $889,000, and the property has been on the market for two years.
SEATTLE LIST PRICE: $699,000 BEDROOMS: 3 BATHROOMS: 31--2 INTERIOR: 3,260 sq. ft. LOT SIZE: 0.13 acres DATE BUILT: 2006 This L-shaped modernist home, purchased for $1.1 million at the height of the real estate market, is being offered in a short sale -- for less than what is owed on the mortgage. Built in an otherwise modest residential neighborhood, the home has a radiant heating system and is filled with natural light; it is only a short walk to groceries, restaurants and coffee shops.
MEMPHIS LIST PRICE: $699,900 BEDROOMS: 4 BATHROOMS: 51--2 INTERIOR: 6,400 sq. ft. LOT SIZE: 0.58 acres DATE BUILT: 1994 This home sits on the edge of a golf course that is the site of the P.G.A.'s FedEx St. Jude Classic each year. The ''tournament balcony'' off the back of the second story looks out over a private pool and a fairway.The home is being offered for almost 40 percent less than its purchase price in 2006.
SPRINGFIELD, ILL. LIST PRICE: $695,000 BEDROOMS: 4 BATHROOMS: 4 INTERIOR: 2,965 sq. ft. LOT SIZE: 0.51 acres DATE BUILT: c.1955 Located on the edge of a 4,200-acre reservoir, this house has redwood exteriors and is only a short drive to I-55, offering access to Chicago to the north and St. Louis to the south. A 1990s-era addition to the home includes a high-end kitchen and a terraced patio. The property is currently being used as a summer home.
FLAGSTAFF, ARIZ. LIST PRICE: $679,900 BEDROOMS: 3 BATHROOMS: 31--2 INTERIOR: 2,743 sq. ft. LOT SIZE: 0.29 acres DATE BUILT: 2005 This home is set among pine trees in a private golf community that is not yet fully occupied -- sales were slowed by the economic downturn -- and is an hour's drive from Grand Canyon National Park. The back patio includes a built-in barbecue, and the living room has a stone fireplace.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VHT/ THE CORCORAN GROUP
BENJ I MELLISH
DAVID DOUGLAS
CAL MITCHENER
VISTA ESTATE IMAGING
WILL BEST
FLAG360.COM
MYRA SHEDDAN
ANDY WALKER
MARY NEW
JAMES BRUCE
UNITED COUNTRY HOMEPLACE PROPERTIES) (MM52
MM53) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY BRYAN CHRISTIE. (MM52
 MM53) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); SPORT FISHING (52%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOISE, ID, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); IDAHO, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



452 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: ARMs Redux

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
IN the years since the financial crisis, adjustable-rate mortgages, or ARMs, with their low initial interest rates that changed over time, have been considered riskier than fixed-rate loans and shunned by most buyers. But these days more people are being persuaded to give the loans a try.
This time around, lenders are rolling out more conservative ARM products -- without the gimmicky extra-low ''teaser'' rates that adjust every six months, or the ''pick-a-pay'' and ''option'' features that allow borrowers to pay less than the monthly interest, only to be hit with a huge bill down the road. 
Those ARMs were hallmarks of the subprime mortgage boom that fueled the soaring rate of mortgage defaults and home foreclosures nationwide.
''An adjustable now is basically a prime product,'' said Michael Moskowitz, the president of Equity Now, a lender in New York. ''There's definitely a comeback in their popularity.''
Bank of America, for example, had nearly twice as many ARM transactions last month as it did a year ago, according to Terry H. Francisco, a spokesman, and ARMs now account for 10 percent of all its home loans.
Mortgage brokers and lenders say the loans most in demand are the ''5/1'' and ''7/1,'' in which the initial interest rate is fixed for the first five or seven years -- after which many homeowners typically think about selling or refinancing anyway -- then adjusted annually at a capped rate toward a maximum level.
In contrast to fixed-rate loans, whose interest rates never change, ARMs start out at one rate and then adjust typically once a year at a capped rate, often two percentage points, based on changes in the interest-rate indexes to which they are tied. The adjusted rates can go up or down, and the total increase over the life of the loan is capped.
According to Stephen Habetz, the vice president of DRB Mortgage, the lending division of Darien Rowayton Bank in Darien, Conn., the maximum caps are around 6 percent above the initial rate. Bankrate.com said the initial rate for a 5/1 ARM in the New York area averaged 4.04 percent as of Wednesday, compared with 3.74 percent nationally. For 7/1 ARMs, the average was 4.74 percent, versus 4.10 percent.
Starting rates are usually one to one and a half percentage points below those of 30-year fixed-rate loans.
But one catch is that getting an ARM may now be harder.
Last summer Fannie Mae, the government buyer of home loans, said lenders must qualify borrowers on either the initial rate plus two percentage points, or on the full index rate to which the initial rate is tied, whichever is greater.
Back in 1994, ARMs were used for around 70 percent of all home purchases, according to a study by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York released in December. By early 2009, after the onset of the financial crisis, the share had fallen to 2.3 percent, the study showed, but as of April 2010, it had climbed to about 4 percent.
Freddie Mac, another government-buyer of loans, said in January that it expected the share of ARMs for home purchases to rise to 9 percent this year.
Among those borrowers choosing adjustable-rate mortgages are buyers of property costing more than the $729,750 limit at which Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will buy back loans from lenders, said Mary Boudreau, the owner of Penfield Financial, a mortgage broker in Fairfield, Conn. (Without the government buyback, fewer lenders are willing to make these ''jumbo'' loans, which carry interest rates one or two points above those of conventional loans. The Fannie and Freddie limit is set to drop to $625,500 in October.)
With an ARM, the savings can be significant. Sean Bowler, a loan officer at DRB Mortgage, said someone borrowing $500,000 with a 5/1 ARM at 3.5 percent would save $42,507 in the first five years, before it adjusts, compared with a 30-year fixed-rate loan of 5.25 percent. A 7/1 ARM at 4.125 would save $38,330 over the first seven years.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); CONSERVATISM (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (60%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



453 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 4757 words

HEADLINE: The Supersizer of Brooklyn

BYLINE: By ANDREW RICE

 BODY:
Let's begin with the mystery of the hidden bathroom.
It's the summer of 2008. A young couple decides to buy an 800-square-foot apartment in a new condo building on the gentrifying outer edge of a fashionable Brooklyn neighborhood. The buyers go to close on the place, and as they're signing away half a million dollars, the building's developer, keeping a wary eye on the hovering lawyers, leans over and whispers something. There's a second bathroom in the apartment, he says, one that does not appear on the floor plan -- its doorway is concealed behind an inconspicuous layer of drywall. At first, the buyers think the developer is kidding. This is before the crash, near the peak of the market, and no one's giving away a square inch. But the developer says no, he's dead serious, just look. So a few days after they buy the place, the couple takes a sledgehammer to their wall.
This building was the handiwork of the architect Robert Scarano. 
I first heard this particular Scarano story -- one of many in a genre -- from a friend, an architect, over beers at our neighborhood bar in Brooklyn. She told it the way a stockbroker might relate the misdeeds of Bernie Madoff, her professional disapproval commingled with a distinct sense of wonderment at the things the guy got away with, at least for a while. Through the mid-2000s, a period roughly coinciding with the real estate bubble, Scarano was one of the city's most productive architects, and certainly its most controversial, an omnipresent force in the outer-borough building boom that transformed row-house streets and industrial districts into colonies of stucco and sake bars. Working on hundreds of projects, many of them small-scale buildings that could be constructed quickly, without the rigmarole of public hearings, he remolded entire neighborhoods in his steely, angular, brash -- some would say garish -- style.
It wasn't aesthetics, though, that made Scarano the defining draftsman of that brief and ultimately delusional moment. It was the way he created room. In a city of cramped living, where space is guarded as jealously as Bedouin water, Scarano's buildings were designed to stimulate a primal pleasure center. They were loftlike, with soaring ceilings that drove their heights above the roofline and their prices to levels unheard of in formerly marginal neighborhoods. Enemies of overdevelopment protested that his towering designs were ugly and out of context, while other architects groused that he was circumventing the constraints of the zoning code. Scarano countered that his competitors just weren't creative enough, that he thought in cubic feet, not square, delivering more light, more air and more space to an eager buying public. And, not incidentally, more profit to his clients.
A hidden room, though, added another dimension -- one that couldn't be explained by craft or capitalism. Why wall off such precious space? My architect friend contacted the condo's owner, a relative, and he agreed to show me his apartment, on the condition that I not reveal its location or his name. (He's still uncertain of all the legalities.) On a weekend afternoon, I found the owner watching basketball in his living room, beneath a 15-foot ceiling, with the afternoon sun streaming in through a window almost as tall. Up a steep set of metal stairs, above an open kitchen, was a mezzanine loft -- Scarano's signature design element -- where the man kept an office. In the loft's far corner, next to a washer-dryer, was the beige-tiled second bathroom. A contractor had finished the door, but otherwise, it was exactly as the couple had found it behind the drywall. ''There were a couple of dust bunnies,'' he said, ''but other than that it was a brand new shower, brand new sink, the light bulbs worked, the toilet flushed.''
The owner wasn't sure what had happened. He knew about Scarano's very public fall, amid myriad claims of malpractice, lawsuits and tabloid headlines that branded him a ''Building Blockhead'' and ''Architect of Ruin?'' But he had no complaints; he was happy with his surprise gift. ''It was the most amazing thing,'' he said. ''It was like an oasis of a bathroom.''
Still, the question remained, what was it doing behind a wall?
This, to me, is what it's about,'' Robert Scarano said. ''The feeling of space when you're in the room.'' On an unseasonably lovely February day, the architect, dressed in a charcoal-colored pinstriped suit, strode through an apartment in Vere 26, a high-rise building in Long Island City. A pair of sunglasses was perched on his wavy mane of hair, which matched the shade of the stainless-steel kitchen. Scarano waved his hand across the skyline of Manhattan, which embraced the room through floor-to-ceiling glass.
Along the vista, old oaks like the Empire State Building and the U.N. headquarters stood amid the fresh shoots of the last decade. It was, in fact, a period of architectural flowering. ''A lot of people over the years said that New York doesn't have a lot of good architecture,'' Scarano said. Critics used to wonder aloud about the city's lost spirit of innovation and bemoan decades of monolithic blandness -- but then, around 2000, tastes changed. Or, to be more precise, developers figured out that their buildings would be more popular and profitable if they were presented as the work of great artists: ''starchitects,'' the marketers called them. And so, eminent names like Norman Foster, Renzo Piano and Frank Gehry were invited to leave their mark on the skyline.
Scarano had offered to meet me at Vere 26, after a long period of litigation-/related silence, in order to make a categorical point: that in his own scaled-down, pragmatic, outer-borough way, he, too, deserved to be counted as an artist. For this building, set on an elongated corner lot, he was forced to grapple with zoning rules that appeared to mandate a ponderous, blocky structure. He worked around the restrictions by surrounding the building with a decorative lattice -- ''a sprightly frame of white painted steel,'' as it was described in an approving write-up in the latest edition of the A.I.A. Guide to New York City, a canonical volume. The guide's authors had given much fainter praise to several other Scarano buildings, but the architect seized on his very mention as a vindication. The book appeared as his business was reeling and the city government, claiming misconduct, was fighting to ban him from practicing his profession.
''People ask me why I didn't just fold up my tent and move,'' Scarano said. ''We stood there under the microscope, with 10,000 watts of light on us . . . because it's easy to stand there when you believe in what you do.''
Scarano is stubborn and pugnacious by nature, a defiant son of Brooklyn. He lives in Gravesend, in a colonial that his grandfather used to own, to which he recently added an enormous A-framed front window. In a highly stratified profession, divided between a name-brand elite of ''design architects'' and a vastly larger population of ''developers' architects,'' who work with more mundane budgets and expectations, Scarano represents an odd amalgam. He's a speculator's auteur. ''We were trying to really raise the bar,'' he said, ''for those people who were typically not as concerned about doing projects of an aesthetic note.'' Whatever his buildings lack, it isn't ambition -- they're always more than they have to be, which is precisely the trouble.
Scarano's father was a mechanical engineer, who sent his son to City College with the intent of bringing him into the trade. Although the younger Scarano diverged from that plan, he has always prided himself on his mastery of gritty practicalities: permits, zoning, the trade in air rights, which allow building density to be transferred from one property to another. Setting up his practice in Brooklyn, Scarano developed a reputation as someone who brought an element of flair to even modest projects. He was well positioned when, in the early 2000s, affluent professionals began their mass migration across the East River. ''He has an extreme talent when it comes to designing a unique piece of property,'' says Elan Padeh, founder of a consulting firm called the Developers Group, which spearheaded the gentrification in neighborhoods like Williamsburg. ''Zoning is a complicated process, and he was definitely a great teacher.''
Padeh and others like him acted as intermediaries between property owners -- oftentimes, in Williamsburg and elsewhere, members of Brooklyn's insular Orthodox Jewish communities -- and a worldly new buyer, who might not have money for Richard Meier but still wanted a modernist habitat. Scarano began producing designs to meet this market's demand. ''His architecture attracts the eye, and there is something to be said for how that radiates to the sale side,'' Padeh said. ''When developers saw that, they decided that they wanted to work with Robert.'' By 2004, Scarano was collaborating with the Developers Group's clients on dozens of projects. Over the next few years, he submitted plans for nearly 250 new buildings and many more renovations.
In the space of just a few years, Scarano's practice more than tripled in size, to 55 architects and design professionals. His business was headquartered on the top floor of a converted warehouse building, flush against the Manhattan Bridge. When the firm outgrew its space, he built an addition on the building's roof, a geometrical riot topped by triangular trusses that were lighted in many colors at night. It was a jaw-dropping sight from the bridge.
''There's an overriding theme in a lot of our work, which I would call this Mondrianic composition in terms of the materials,'' Scarano told me. The 5,000-square-foot addition also functioned as a prominent advertisement for his theories about living large. ''The volume of space and the way people feel in spaces that are more grandiose is quite different, and it affects the psyche,'' Scarano said. ''The idea that the zoning could be used to help create space, interesting spaces, I think was something that wasn't really being explored.''
The purpose of zoning is to provide for restrained development. But in Scarano's view, the city's code was a Talmudic document, open to endless avenues of interpretation. Through a variety of arcane strategies, he could literally pull additional real estate out of the air. In the high-ceilinged warehouses of SoHo and TriBeCa, for instance, an earlier generation of gentrifiers had increased their living space by constructing mezzanines, creating the loft look that so many buyers were now after. ''The population of factory buildings was unfortunately being used up,'' Scarano said. ''So what did we do? We created the factory aesthetic in new construction.'' And he didn't just take the aesthetic -- he also adapted the zoning rules that applied to warehouse conversions. Under certain circumstances, the code classified loft mezzanines as storage space, not floor area, and Scarano assured developers their new building plans could slip through this loophole. Effectively, he said, he could fashion double-decker apartments, in buildings that were four stories for legal purposes and eight stories for marketing.
''That was the line: Go to Bob, he'll get you a bigger building than anyone else,'' says the Brooklyn architect John Hatheway, who helped lead a successful campaign for new height restrictions in his neighborhood, inspired by various projects, including Scarano's. Developers began demanding more from their architects, or else they would just seek an audience with Scarano, who always seemed to find ways to magically enlarge a competitor's plan. ''We would see people lining up, sitting down, waiting in the waiting room to see him,'' said Samy Brahimy, a developer who had been visiting Scarano's office for years. ''It was a little baffling.''
Few clients delved into the secrets of Scarano's leger/demain. ''I assumed it was some combination of expertise, knowledge of the code and relationships'' at the Department of Buildings, said a developer who, like many other former Scarano clients, asked not to be named because he no longer wants his buildings associated with the architect. ''If people are delivering good things, you don't want to ask questions.''
Scarano, like many in his voluble profession, has strong opinions about other architects. He appreciates Jean Nouvel for his visionary use of glass; he's not a fan of Meier, whose work, he once said, is characterized by ''a tremendous slavery to Modernism.'' One building that he's particularly fond of is the Porter House, a Meatpacking District renovation, where SHoP Architects added a zinc-paneled four-story addition to an existing Renaissance Revival warehouse. So Scarano said he was excited when, one day in 2005, ''a job walks into my office that's almost a twin of that building.''
A developer named Isaac Fischman had acquired a redbrick warehouse on Carroll Street in Brooklyn, a block from the Gowanus Canal. Over the decades, the industrial site was connected to a jute mill, a light-bulb manufacturer and a lunch-cart business, but the brownstone blocks just to the north and west were now some of the most desirable in the city. ''It's historical, it's a three-story building, it has a lot of air rights and potential, and an unusual addition could be put on it,'' Scarano said. ''Well, again, what was a really cool addition to us was not a really cool addition to a lot of other people.''
In 2005, a framework of steel began to go up on top of the warehouse -- and up, and up, until the cubic structure was nearly as tall as the original building. Chris McVoy watched the progress with mounting annoyance from his town house down the block. He thought the warehouse addition was grossly out of proportion, and as an experienced architect himself, he was suspicious. ''I know the floor-area ratios in the neighborhood,'' he said. ''There was no way they could be putting that much area on that site. There was something wrong.''
McVoy wasn't the only one who was incredulous. ''It was this monstrous cage on top of a beautiful old manufacturing building,'' Katia Kelly, a community blogger, said. ''And on top of it, the name Scarano.'' The architect's popularity with developers had met with an equal and opposite reaction from Kelly's crowd, which considered him a crass enabler of greed. Complaints about the Carroll Street project soon flooded the buildings department, which briefly halted it. In late 2006, though, construction restarted, and McVoy decided to examine Scarano's plans himself.
McVoy quickly identified what he described as several ''pretty glaringly wrong'' floor-area calculations, in part related to mezzanines, and concluded that the building under construction was nearly 8,000 square feet too large. He took his analysis to a buildings-department official. Scarano had come up with a complex justification that involved placing parking on the basement level, but that didn't make sense to McVoy, either. He eventually discovered that Scarano's survey of the existing building made a key misstatement about its dimensions. (Sidebar, right.) ''It's very hard for me to believe that it was an accidental error,'' McVoy said. (Scarano says that the plans were accepted by the buildings department; a spokesman for the department said that happened only after major revisions.)
Scarano boasted that he knew every nook and cranny of the zoning code, and few thought to question his expertise. He had a genial relationship with the buildings department, and he usually submitted his designs under the city's self-certification program, an honor system instituted to save money during the Giuliani administration. This meant that, in the vast majority of cases, buildings were being constructed with the go-ahead from just one person: Robert Scarano. In neighborhoods all over the city, though, concerned citizens began to throw up obstacles.
A few, like McVoy, had the specialized knowledge necessary to scrutinize Scarano's fine print. In Manhattan, Kevin Shea, a lawyer specializing in building-code work, grew curious about a new building on the Bowery that he walked by every day -- it just looked too tall. When Shea checked, he discovered that the 16-story Bowery Tower development was being constructed under an allowance for college housing, even though no school was involved with the project. After protesters complained that the tower was clearly meant to be apartments, the project stalled, and it was taken over by new developers, who replaced Scarano, refaced the exterior with traditional brick and opened the chic Bowery Hotel. Scarano takes credit for the acclaimed result.
''Even though I was in the industry,'' Shea said, ''it had never occurred to me that you could put up a building in Manhattan without getting an approval of some kind. The further I looked into it, the more crazy it looked.''
Elsewhere, others were hit with similar realizations, and the opposition came together in a loose-knit network. There was another proposed 16-story tower in Williamsburg, nicknamed ''The Finger,'' because neighbors said that was what Scarano was giving them. There, the architect met zoning requirements by proposing a shared outdoor deck -- on the roof of a neighboring property. The owner, who sued, claimed the architect and developer had conspired to defraud him out of the rights to the space. (Scarano denied wrongdoing, and the case has been settled.) In the neighborhood around Greenwood Cemetery, a graphic designer named Aaron Brashear rallied opposition to a number of Scarano's buildings, including one that would have blocked a hilltop view of the Statue of Liberty. Critics began to question how Scarano was counting his mezzanines as storage, when the spaces were being marketed as bedrooms, sometimes with adjoining baths.
Scarano vigorously defended himself, saying he was merely ''pushing the envelope'' of the zoning code's established interpretation. The controversies over his designs made irresistible material for a multiplying chorus of boom-time news organs devoted to real estate. ''Blogs tend to have these heroes and villains,'' said Lockhart Steele, founder of the Web site Curbed, who gleefully cast Scarano in the villainous category. ''It was like this slowly dawning realization, that all these things we found distasteful were all the work of one man.'' Scarano was more than willing to mix it up with opponents. Some received furious ALL CAPS e-mails, others plaintive or ominous phone messages. On the blog Brownstoner, among others, Scarano often posted taunting comments: ''Happy to see that all my good friends and critics from the crazy house are still out there'' and ''Ah, the wild imagination of those who are not in the know. Its [sic] fantastic to read. Get a life!''
Scarano made such comments under his own name -- ''who wants to go through life being anonymous?'' he wrote -- but ultimately, his high profile was his undoing. All the complaints and negative press roused the buildings department, which began auditing his projects. Elan Padeh quietly warned his clients that his favored architect had become a liability, and some builders began re-examining their plans.
In 2008, Isaac Fischman removed Scarano from the Carroll Street warehouse project, after the buildings department ordered the developer to stop work. For the last three years, Scarano's skeletal addition has loomed over the area, symbolic and unfinished. ''They got greedy,'' McVoy says. ''If they had just renovated in that time and not tried to get around zoning, the irony is they would have been done before the crash.'' Fischman recently announced that all the steel will come back down, and he will convert the building to apartments while maintaining its existing dimensions. Fischman told me he lost ''a serious amount of money'' to Scarano-related delays. ''I was one of his victims,'' he said.
Scarano scoffs at the notion that any developer, Fischman included, was duped into accepting his designs. Architecture ''is not so dissimilar from the accounting profession,'' he said, dropping all Mondrianic pretense. ''When someone goes to their tax accountant . . . they don't tell the fellow to figure out how to not have the most deductions.'' Everyone was happy until the auditors arrived, and then came recriminations. Over the past few years, numerous developers have sued Scarano, claiming he prepared faulty plans, while he has countersued to recover hundreds of thousands in unpaid fees.
In early 2006, after a meticulous review, the city filed a series of civil charges against Scarano in an administrative court, among other things claiming that he ''made false or misleading statements'' in submissions for 25 self-certified projects. Most of the violations concerned mezzanines. The buildings department had just promulgated new guidelines, holding that if the mezzanines had more than five feet of headroom, they could not count as storage space. A few months after the case was filed, the city settled the charges in return for Scarano's giving up his right to self-certify. ''I believe strongly and until today that my interpretations and my decisions were founded on things that were permissible,'' Scarano says, contending that many of his audited buildings were eventually cleared by examiners.
Some wonder, if what he was doing was so blatantly illegal, why Scarano met with approval for so long. Robert LiMandri, the commissioner of the buildings department, said he had ''no information that indicates that there was any sort of corruption'' and that no employees were disciplined. Rather, he contended, the department was overwhelmed by a ''frenzy'' of building activity, and it relied on Scarano's representations, which were often voluminous and confusing. At the time, the department had no way to punish him for lying. In 2007, though, state legislators, inspired by complaints about scofflaw architects, passed a law that allowed tough sanctions. ''We really needed this stick to be able to say to people, look, there are no more cat-and-mouse games,'' LiMandri said. The department created a new Special Enforcement Unit, focusing on Scarano as an initial target.
The city brought a new prosecution, a complicated case involving adjoining properties and supposed double counting of zoning rights, but then, in late 2008, a seemingly unambiguous bit of trickery dropped into investigators' laps. Scarano was seeking a routine approval for a commercial building, which could not be occupied as long as an electrical pole was sitting in the middle of a new driveway. The architect submitted a curious photo of the building: shot from an off-center angle, it gave the appearance that the driveway was no longer obstructed. When the city sent an inspector to the site, he saw the pole hadn't actually been moved. An excited buildings official e-mailed a colleague: ''It is a smoking peashooter.''
At trial, Scarano testified that he tried to get his ''knucklehead'' client to deal with the obstructing pole, and his lawyer called the city's repeated investigations a ''vendetta.'' Last March, though, the judge found that Scarano had engaged in ''deliberate subterfuge'' and actions ''so deceptive that they call to mind out-and-out fraud.'' He was given the maximum punishment -- a total ban on filing any documents with the city. The sanction is currently stayed while Scarano fights it in a state appeals court, but if it's upheld, the architect says he could be put out of business.
Many architects who know Scarano were mystified. ''He's the guy that they're out to get, and when it comes down to charging him with something, they charge him with such a minor thing,'' said Donald Weston, head of the urban-design committee of the A.I.A.'s Brooklyn chapter. To some, Scarano looks like a scapegoat for the city's inconsistency and winking enforcement. But other architects view his violations as egregious. ''I think you can't legislate aesthetics,'' said Chris McVoy, but he added, ''there's a certain public trust in these regulations whether you agree with them or not.''
Scarano's firm has been devastated by the scandal and the housing bust. His fabulous office is now occupied by just 20 employees, he said, and even appreciative clients are reluctant to give him business, lest his name attract unwanted scrutiny. But he is hardly the only one who has suffered. Some residents of his lofts, who bought believing a broker's assurance that they were two-bedrooms, have since learned that they count as one-bedrooms for appraisal, while others complain of faulty construction. ''I am only the architect,'' Scarano replies, saying he never had any control over how developers built or marketed his designs.
Scarano maintains that his reputation will ultimately rest on how his buildings hold up in the eyes of the public and critics. He revels in his inclusion in the A.I.A. Guide: if the mentions weren't always positive, they did prove he mattered. Fran Leadon, the volume's co-author and a City College professor, told me he struggled with how to describe Scarano's unquestionable contributions to the cityscape. ''I felt like it was a challenge to talk of them as being symptomatic of the extreme end of the building boom,'' he said. ''Not caring about history on a certain site, not really caring about the context, but caring very much about maximizing square footage and very much about buildings as commodities.''
Visiting Scarano's Brooklyn projects today is like reliving the bubble's deflation in a series of freeze-frame photos. There are completed high-rises along Fourth Avenue and a creamy white building in Bedford-Stuyvesant, where giant windows gave me a glimpse of a Saturday afternoon open house. Other buildings appeared to be ready but empty, or moldering unfinished. On the plywood that fenced in one forlorn Fort Greene construction site, a graffiti artist had spray-painted a frowning face and the word ''Help.''
''A lot of people got destroyed,'' said Alan Messner, a developer who built three Scarano buildings. Standing on a Williamsburg street corner, admiring the wood-paneled exterior of a condominium building called the Artisan, Messner told me he barely managed to survive after a lengthy buildings-/department audit, which he credited Scarano for working through.
Messner's building looked great, but many other projects managed to pass the review process only after extensive alterations and downsizing. Developers claim that the buildings department imposed its new standards arbitrarily. In some buildings, they were allowed to cut their mezzanines' headroom to five feet by constructing flimsy wood platforms. (When my wife and I visited a Scarano building's open house in 2009, a broker was quick to mention how easily such a platform could be removed.) Elsewhere, inspectors apparently accepted a veneer of plausible deniability. A mezzanine could still be a storage space, it seems, if it didn't have a bathroom.
Hence, a builder might erect a mysterious wall.
Of course, in New York, space seldom goes to waste or waits long for rediscovery. Last year, Cody Brown and Kate Ray, recent New York University graduates and partners in a Web start-up, happened to find a rental in a Bushwick building by looking for the keyword ''sunny'' on Craigslist. It was maximalist Scarano: a three-story triplex with a mezzanine and several outdoor terraces. ''It's designed to make yuppies smile,'' Brown told me when I visited recently. Originally conceived by the developer as luxury condos, the building was briefly leased to an ex-con who ran it as a halfway house, but the neighborhood protested, and now Brown and Ray were dividing the triplex with three other roommates, exploiting every bit of space. They were young and thrilled with the rent, and they weren't sweating the details. ''It's like, beautiful things,'' Ray said. ''And then you start pulling the doorknob too hard, and it comes off.''
''There's a secret room,'' Brown told me, conspiratorially. Up on the mezzanine level, next to a pair of D.J.'s turntables, he knocked on a wall. It sounded hollow. I recounted the story of the hidden bathroom and left them to consider their options.
Down eight flights of stairs -- no elevator -- I walked past another building resident, a young guy in a hoodie, chatting up some women on the sidewalk. He was going to give a party, he said, and as they walked off, he shouted out how to find it: ''I live in the penthouse!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: All buildings are in Brooklyn: [1] 110 Fourth Avenue [2] 214 Richardson Street [3] 99 Gold Street [4] 406 Lorimer Street [5] 255 Fourth Avenue [6] 78 Ten Eyck Street. (MM68-MM69)
4 EAST THIRD STREET: Scarano's original plan was for a 16-story residential condominium tower. Under zoning regulations in the neighborhood at the time, residential developments were only allowed a floor-area ratio (FAR) of 3.44, while developments with a ''community use'' could have a FAR of 6.5. Scarano and the developer claimed the units were to be college housing, which would allow him to build using the more generous community standard -- at the time a widespread and notorious dodge. Complaints were fi led with the Department of Buildings. The original developer then sold the tower to a group that decided to convert it to the Bowery Hotel, which, as a commercial use, was permitted a more generous FAR. (MM71)
333 CARROLL STREET: Scarano tried to build a two-story addition to the roof of this old warehouse by transferring floor area from the building's lowest level, which he planned to convert to parking, to the top of the roof. But the zoning code distinguished between a basement (which is partly above ground, defined as habitable, and therefore counted toward the floor-area ratio) and a cellar (which is underground and uninhabitable). Opponents accused Scarano of trying to finesse the difference, and eventually the Department of Buildings declared the space a cellar. New height limits have been established in the neighborhood, and the partly built addition is coming down. (MM72)
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GABRIELLE PLUCKNETTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM73) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ZONING (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



454 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Green Bay Is Left a Town With a Title, but No Team

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
GREEN BAY, Wis. -- The N.F.L. lockout and the threat of a canceled 2011 football season have disquieted fans in many American cities, but the unease in Green Bay (population 102,000) is profound and multilayered. In the league's smallest market, the Green Bay Packers not only give the region a cherished identity and an annual economic boost of more than $280 million, they are also the N.F.L.'s only community-owned franchise, with more than 112,000 shareholders.
Absent the classic notion of an owner, the folks in Green Bay cannot get particularly angry at either side, especially since every neighborhood, workplace or family could have both season-ticket holders and shareholders.
And the players? They just delivered the city a championship. In Green Bay, a prolonged Super Bowl party was just getting started. 
Finally, the N.F.L. lockout adds one more labor debate to a state consumed by a bitter brawl over public-employee unions, pension and health insurance benefits and widening budget gaps -- a battle temporarily suspended March 11 when Gov. Scott Walker signed into law a bill limiting bargaining rights for most government workers. (On Friday, a Wisconsin judge issued a temporary restraining order that will prevent the law from taking effect, for now.)
''What a bad month,'' Ned Dorff, a Green Bay alderman on the City Council, said Wednesday. ''As one of my friends told me, 'I'll never forgive the N.F.L. and Scott Walker for killing my Super Bowl buzz.' ''
In this environment, scores of Packers fans did what they customarily do in good times and bad: They made a pilgrimage to Lambeau Field, home of their beloved Packers for the last 54 years. By the dozens they came to take stadium tours. Some, including a busload of conventioneers from Iowa, came to pose for pictures in front of the nearly 20-foot-high statue of Vince Lombardi, which faces the main thoroughfare, Lombardi Avenue. And Wayne Guetschow, a meat cutter from Shawano -- the Packers name comes from a meatpacking plant that sponsored the team in 1919 -- came to pay for his four 2011 season tickets.
Guetschow is one of the 99.7 percent who will renew their season tickets by the March 31 deadline, according to the team. The renewal rate has not changed in decades, not with a waiting list of 83,000.
''One of the first things that came up in my divorce was my season tickets,'' said Guetschow, who lives about an hour from Green Bay. ''I made sure I held on to them.''
Guetschow says he wears a Packers hat every day to work, where the N.F.L. lockout comes up in conversation several times during each shift.
''It makes everybody really sad; I hear a lot of grumbling,'' he said, wearing a hat and a sweatshirt celebrating the recent Super Bowl championship. ''I don't know what we will do with ourselves if there is no season or even no training camp. There will be more hunting, I guess. But people around here, it's not like we're all going to start golfing.
''We're a small, quiet place, but if there's one thing that unites us, it's the Packers. They make us feel bigger.''
Three floors up from where Guetschow paid for his tickets, inside the Packers administrative offices, Mark Murphy, the team's president and chief executive, said many planned events had been postponed because of the lockout.
The Packers, for example, have yet to accept an invitation to the White House, since team leaders did not think President Obama would want to welcome only Packers executives and coaches. They have not ordered their Super Bowl rings because they want to consult with the players, whom they are prohibited from contacting during the lockout. Spring and summer are traditionally the seasons when Packers players make dozens of appearances at schools and at fund-raising charity events, but not this year.
''I'm sure the players aren't happy about that, either,'' said Jason Wied, the team's vice president for administration and its general counsel. ''It's certainly not helping schools or charities, especially after a Super Bowl victory.''
Murphy, who had participated in the recent talks between league representatives and the players union, said the Packers were trying to keep their fans informed and connected during the lockout.
''They realize that nobody from the Packers is going to personally benefit,'' he said. ''Our purpose all along is to do what's right for the long-term health of the franchise. That's our mission: serving millions of Packers fans and more than 112,000 shareholders.''
Since 1923, when the Packers sold 1,000 shares of stock for $5 each, the team has been community-owned. The last stock sale was in 1997-98, when more than 120,000 shares were sold at $200 each during a 17-week period.
Shareholders live in the 50 states and several countries. A 44-member board of directors, which includes former players, local business leaders and fans, oversees the Packers. A share of stock comes with voting rights but cannot be resold except back to the team for a fraction of its original price. No dividends are paid and the share cannot appreciate in value. It does not come with season-ticket privileges and no one can own more than 200,000 shares, to ensure that no individual can assume control of the team.
Still, the annual shareholders meeting is so big it must be held at Lambeau Field, which seats about 73,000.
''My friends sometimes joke that my stock is worthless, but I know they don't mean it,'' said Joe Sullivan, a Packers shareholder who works at a Green Bay food processing plant. ''It's the feeling that in some small way you contributed. You helped pay for somebody's salary, for two footballs or a brick in the stadium. The Packers are why Green Bay is known around the world and we love that.''
According to Brad Toll, the president of the Greater Green Bay Convention and Visitors Bureau, the Packers have done more than put the city on the map.
''The lockout isn't just a football story to us,'' Toll said. ''The Packers are an economic engine. For home games, we might get 50,000 visitors from outside the county. They fill 4,300 hotel rooms at $200 a night and a lot of those hotels require a two-night stay. They eat at restaurants all weekend, they buy gas and souvenirs.''
The Packers' training camp, nearly a month long, is held on fields next to Lambeau Field. Toll said the training camp alone was worth $7.4 million to the city.
''If there is no 2011 N.F.L. season in Chicago, they'll miss the games,'' he said. ''If there's no season here, we'll miss the games and a huge part of our economy.''
The area convention and visitors bureau is opposite Lambeau Field, a rare office in a neighborhood reflective of Green Bay's working-class roots. Within sight of the stadium are manufacturing plants making ladders and flooring, a warehouse selling construction equipment and another selling soap and janitorial supplies. An auto parts store is next to a hardware store, which is next to a tire store.
Dave Hansen, a state senator who represents the district, knows the neighborhood well. A lifelong resident of Green Bay, he was an usher at Lambeau Field for 30 years.
A former teacher and city works truck driver -- and Teamsters Union steward -- he was most recently in the news as one of the 14 state senators who fled to Illinois to prevent a vote on a bill that would significantly weaken public-sector unions.
''The people of Green Bay just want the N.F.L. lockout resolved; they want a compromise,'' Hansen said Tuesday, seated at the Stadium View restaurant and bar in the shadow of Lambeau Field. ''They understand workers' rights, maybe now more than ever, but they love the Packers leadership, too, because we're all part of this community.
''The shame of it is that the state was on such a high after the Super Bowl. The mood has changed. There's a lot of bad feeling and fear out there.''
Some in Green Bay, known as Titletown, are nonetheless trying to find a silver lining.
''If the 2011 season isn't played, then we're still the defending champions,'' said Andrew Clanin, 24, of Hortonville, standing in the Lambeau Field entranceway. ''We get an extra year of bragging rights.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As fans and shareholders, some Green Bay residents are in a quandary during the N.F.L.'s labor battle.
 Dave Hansen, a lifelong resident of Green Bay, was an usher at Lambeau Field for 30 years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE ROEMER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); CITIES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (77%); BUDGETS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); FRANCHISING (58%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (58%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (96%) WISCONSIN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



455 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM READER COMMENTS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Rent? Buy? As They Say, It Depends

 BODY:
Last week the Appraisal column explored whether it was worth it to residents of Cobble Hill Towers in Brooklyn to buy their apartments. For one young family, it made sense. For another longtime resident, there were better deals to be found elsewhere. The City Room blog asked readers to weigh in on the issue: Is it better to rent or to buy?
Here are a few responses: 
If you can get your hands on a decent rent-stabilized apartment, then rent.
If not, and if you are in for the long haul, buying allows you to fix a huge portion of your expenses and makes more sense where costs are comparable. It also lets you keep a foot in the market, which is essential protection if prices increase drastically. Paul '52
Well, I was a renter in Manhattan for many, many years and now own. My very last apartment in the East Village was 750 square feet. The apartment I bought is 1,000 square feet, and my mortgage and maintenance combined equals my rent from 10 years ago! If you can, I would strongly recommend buying. Renting is a waste of your money. Andrea
I rent in Brooklyn, and I'd like to buy, in theory. I've had a decent rent for the past 15 years, and, at the same time, I've also been feverishly saving for a down payment. I used to say that my deadline for buying is when my rent (which goes up every year by somewhere between 3 and 5 percent) reaches the cost of monthly mortgage plus maintenance of a comparable co-op. It hasn't happened yet. The prices to buy keep going up and my rent is still significantly cheaper than a mortgage and maintenance, even at its most recent increase to $1,450 a month. GK from BK
The real estate in New York City is overpriced. I am not even thinking about buying an apartment here (even though I can easily afford one, assuming that I take a mortgage). For the same amount I can purchase a nice house in Costa Rica, the Philippines or Thailand (where I plan to retire anyway), and pay cash. Kostas
Rent.
Real estate equity will build very slowly if at all over the next decade. Therefore the down payment would be better invested in the stock market, which is the only place the government or Federal Reserve Board is focusing on economic recovery.
I might need to relocate for any number of reasons, and I do not want that flexibility to be hampered by an inability to sell or by a loss of investment from having to sell in a slow real estate market.
Rent is less expensive than a mortgage and maintenance; maintenance can increase at the whim of a condo or co-op board. Rent will remain market driven, with the ability to relocate somewhere if it goes up too much.
This is from an ex-owner who will never buy again. Norman
I bought a couple of years ago a three-bedroom apartment in Washington Heights for less than $100,000. Being a cash deal, I was able to negotiate down the price. I invested another $50,000 or so in gutting it completely, but now I own a beautiful apartment, without a mortgage and with low maintenance fees ($500 per month). These deals still exist, and are definitely better than renting in the city. buywithoutmortgage!
I rent in a gorgeous Brooklyn neighborhood that I couldn't possibly afford to buy in -- $1.8 million is what houses on my street sell for! In 15 years I retire. Since I don't plan to stay in the United States after retirement (I'm British), I'm now planning to buy my retirement home in a sunny European country where homes are vastly cheaper. Ron C
Location, location. I have lived in the city, Manhattan, since I was 5 years old. And I can't imagine myself living anywhere else. I have rented and I have bought -- and owning is really much nicer.
When you own, there is a feeling of permanence, particularly when decorating or renovating your apartment. But nowadays, buying in the city is absurd -- ads for apartments in desirable areas ''start at $1.5 million'' for a not-very-large space. The amenities now include workout rooms, spas, entertainment areas and the like, which all add up in maintenance and other fees. So, even though owning your own place is preferable, renting is much more doable in Manhattan now. Not a terrible option if you get lucky and find an apartment in a nice neighborhood. jblee
The age-old question for New Yorkers. ...
The answer depends on your situation, but with the current housing market, I would buy now. If you can afford to buy it will be worth it in 5 to 10 years, when property values skyrocket again.
Extremely low interest rates combined with distressed sellers makes a good investment very possible. Also, property ownership is a fairly decent hedge against currency inflation.
Obviously all this depends on the space, down payments, tax deductions, etc.
If you can afford it, buy it. If not, rent it. Chris

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DECISIONS: Renters at Cobble Hill Towers in Brooklyn have a chance to buy their apartments before a condominium conversion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE GLASSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); THAILAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



456 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: Look Who's Meditating Now

BYLINE: By IRINA ALEKSANDER

 BODY:
RUSSELL BRAND, the lanky British comedian, has made a career of his outrageous antics. While a host at MTV UK, he went to work dressed up as Osama bin Laden. At the network's annual music awards, he likened Britney Spears to a ''female Christ.'' And he was fired from the BBC after leaving raunchy messages on the voicemail of a 78-year-old actor, a comic bit that even his country's then-prime minister felt compelled to denounce.
It is jarring then, to say the least, to hear Mr. Brand, 35, speaking passionately and sincerely about the emotional solace he has found in Transcendental Meditation, or TM. Yet there he was in December, onstage at the Metropolitan Museum of Art (as his new wife, the pop singer Katy Perry, waited backstage), describing how TM has helped him repair his psychic wounds. 
''Transcendental Meditation has been incredibly valuable to me both in my recovery as a drug addict and in my personal life, my marriage, my professional life,'' Mr. Brand said of the technique that prescribes two 15- to 20-minute sessions a day of silently repeating a one-to-three syllable mantra, so that practitioners can access a state of what is known as transcendental consciousness. ''I literally had an idea drop into my brain the other day while I was meditating which I think is worth millions of dollars.''
Mr. Brand was the M.C. at a benefit for the David Lynch Foundation, an organization that offers TM at no cost to troubled students, veterans, homeless people, prisoners and others. Like many other guests in the room, Mr. Brand has been personally counseled by Mr. Lynch, the enigmatic film director, who has been a devout practitioner of TM, founded in 1958 by the spiritual leader Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, since its first wave of popularity in the late '60s. That is when Mia Farrow, after her divorce from Frank Sinatra, joined the Beatles in the Maharishi's ashram in Rishikesh, India; when George Lucas started meditating and was rumored to have based the Yoda character in ''Star Wars'' on the Maharishi (the resemblance is eerie); and when the talk show host Merv Griffin, after being introduced to the technique by his tennis buddy, the actor Clint Eastwood, invited the Maharishi to be on his show in 1975.
Since then, the celebrity endorsement, and therefore the enrollment numbers, had quieted down. That is, until the last three years when, according to the national Transcendental Meditation program, enrollment tripled.
At Trinity College in Hartford, the women's squash league began meditating together after every practice last year. The Doe Fund, an organization that assists the homeless, has begun offering TM to its residents along with computer skills and job training. And Ray Dalio, the billionaire hedge-fund manager of Bridgewater, has long credited the success of his funds to his daily practice.
The Transcendental Meditation program attributes the spike to a series of recent studies that suggest TM can help reduce blood pressure and stress, and to the relatively recent affordability of TM. (The adult course, which had ballooned from $75 in the '60s to $2,500 in 2007, dropped, because of the economy, to $1,500 in 2008.) No less important has been Mr. Lynch's foundation, started in 2005, for which enlisted celebrities like Mr. Brand, interrogated often by news outlets about their diets and alternative lifestyle remedies, have been preaching about the technique.
''It's like, imagine the ripples on top of an ocean,'' Dr. Mehmet Oz, who meditates in an armchair in an enclave off his bedroom, said at Mr. Lynch's benefit. ''And I'm in a rowboat, reactively dealing with the waves and water coming into my boat. What I need to do is dive into the deeper solace, the calmness beneath the surface.''
The actress Susan Sarandon meditates once a day for 20 minutes in bed. ''It helps me chill out and focus,'' she said. (Ms. Sarandon said she doesn't practice TM specifically, but was at the benefit to gather insight.)
The singer Moby, another guest, has meditated in the back of a taxicab. ''Transcendental Meditation has given me a perspective on agitation,'' he said. ''That it's a temporary state of mind and I don't necessarily need to take it that seriously.'' Moby said the technique helped him quit drinking more than a year ago. ''I used to think that TM was for weird old hippies,'' he added. ''But then I heard that David Lynch was involved, and that made me curious.''
ON the afternoon before the benefit, Mr. Lynch, 65, arrived at the museum, holding hands with his wife, Emily Lynch, 32, and was escorted by a museum employee to a green room downstairs. Mr. Lynch, like a cartoon character, has maintained the same uniform for decades: a pressed white shirt under a boxy black suit and a hedge of gray hair. He scooped up a soggy egg-salad sandwich from a tray and explained what brought him to the practice.
''I was not into meditation one bit,'' Mr. Lynch said, in his laconic Missoula, Mont., drawl that years of living in Los Angeles has failed to dilute. ''I thought it was a fad. I thought you had to eat nuts and raisins, and I didn't want any part of it.''
Mr. Lynch was persuaded by his sister, Martha, when he began having marital difficulties with the first of his four wives, Peggy, in the early '70s. ''I had a whole bunch of personal anger that I would take out on her,'' he said. ''I think I was a weak person. I wasn't self-assured. I was not a happy camper inside. Two weeks after I started, my wife comes to me and says, 'This anger, where did it go?' I felt a freedom and happiness growing inside. It was like -- poooft! -- I felt a kind of smile from Mother Nature. The world looked better and better. It's an ocean of unbounded love within us, so it's real hard to get a conflict going.'' (Still, a year later, the couple divorced.)
It's easy to shrug off such utterances as hokey, New Age prattle -- who can forget Jeff Goldblum's flaky character in ''Annie Hall'' on the phone, complaining that he'd forgotten his mantra? -- but less so when the person reciting it has dreamed up his most widely admired, vivid films on the days when he was dropping out of consciousness for at least 30 minutes a day.
''Artists like to say, 'I like a little bit of suffering and anger,' '' he said. ''But if you had a splitting headache, diarrhea and vomiting, how much would you enjoy the work and how much work would you get done? Maybe suffering is a romantic idea to get girls, but it's an enemy to creativity.''
As he continued to explain the practice, Mr. Lynch was becoming excited. And he was making sound effects again. ''It's like a key that opens the door to the treasury within,'' he said. ''Here's an experience -- poooft! -- total brain coherence. It's what's missing from life today: unbounded intelligence, creativity, bliss, love, energy, peace. Things like tension, anxieties, traumatic stress, sorrow, depression, hate, rage, need for revenge, fear -- poooft! -- all this starts to lift away. You see life getting better and better and better. Give the people that experience and -- poooft. Man, it's beautiful.''
Sharing that experience is the purpose of Mr. Lynch's foundation. Money raised at the December benefit -- along with private contributions -- pay TM program fees to teach the technique in schools and prisons and to other groups that apply for a grant. (Some public school parents have resisted on the premise that TM is believed by some to be rooted in Hinduism; the organization maintains that it's not a religion and that there is no inherent belief system.)
In the last decade, independent studies have found that the technique may reduce hypertension, obesity and diabetes in patients with coronary heart disease (Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles) and can be beneficial to brain function and cognitive development (American University). But Sara Weber, the chairwoman of the Contemplative Studies Project of New York University's postdoctoral program in psychotherapy and psychoanalysis, expressed some skepticism.
''Believe me, it's a great relaxation and everyone needs to relax, and probably relaxing makes everyone feel better and promotes some of those things,'' Dr. Weber said. ''And some people can deal with what arises just by calming down. But other people who have been through trauma disassociate and go into a deadened space where they don't feel. So what happens if that breaks down in the middle of one of those bliss sessions?''
In her experience, Dr. Weber said, the technique could even have adverse side effects. ''Some people report falling apart,'' she said. ''They can have very intense and bad emotional experiences.''
Back at Mr. Lynch's benefit, Robert Roth, the vice president of Mr. Lynch's foundation -- known to TM's celebrity clients as, simply, Bobby -- was sharing a table with Mr. Brand and Ms. Perry. Mr. Roth insisted that the celebrity muscle of the evening was for fund-raising purposes and wouldn't have much sway over bringing in clients. ''No one is going to meditate twice a day because a Hollywood filmmaker is doing it,'' Mr. Roth said.
Though it helps with publicity, the Hollywood community's embrace of the technique could in theory cheapen TM's message, in light of that particular group's capricious spiritual tastes -- Madonna and the kabbalah or Tom Cruise and Scientology.
Indeed, at least one guest at the benefit had already moved on from TM.
''I tried it 10 years ago,'' said Rose McGowan, the actress. ''It was fantastic, but now I do fight training. For me, personally, it's the only thing that gets me out of my mind. I think even David Lynch would approve.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POSTER BOY: Russell Brand with David Lynch at the December Met fund-raiser for Mr. Lynch's foundation, which promotes Transcendental Meditation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
OM: Far left, David Lynch explains Transcendental Meditation at his fund-raiser. Left, practitioners in Lower Manhattan. Left below, McCrea Davison and her Trinity College squash teammates meditate daily. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
DONNA ALBERICO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
SHANA SURECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST8
 ST9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDITATION (91%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MUSIC (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); POP & ROCK (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); RELIGION (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); FILM DIRECTORS (50%); SQUASH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (72%); BRITNEY SPEARS (58%); CLINT EASTWOOD (57%); RAY DALIO (50%); GEORGE LUCAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); UTTARANCHAL, INDIA (50%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



457 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Athletes Come Out In Support Of Japan

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

 BODY:
They had just moved back to Britain from Japan, and for several days, the British marathon star Mara Yamauchi and her Japanese husband watched coverage of the developing catastrophe and felt moved beyond words, yet powerless.
Then their friend, the British marathon coach Martin Yelling, called with the right idea. Yelling and some of his colleagues wanted to help relief efforts by mobilizing the global running community, asking people to dedicate one of their runs to Japan with a corresponding donation.
The goal: to cover collectively a distance amounting to the circumference of the earth -- 24,901 miles, or nearly 40,000 kilometers -- in 28 days, with at least one run dedicated from every country in the world. 
The Web site, runforjapan.com, was started Thursday, and by the end of the day in Britain, with word just starting to spread, runners from places as farflung as India, Australia, South Africa, the United States and Japan had registered their runs and support.
''It's been heartbreaking watching on TV, but through running, which is such a positive thing, we can encourage others to make a difference,'' said Yamauchi, who is an ambassador for this initiative along with Britain's biggest running star, Paula Radcliffe.
''Japan is also a running-mad country, so I think using running as a tool to help will appeal to the Japanese population,'' she said. ''It is just a way for us to help in a small way with a huge problem.''
Small, well-conceived ideas have a chance to grow bigger in a hurry, however, and Japan could clearly use help from all quarters as it faces a death toll that has risen above 6,000 and a repair bill estimated by some specialists at more than $100 billion.
''I think for any country to recover from the scale of this disaster -- the earthquake, the tsunami, the nuclear power station issues -- would be an incredible task,'' said Yamauchi, a former British diplomat, in a telephone interview. ''Yes, economically it's been difficult the last sort of 10 to 15 years, but I think Japan will definitely rebound. I've been really struck by the dignity and strength people show despite all the suffering they are going through.''
Though governments and major relief organizations are, by nature, best equipped to address a problem of these proportions, numerous sports figures around the world are once again doing what they can to raise awareness and funds, with awareness at this stage clearly less of an issue.
The South Korean pitcher Park Chan-ho, now with the Orix Buffaloes of the Japanese Pacific League, has donated <5>10 million, about $124,000. The South Korean soccer star Park Ji-sung, who plays for Manchester United but started his professional career in Japan, has pledged 100 million won, about $88,000.
In the United States, the New York Yankees donated $100,000 to relief efforts last week, and this week, Boston Red Sox pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka and other Japanese players on the team joined Red Sox staff at the gates of the team's spring-training stadium in Fort Myers, Florida, to encourage and collect donations from fans before games.
In Lenzerheide, Switzerland, site of the weather-bedeviled World Cup finals in Alpine skiing, several top racers, including Julia Mancuso of the United States and Didier Cuche of Switzerland, have pledged prize money to Japan relief and are attempting to mobilize their community on the Web site skiershelpingjapan.com.
In Khanty-Mansiysk, Russia, at the world biathlon championships, the four members of the team that won the 30-kilometer relay for Norway last week, including the sport's leading man, Ole Einar Bjoerndalen, donated their prize money.
In Indian Wells, California, on Thursday, the world's No. 1 tennis player Caroline Wozniacki and her friend and quarterfinal opponent Victoria Azarenka posed with a Japanese flag on which Wozniacki had written ''Our thoughts are with you!'' They then asked for the crowd to join them in a minute of silence.
There was also silence in Tignes, France on Wednesday before the SuperPipe final at the European edition of the Winter X Games, and more silence before the start of every UEFA club soccer competition match this week, including four in the Champions League.
There have been scores of other pauses for mourning and reflection, many other gestures large and small. Others are surely on the way: from Miami, site of the next major tennis tournament, to Seoul, where the South Korean national soccer team will donate a significant percentage of proceeds from a friendly match against Honduras on March 25.
The sports world is, after all, a mere subdivision of the wider, more daunting world. Though sports have often seemed much closer to a distraction than a welcome diversion at a time when the focus belongs on Japan, sports can remain relevant by helping to sharpen that focus.
Yamauchi feels more relevant now that she is encouraging her fellow runners to put on their spikes for a country she holds dear and where she and her husband, Shigetoshi Yamauchi, lived until just last week. They moved to Britain to be closer to Mara Yamauchi's aging parents and to have access to top medical treatment as she attempts to recover from a lingering hamstring injury in time to challenge at next year's Olympics in London (she was 6th in the Olympic marathon in Beijing).
''I left on the 24th of February and Shige left Japan and arrived here on the 10th of March,'' Yamauchi said. ''We went to sleep, woke up on Friday morning and got a call from my mother saying, 'Put on the TV. There's been a massive earthquake in Japan.'''
But though Yamauchi has now found a way to act as well as observe, she is not quite ready to be a full participant in her own relief campaign.
''I'm afraid I'm doing a walk for Japan tomorrow,'' she said. ''I wish I could do a run for Japan, but I'd get a telling off from my physio if I do that.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); SOCCER (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BASEBALL (77%); TSUNAMIS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ATHLETES (76%); RUNNING (58%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (50%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (50%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (58%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



458 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Starter Castles

BYLINE: By CHARLES WILSON

 BODY:
Handcrafted masonry. Lots ofbedrooms. Priced to move. Needs plumbing.
Text by Charles Wilson
The economic crisis and a depressed market for luxury real estate have meant that scores of castles and historic properties are on the market, and many are priced to move. A medieval chateau, a 14th-century Spanish castle and the former tower home of an Irish chieftain are among the storybook structures pictured here in search of new owners in a more prosaic age. 
''Take what you would pay for a condominium,'' says Stephen Ferrada, a former Porsche designer who lives in a renovated Saxony villa, ''and you can now buy a castle and restore it to a reasonable standard.''
In Ireland, some 3,000 castles exist in varying states of disrepair -- many of them never fully recovered after the raids by Oliver Cromwell's New Model Army in the 1600s. Throughout Europe, local municipal governments inherited these neglected castles and estates (especially after the fall of communism), but the cities and towns often lack the money to renovate and retrofit them for new uses. It is not uncommon to find a decaying castle offered for sale in Saxony or the former Soviet bloc for less than $100,000. For prospective buyers, the restoration costs are what often prove prohibitive.
Some of the historic properties on the following pages were carefully restored at considerable cost but have failed to find buyers in the wake of the financial collapse. Helen Cassidy, an auctioneer in Ireland who specializes in castles, admits that despite the romance, repurposing a fortress for the 21st century is not for everyone. ''The reality,'' Cassidy says, ''is that you no longer have to build on a high hill, watching out for baddies and pouring oil on them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Medieval chateau, Lot-et-Garonne, France (MM58-MM59)
Medieval chateau, Lot-et-Garonne, France: Original asking price: $4 million. Current asking price: $2.8 million. Bought as a second home in 2002 by a fi nancier and his interior-decorator wife, this medieval chateau with seven bedrooms is an hour and a half from Bordeaux and Toulouse. It has been fully renovated and contains old and new touches: exposed-beam ceilings, chunky oak doors, high-end bathrooms with heated towel rails, even secret staircases. In part because of its rural isolation in southwestern France, the castle has languished on the market for nearly three years, and the asking price has dropped by 30 percent. (MM60)
Killahara Castle, County Tipperary, Ireland: Original asking price: $1.53 million. Current asking price: $1.25 million. The Irish writer Tom O'Neill and his restoration-specialist friend Noel Ryan bought this 16th-century Irish castle in 2006 and undertook a thorough conservation effort -- renovating the building to a comfortable standard while doing the minimum amount of structural change. Including the restoration, O'Neill and Ryan spent more than $1.25 million on the castle
at its current asking price, they would not quite break even. While O'Neill waits to fi nd a buyer, he has taken to renting out the place for weekends. ''We haven't put in a TV,'' O'Neill says. ''All you hear outside is an owl and sometimes the rooks. The silence and the sense of previous generations seeps into you.'' (MM61)
Castle Altdobern, Brandenburg, Germany: Asking price: Negotiable. Once the home of a Jewish cigarette manufacturer who fl ed the Nazis, this ornate castle with more than 50 rooms dates to the early 1700s and sits in a wooded area about 80 miles south of Berlin. After the end of the Second World War, it served as a retirement home and kindergarten before falling into disuse. The efforts of a number of investors to transform the castle into an upscale hotel or a tourist attraction have failed over several decades. The building is now owned by a castles' association, which is extensively renovating the interior with the hope of readying it for a potential occupant. (MM62
MM63)
14th-century castle, outside Girona, Spain: Original asking price: $3.9 million. Current asking price: $2.4 million. Javier Augusto Pineda, a Spanish-American real estate investor, bought this 14th-century castle with a defense tower and 390 acres in 2004, intending to restore it and live there full time with his wife. After the financial crisis left him with several speculative properties in Florida that he couldn't sell, he put the castle on the market. Its roof and internal and external walls have been restored
Pineda has dropped his asking price twice and sold a portion of the original land. ''My dream was to have a small zoo with different animals and to have carriages to take people around,'' Pineda said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HARF ZIMMERMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM64
 MM65) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); AUCTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (69%) SACHSEN, GERMANY (92%); AQUITAINE, FRANCE (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); BRANDENBURG, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (92%); IRELAND (91%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



459 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: No Exit

BYLINE: By DAVID GREENBERG. 
David Greenberg is a professor of history and journalism at Rutgers University and currently a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars .

 BODY:
In his 1922 treatise ''Public Opinion,'' the young Walter Lippmann dealt a blow to Progressive Era dreams of a rational, well-functioning mass democracy. In the modern world, Lippmann argued, the number and intricacy of policy issues and the human tendency to cling to irrational stereotypes had rendered the public far less capable of enlightened deliberation than liberals had long supposed.
For all the bleakness of ''Public Opinion,'' Lippmann concluded on a curiously optimistic note. In his coda, he claimed that despite everything he had said in the previous 250 pages, he rejected the notion that ''intelligence, courage and effort cannot ever contrive a good life for all men.'' The preceding years of world war and crisis, Lippmann said, offered models of inspiration as well as despair, and a new realism might yet beat back ''the brutality and the hysteria'' of modern life. 
Reviewers praised ''Public Opinion'' for its relevance, its insights, its clarity of thought. But one after another bemoaned the last pages, deeming them unpersuasive and unsupported by what came before. Lippmann's rival pundit H. L. Mencken, writing in The Smart Set, denounced the book's final pages as ''mystical gurgle,'' nothing more than ''the old democratic answer'' that the ''imbecility'' of the masses can be cured ''by spreading enlightenment, by democratizing information, by combating what is adjudged to be false by what is adjudged to be true.''
Lippmann's experience will be familiar to almost anyone who has written a book aspiring to analyze a social or political problem. Practically every example of that genre, no matter how shrewd or rich its survey of the question at hand, finishes with an obligatory prescription that is utopian, banal, unhelpful or out of tune with the rest of the book. When it comes to social criticism, no one, it seems, has an exit strategy.
Consider a few cases of hard-headed criticism yielding suddenly to unwarranted optimism. Allan Bloom's ''Closing of the American Mind'' (1987), still an influential filleting of university life, features on its last page this thought: ''I still believe that universities, rightly understood, are where community and friendship can exist in our times. . . . They have served us well.'' Al Gore's Bush-era polemic ''The Assault on Reason'' (2007), which argues that the rise of new media, increasing income inequality and deepening partisanship have driven evidence and logic from public debate, still ends with the former vice president declaring, ''I feel more confident than ever before that democracy will prevail.''
If books don't take refuge in unfounded hope, they may descend into banality. ''Irrational Exuberance'' (2000), by the Yale economist Robert Shiller, became deservedly famous for its uncommon prescience in warning about the financial bubble. But its takeaway advice, including nuggets like ''Investors Should Diversify'' and ''Retirement Plans Should Be Put on a Sounder Footing,'' might have come from almost any financial magazine.
Of course, the alternative to pedestrian suggestions or forced optimism may be hopeless utopianism. Upton Sinclair's classic expose, ''The Jungle'' (1906), gripped the nation with its stomach-churning accounts of rats scampering over carcasses and workers tumbling into vats of lard. But Sinclair's final chapter, which slides into preachy socialist catechism -- sermons about labor economics, windy passages of doctrine, the abundant use of buzzwords like ''parasites,'' ''proletariat,'' ''unproductive members of the community'' and so on -- was derided even at the time as heavy-handed and unrealistic. (Theodore Roosevelt, despite considering Sinclair a ''crackpot,'' seized on the book's popularity to pass the first sweeping food safety legislation, but Sinclair thought his regulation inadequate.)
Heirs to Sinclair's muckraking tradition can be guilty of similar overreach, even when their recommendations stop short of ideological revolution. In ''Fast Food Nation'' (2001), Eric Schlosser concluded his chronicle of the horrors of America's low-end restaurant chains with a call for Congress to ''ban advertising that preys upon children,'' ''stop subsidizing dead-end jobs'' and ''fight against dangerous concentrations of economic power.'' Fine things. Unfortunately, Schlosser admitted, Congress ''isn't likely to do any of them soon.''
Even those social critics who acknowledge the difficulty of their solutions cannot help offering up the equally quixotic hope that people will somehow rise up spontaneously against the diagnosed ills. In ''The Image'' (1961), Daniel Boorstin's jeremiad against staged news and manufactured experience, the final pages offer this desideratum: ''Each of us must disenchant himself, must moderate his expectations, must prepare himself to receive messages coming in from the outside.'' Similarly, Robert Putnam's ''Bowling Alone'' (2000), which documents the decline of communal social life, argued that institutional reforms wouldn't succeed, or happen at all, ''unless you and I, along with our fellow citizens, resolve to become reconnected with our friends and neighbors.''
The weakness of last chapters is in large part a function of the sheer difficulty of devising answers to complex social problems that are sound, practicable and not blindingly obvious. Besides, those who give the most subtle diagnoses may not have the problem-solving disposition needed to come up with concrete, practical recommendations.
But if the rousing what-to-do chapter is usually so disappointing, why do so many books include them? One reason is that editors expect them. The journalist Michelle Goldberg conceived her first book, ''Kingdom Coming: The Rise of Christian Nationalism'' (2006), as a work of reportage on a subculture of growing political influence. She hardly felt qualified to lay out an agenda for curbing the power of the religious right, but ''one of my editors insisted I do it,'' she recalled in a recent interview. Inevitably, reviewers called her on it, with one mocking her proposal that liberals seeking to maintain church-state separation should ''win their neighbors over, not just beat them in court.''
But in the end, most authors have themselves to blame. Having immersed themselves in a subject, almost all succumb to the hubristic idea that they can find new and unique ideas for solving intractable problems. They rarely do, and even works that do usher in specific reforms or broad social transformations -- from ''The Jungle'' to ''The Feminine Mystique'' -- do so by raising awareness about an issue, not by providing ready-to-go blueprints.
Yet solutions seem to be what our national temper demands. ''It is one of the peculiar intellectual accompaniments of democracy that the concept of the insoluble becomes unfashionable -- nay, almost infamous,'' Mencken wrote in ''Notes on Democracy'' (1926), a screed against popular rule written in part to rebut Lippmann. ''To lack a remedy is to lack the very license to discuss disease.'' Mencken suggested that this pervasive attitude stemmed from the unrealistic hopes vested in democracy itself, which he said ''came into the world as a cure-all and . . . remains primarily a cure-all to this day.''
''Notes on Democracy'' stands today as a coruscating denunciation of the foibles of the American political system, albeit one riddled with ugly reactionary sentiments. Oddly, though, in the last pages, Mencken -- whose appeal as a writer lay in his baroque invective and unrelenting negativity -- struck a sentimental note, chirping that if America is drenched in rascality, ''we have borne that rascality since 1776, and continue to survive.'' Professing to find democracy ''infinitely exhilarating,'' despite having shown little sign of affection for it throughout his book, he declared that he really saw no need to change things much. The book, in all honesty, would have been better without the last chapter.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YAREK WASZUL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

PERSON: AL GORE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



460 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: Stress Test for the Global Supply Chain

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR; David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
TONY PROPHET, a senior vice president for operations at Hewlett-Packard, was awakened at 3:30 a.m. in California and was told that an earthquake and tsunami had struck Japan. Soon after, Mr. Prophet had set up a virtual ''situation room,'' so managers in Japan, Taiwan and America could instantly share information.
Mr. Prophet oversees all hardware purchasing for H.P.'s $65-billion-a-year global supply chain, which feeds its huge manufacturing engine. The company's factories churn out two personal computers a second, two printers a second and one data-center computer every 15 seconds.
While other H.P. staff members checked on the company's workers in Japan -- none of whom were injured in the disaster -- Mr. Prophet and his team scrambled to define the impact on the company's suppliers in Japan and, if necessary, to draft backup plans. ''It's too early to tell, and we're not going to pretend to predict the outcome,'' Mr. Prophet said in an interview on Thursday. ''It's like being in an emergency room, doing triage.'' 
The emergency-room image speaks volumes. Modern global supply chains, experts say, mirror complex biological systems like the human body in many ways. They can be remarkably resilient and self-healing, yet at times quite vulnerable to some specific, seemingly small weakness -- as if a tiny tear in a crucial artery were to cause someone to suffer heart failure.
Day in and day out, the global flow of goods routinely adapts to all kinds of glitches and setbacks. A supply breakdown in one factory in one country, for example, is quickly replaced by added shipments from suppliers elsewhere in the network. Sometimes, the problems span whole regions and require emergency action for days or weeks. When a volcano erupted in Iceland last spring, spewing ash across northern Europe and grounding air travel, supply-chain wizards were put to a test, juggling production and shipments worldwide to keep supplies flowing.
But the disaster in Japan, experts say, presents a first-of-its-kind challenge, even if much remains uncertain.
Japan is the world's third-largest economy, and a vital supplier of parts and equipment for major industries like computers, electronics and automobiles. The worst of the damage was northeast of Tokyo, near the quake's epicenter, though Japan's manufacturing heartland is farther south. But greater problems will emerge if rolling electrical blackouts and transportation disruptions across the country continue for long.
Throughout Japan, many plants are closed at least for days, with restart dates uncertain. Already, there are some ripple effects worldwide: for example, a General Motors truck plant in Louisiana announced on Thursday that it was shutting down temporarily for lack of Japanese-made parts. More made-in-Japan supply-chain travails are expected.
''This is going to be a huge test of global supply chains, but I don't think it will be a mortal blow,'' says Kevin O'Marah, an analyst at Gartner-AMR Research. ''I think that over all we'll see how resilient and quick-learning these networks have become.''
THE good news for the world's manufacturing economy is that the sectors where Japan plays a vital role are fairly mature, global industries. Consider computing and electronics. For major components, like semiconductors, production is now spread across several countries. By contrast, in the early 1990s, virtually all 486-microprocessors -- the engines of the most powerful personal computers of the time -- were made at a single Intel factory near Jerusalem.
Japan's importance in the semiconductor industry as a whole has receded in recent years, as more production has shifted to South Korea, Taiwan and even China. Japan accounts for less than 21 percent of total semiconductor production, down from 28 percent in 2001, according to IHS iSuppli, a research firm.
Still, Japan produces a far higher share of certain important chips like the lightweight flash memory used in smartphones and tablet computers. Japan makes about 35 percent of those memory chips, IHS iSuppli estimates, and Toshiba is the major Japanese producer. But South Korean companies, led by Samsung, are also large producers of flash memory.
Apple, like all major companies these days, treats its supply-chain operations as a trade secret. But industry analysts estimate that Apple buys perhaps a third of its flash memory from Toshiba, with the rest coming mainly from South Korea. The lead time between chip orders and delivery is two months or more. A leading customer like Apple will be first in line for supplies, and it has inventories for several weeks, analysts say. So there will be little immediate impact on Apple or its customers, but even Apple will likely be hit with supply shortages of crucial components in the second quarter, predicts Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray.
The field of buying and shipping supplies has been transformed in the last decade or two. Globalization and technology have been the driving forces. Manufacturing is outsourced around the world, with each component made in locations chosen for expertise and low costs. So today's computer or smartphone is, figuratively, a United Nations assembly of parts. That means supply lines are longer and far more complex than in the past.
The ability to manage these complex networks, experts say, has become possible because of technology -- Internet communications, RFID tags and sensors attached to valued parts, and sophisticated software for tracking and orchestrating the flow of goods worldwide.
That geographic and technological evolution, in theory, should make adapting to the disaster in Japan easier for corporate supply chains. ''In the past, when you had a disruption, the response was regional,'' says Timothy Carroll, vice president for global operations at I.B.M. ''Now, it's globalized.''
Most anything can be tracked, but it takes smart technology, investment and effort to do so. And as procurement networks become more complex and supply lines grow longer -- ''thin strands,'' as the experts call the phenomenon -- the difficulty and expense of seeing deeper into the supply chain increases.
''Major companies have constant communications and deep knowledge of primary suppliers,'' says David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. ''It's in the secondary layers of suppliers -- things that are smaller, barely noticed -- where the greater risk is.''
Indeed, supplies of larger, more costly electronic components, like flash memory and liquid crystal displays, tend to grab the most attention. But, says Tony Fadell, a former senior Apple executive who led the iPod and iPhone design teams, ''there are all kinds of little specialized parts without second sources, like connectors, speakers, microphones, , batteries and sensors that don't get the love they deserve. Many are from Japan.''
Lacking some part, even if it costs just dimes or a few dollars, can mean shutting down a factory, Mr. Fadell adds.
A recent analysis by IHS iSuppli, taking apart a new Apple iPad2, identified five parts coming from Japanese suppliers: flash memory from Toshiba, random-access memory for temporary storage from Elpida Memory, an electronic compass from AKM Semiconductor, touch-screen glass from Asahi Glass, and a battery from Apple Japan.
Further down the supply chain lie raw materials. Trouble for a supplier to a company's parts supplier can cascade across an industry. For example, reports that a Mitsubishi Gas Chemical factory in Fukushima was damaged by the tsunami have fanned fears of a coming shortage of a resin -- bismaleimide triazine, BT -- used in the packaging for small computer chips in cellphones and other products.
Two Japanese companies are the leading producers of silicon wafers, the raw material used to make computer chips, accounting for more than 60 percent of the world's supply. The largest is the Shin-Etsu Chemical Corporation. Its main wafer plant in Shirakawa was damaged by the earthquake, and the factory is down. ''The continuing violent aftershocks are complicating the inspection work,'' said Hideki Aihara, a Shin-Etsu spokesman in Japan, on Friday. ''Right now we can't say how badly it was damaged or how long it might take to get started.''
Shin-Etsu does have factories outside Japan. ''But the most advanced manufacturing and silicon-growing processes are done in Japan,'' says Klaus Rinnen, a semiconductor analyst at Gartner. And growing silicon ingots, which are then sliced into wafers, is a lengthy, delicate process that will be hampered by power failures or other disruptions, he says.
Big chip makers like Intel, Samsung and Toshiba typically hold inventories of silicon wafers for four to six weeks of production. ''But after that, it will get tougher,'' Mr. Rinnen says.
THE Japan quake, some experts say, will prompt companies to re-evaluate risk in their supply chains. Perhaps, they say, there will be a shift from focusing on reducing inventories and costs, the just-in-time model, pioneered in Japan, to one that places greater emphasis on buffering risk -- a just-in-case mentality.
Adding inventories and backup suppliers reduces risk by increasing the redundancy in a supply system. It is one way to enhance resilience, experts say, but there are others.
They point to an example that is well known to supply-chain mavens. In 1997, there was a fire at a plant of one of Toyota's main suppliers, Aisin Seiki, which made a brake valve used in all Toyota vehicles. Because of the carmaker's just-in-time system, the company had just two or three days of stock on hand. So the fire threatened to halt Toyota's production for weeks.
But Toyota and teams of suppliers in the company's supply-chain network worked round the clock for days to design and set up alternative production sites. Toyota's assembly plants reopened after being shut down for just two days.
''That kind of resilient capability, I think, is what we'll see in Japan over the weeks and months ahead to put these supply chains back on their feet,'' says Charles H. Fine, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
For global operations managers like Mr. Prophet of H.P., the Japanese disaster will be a severe test of their supply networks and systems. Once the triage stage is passed, though, it will be a learning experience as well. ''We'll do a retrospective on what worked best and what didn't, and how to change things to make our supply chain more resilient,'' he says.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A disruption in silicon wafer production can then stall makers of memory chips and, ultimately, consumer products. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MEMC ELECTRONIC MATERIALS
DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
At Hewlett-Packard, which builds computers in Tokyo, the disaster response has been described as ''doing triage.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARUYOSHI YAMAGUCHI/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Apple products have components from around the world. The new iPad has at least five parts from Japanese suppliers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOLLY RILEY/REUTERS)(BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TSUNAMIS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (86%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); SHIPMENTS (67%); POWER FAILURES (64%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (62%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); ICELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



461 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: John Fitzpatrick

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Fitzpatrick, 50, is the president of the Fitzpatrick Hotel Group, North America, which owns and operates boutique hotels in Manhattan under that name. The company is celebrating its 20th year of doing business in the United States.
Mr. Fitzpatrick is also the chairman of the Hotel Association of New York City, a trade group.
Q You hosted a few dignitaries from Ireland for the St. Patrick's Day Parade. 
A Yes, we have a lot of government ministers, politicians and top business people. The new minister for foreign affairs, Eamon Gilmore, stayed here.
Liam Neeson's mother, Kitty, was here to celebrate her 85th birthday.
St. Patrick's Day is celebrated here so much more than it is in Ireland. This is the great platform, though, for Ireland to come out and showcase itself, which is why a lot of the government people and dignitaries come out.
Q It's also a good platform for your business.
A Absolutely. It opens up huge doors. But remember: our hotels here are not just for the Irish.
Q What percentage of your business comes from Irish visitors?
A About 30 percent.
Q What percentage of your staff, including yourself, is Irish?
A I try to mix it with Irish and American, because I think a little bit from each side helps the culture, though I want the Irish presence because people love to hear the accent. I would say maybe 15 percent of my staff is Irish.
I became a U.S. citizen about five or six years ago. Americans don't recognize dual citizenship, but Ireland still recognizes me. It was kind of frightening that day in Brooklyn when I was getting sworn in. I wanted to be a U.S. citizen, but I didn't want to give up my Irish heritage.
Q You've embarked on a major renovation at your Manhattan hotels on Lexington Avenue and across from Grand Central.
A We just pumped a lot of money into them -- between $12 million and $13 million total. Now we're finishing up; we just have the lobby to do at Grand Central.
Q You have only two hotels in New York. Are you looking to add to your portfolio?
A I wouldn't say ''only.'' Having one hotel is an achievement.
I had another one in Chicago and I sold it at the peak. We got a huge offer I couldn't refuse. I used the proceeds to refinance here and buy my family out. My sister bought me out of the hotel business in Ireland, but we still work together. In Ireland, family businesses can be contentious.
Q But are you looking at any distressed properties?
A We are always looking, and definitely we are looking at the moment, at three or four. I'm more into buying existing hotels and trying to restructure than building something out of the ground.
Q Speaking now as the chairman of the Hotel Association, how is the market in New York?
A It's tough times. But during the recession we kept our occupancy high by giving good rates. Rates were down, on average, 40 percent; in some cases more.
In 2008 we had an average occupancy rate of 85.5 percent with an average daily rate of $307; in 2009 it was 81.8 percent with an A.D.R. of $237, and last year 84.7 percent and $255 A.D.R.
Things are coming back slightly, but I think what's slowing it down is all this new inventory.
Q How so?
A Nearly 7,000 rooms were added in the city in 2010. In the pipeline for this year we have another 4,000 rooms. And if you add them all up, 14,000 rooms since 2008. Then we have this issue with all the illegal hotels.
Q What are guests looking for?
A It's not just the 5 or 10 percent off -- you've got to give them value. You may upgrade them to suites, or if they come with the family don't charge them for the third person.
It's the old-fashioned service. A lot of people call on their guests by phone. In Ireland, not that they don't toot there, but they get out and knock on those doors.
My father had a great saying, and I say this to a lot of my employees: ''No matter how big you get or how many hotels you have, remember you're an innkeeper.''
Q Fitzpatrick has 20 years in the city now.
A It was 20 years in mid-January. Unofficially I opened up on the 20th of December 1990, and it was a bit embarrassing because we didn't have a liquor license yet.
Q You live in a hotel, don't you?
A How did you find that out? I live in one of the private residences at the Plaza. People ask me why I can't live in my own hotel. There's a penthouse on the 17th floor, which I did live in for about 10 years, but I just had no life. I took a day off, I found I was sneaking back into my hotel.
Interview conducted and condensed by VIVIAN MARINO

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); FAMILY (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (71%); CITIZENSHIP (67%); LOBBYING (58%)

COMPANY: FITZPATRICK HOTEL GROUP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRELAND (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



462 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths SILVERMAN, SANDRA

 BODY:
SILVERMAN--Sandra. The Board and staff of the Scherman Foundation are deeply saddened by the death of our former President. 
A proud daughter of Chicago, she embraced her adopted home of New York with characteristic passion and energy. Beginning in the Lindsay administration, she served the city in numerous capacities including: press secretary of the 1975 Charter Revision Commission, member of the 1992 Democratic Convention Host Committee; and member of the Taxi and Limousine Commission. In addition to a distinguished career in public relations (M. Booth, Soref and Silverman, etc.) she was the founding executive director of the Citizens Committee of New York City, the city's leader in supporting block associations and neighborhood revitalization. She joined the Foundation's board in 1984 and its staff in 1993, serving as President until 2009. Her dedicated and dynamic leadership increased both the effectiveness of our giving and the visibility of the Foundation. She played a particularly significant role in the reproductive rights field, leading funder groups and inspiring frontline organizations. Meetings with grantees were defined by her generosity and warmth, as well as her genuine curiosity. She loved politics, she loved do-gooders, and she deeply loved her colleagues and her gang of friends, who will all desperately miss her warmth and intelligence. We extend our love and condolences to her brother Marvin and sister-in-law Barbara of Jerusalem as well her many nieces, nephews and other family members whom she loved so much.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



463 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2426 words

HEADLINE: A Crisis That Markets Can't Grasp

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
THE risks are clear enough in hindsight.
The Tokyo Electric Power Company built its Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant, nearly 40 years ago, to withstand a powerful earthquake -- but not one as big as the 9.0-magnitude quake that struck on March 11. Or the tsunami that followed. Now, the terrible ''ifs'' accumulate, as Japanese engineers work to bring the station's reactors under control. The ultimate price, in human life, may not be known for years.
The details of this catastrophe were unforeseeable, leading some to conclude this was a black swan event -- something so wildly unexpected, so enormous in its impact, that it seems to defy our understanding and expose the fragility of our knowledge of the world. How could anyone have predicted this?
And yet in 2007, Tokyo Electric Power, or Tepco, escaped a disaster at its huge Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear power station, on the opposite side of Japan, when that plant was damaged by a 6.8-magnitude earthquake -- three times as large as what the plant was designed to withstand. Tepco basically lucked out last time. 
So perhaps a bigger question is whether the markets -- in which we have come to place so much trust -- can put a true price on outsize risks like this.
Many have compared the events unfolding in Japan with 9/11, Hurricane Katrina, the financial collapse of 2008 and 2009, the BPoil spill, and the uprisings in the Arab world -- in that all have shown the limits of the collective wisdom of the marketplace. For a moment, all the swans seemed black. And those swans seemed blacker still when viewed through the lens of today's hyperkinetic global markets.
''There are an amazing number of crosscurrents in the world economy right now, more than I've seen in 25 years,'' said Shawn Reynolds, a co-portfolio manager at Van Eck Associates in New York.
Like everyone else, corporate executives, economists and financial analysts in Tokyo, New York, London and beyond struggled last week to wrap their heads around the scale of this disaster. But, as they so often do, the analysts quickly fell to work assessing the implications for companies, markets and economies. At times, it was almost surreal: On Tuesday, Laszlo Birinyi, a prominent stock market analyst based in Westport, Conn., e-mailed around a succinct report titled ''Nuclear Meltdowns at a Glance.''
This is what happens on Wall Street. If you're not immersed in the culture, it might be hard to understand the cool calculus that is applied to world events, however dire those events might be. After the quake hit on March 11, the CNBC anchor Larry Kudlow told viewers, ''The human toll here looks to be much worse than the economic toll, and we can be grateful for that.'' He later apologized.
As the week wore on, and prices were gyrating on everything from a share of I.B.M. to a ton of copper, everyone was making back-of-the-envelope calculations. There is still no clear consensus about how far the economic shocks will reverberate. Many analysts are guessing -- and then second-guessing -- how the disaster will play out in northeast Japan. The first, tentative analysis seemed painfully obvious: the Japanese economy, already weak, perhaps already in a recession before calamity struck, will become even weaker.
On Friday, the Group of 7 industrialized nations took the rare step of intervening on the world's foreign exchange markets to stem a sudden rise in the value of the yen. The currency had soared all week against the dollar -- the exact opposite of what you might expect. But Japanese companies and investors were bringing their money home, to pay for huge rebuilding costs.
After its most harrowing week since the 1987 market crash, the Tokyo Stock Exchange found its footing on Friday. But it was a week like few others on the exchange: the Nikkei 225 stock index, Japan's equivalent of the Dow Jones industrial average, fell 6.2 percent on Monday, plunged 10.5 percent on Tuesday, rebounded 5.7 percent on Wednesday and sank 1.4 percent on Thursday. It closed up 2.7 percent on Friday, at 9,206.75.
The loss for the week totaled 1,048 points, or 10.2 percent.
IF you happen to visit a Wall Street trading floor, walk over to the nearest Bloomberg terminal, type ''WRST'' and hit the green key that says ''go.''
WRST -- that is short for ''worst,'' as in, ''worst-case scenario.'' The program enables Wall Street types to measure the level of risk in their investment portfolios under a variety of scary circumstances modeled on past crises, including the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the bankruptcy of WorldCom in 2002 and the devaluation of the Thailand's currency, the baht, in 1997.
Such ''what if'' scripts are the stuff of modern Wall Street. Everyone runs them. Entire schools of financial analysis are devoted to examining historical market patterns in the belief that those patterns can predict the future.
Such analysis, of course, depends on -- and perhaps even encourages -- our belief that tomorrow will be much like today. And all that despite the fine-print caveat on your 401(k) statement that reads, ''Past performance is no guarantee of future success.''
Nassim Taleb, the author and market theorist who popularized the phrase ''black swan'' in his 2007 best seller, argues that we have psychological biases that blind us to the enormous role played by rare events -- like a 9.0-magnitude earthquake. And yet we rely on history for guidance. On Wednesday, Mr. Birinyi's research firm sent out another report, this one titled ''S.& P. 500 Enters Modest Correction.'' His firm predicted a slight decline in the American stock market.
''If the averages hold,'' the report said, ''the S.& P. 500 will bottom at 1,232 on 3/31/11.'' On Friday, the S.& P. 500 closed at 1,279.19, down 1.9 percent for the week.
Whatever else they may be, markets are immensely complex counting machines. They assign values to products, whether computer chips or potato chips, based on the canny appraisals and gut beliefs of people around the planet. From day to day, it is often hard, if not impossible, to know exactly why a certain price moved the way it did. Those daily movements are often just the white noise of global capitalism.
Then there are stretches of extreme volatility, periods when no one quite seems to agree about where anything is going. That may be part of what occurred last week: in the face of such a disaster, not even a short-term trend could congeal.
As yet, no one has reliable numbers about the scope of the destruction, said Al Tobin, who heads the property practice at Aon Risk Solutions, the risk management brokerage business of the Aon Corporation. The human toll, the economic toll -- ''no one knows the answer to that question,'' he said.
Given such uncertainty, the markets could remain even more volatile than usual, said Mohamed A. El-Erian, chief executive of Pimco, the world's largest bond manager. ''The market right now is trying to wrap its arms around the enormity,'' he said.
The verdict is not yet in.
Mr. El-Erian divided market strategists into two camps. The first, he says, views the events in Japan as ''more than just a massive human tragedy; it also has significant implications for the global economy.'' The second, he says, believes that the effects of this disaster, however heart-rending, will be transitory for most of us.
But he doesn't yet know which camp is right. ''I don't understand it fully yet,'' he said, ''but I am worried about it.''
Big economic questions remain unanswered. How would a severe slowdown in Japan, the world's third-largest economy, affect the rest of the globe? How will Japan, which is already deeply in debt, pay for the reconstruction? Some are already arguing that the enormous, high-cost task of rebuilding could, over time, snap Japan out of its long economic funk.
MARKET strategists pride themselves on being able to digest vast quantities of data quickly. They tend to be practical and versatile people, the kind who can put aside emotions and philosophical questions when business calls.
On Thursday, a sunny St. Patrick's Day in Manhattan, Jonathan Golub, the chief equity strategist for the giant Swiss bank UBS, said he was trying to master some of the intricacies of nuclear technology. ''Now I find myself talking about fuel rods and cooling pools,'' he said. It was, he said, not an uncommon type of experience: Before the financial crisis, even many people on Wall Street didn't quite know what a credit default swap was. Before long, everyone was throwing around terms like ''swaps'' and ''C.D.S.''
Mr. Golub said he felt for the people of Japan. He then went on to say, at a news briefing, that once the current market volatility subsided, this crisis should have only a marginal impact on America's economy and stock market, whose prospects were quite good. He predicted that the S.& P. 500 would reach 1,425 by the end of the year.
Still, because supply chains have gone global like so much else, the disaster has already had a very real impact in the United States. Last week, Subaru slowed operations of its auto plant in Indiana because it could not obtain key parts from Japan. General Motors said it would shut a truck plant in Louisiana because of a shortage of parts. The semiconductor industry has also slowed because Japan is a major supplier of silicon wafers and other components.
Despite its position as the world's No. 3 economy, Japan actually accounts for a relatively small -- and shrinking -- amount of the world's collective economic output. It contributes about 9 percent of global gross domestic product, down from about 18 percent in the 1990s. And because of the rapid acceleration of the so-called BRIC countries -- Brazil, Russia, India and China -- and of other emerging markets, Japan's contribution to growth of global G.D.P. is marginal.
Lakshman Achuthan, the managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, a private forecasting group with an excellent track record, says that Japan's economy, which he believes is already in recession, won't appreciably affect the direction of the economy in the United States. The disaster, however, ''ensures that Japan is in a recession,'' he said.
All of this, of course, assumes that the nuclear disaster, already the biggest since Chernobyl, doesn't get too much worse.
THE financial markets have always had a difficult relationship with nuclear power, largely because the costs -- and potential risks -- associated with nuclear plants are so huge. Day to day, nuclear power is cheap. But it is unclear how to accurately assess the cost of disposing of nuclear waste over the long run -- or, perhaps, the cost of disasters like the one in Japan.
Robert N. Stavins, a professor at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard and director of the university's environmental economics program, has studied this issue for years. In an article in the centennial edition of the American Economic Review in February, Professor Stavins said that economists had not yet solved the ''tragedy of the commons,'' the quandaries that arise when many people, acting in their own self-interest, ultimately pose a threat to the common good. For instance, how should we allocate environmental costs to power producers? How should the environmental costs of various fuels -- fossil or nuclear -- be calculated?
So far, the markets seem to have failed to provide an answer to all of those questions. A National Research Council study last year tallied up environmental costs for various fossil fuels but did not even try to do so for nuclear power because the ''power-plant risk modeling and spent-fuel transportation modeling'' required was beyond the scope of the council's study.
In the United States and elsewhere, governments have capped the liability of nuclear power producers. As a result, Professor Stavins said, ''You can argue that the markets have never really had a chance to price nuclear power.''
In the face of black swans -- also known as fat-tail events, for the way their occurrences are distributed along a probability curve -- market pricing may be impossible.
Martin Weitzman, another Harvard economist, wonders, for example, how Wall Street or anyone else could place an accurate price on the risk that an asteroid would crash into a major population center. In a controversial mathematical proof called, perhaps appropriately, the Dismal Theorem, he found that ''it's very hard to make reliable inferences about rare events on the tails of probability distributions.''
Is the nuclear disaster under way in Japan such a rare event, one that economists cannot accurately price? It is too early to say, Professor Weitzman said. ''It might be.''
IT has been more than 30 years since Three Mile Island, and 25 since Chernobyl.
In the ensuing years, one nuclear plant was completed in the United States and shut down before ever going into commercial operation. That was the Shoreham plant, on Long Island, which cost roughly $6 billion. Its fate was decided in 1989, when state officials concluded that Long Island could never be evacuated in case of a disaster.
The Fukushima accident has already caused a temporary slowdown in the nuclear industry. Officials in India and China said last week that they would re-evaluate their plans for building plants. Germany announced that it would temporarily shut seven nuclear plants that went online before 1980. The European Union made plans to test all the other nuclear power plants within its member countries.
In the United States, President Obama, who has promoted building new nuclear power plants, asked the Nuclear Regulatory Commission last week to review the safety of all United States plants.
However imperfectly, the market will pass judgment.
Mr. El-Erian of Pimco says the outlook is unusually uncertain. Investors, like everyone else, should understand that the world is a risky place.
''You need to use a whole range of approaches to understand the market in a situation like this,'' he says, ''and you need to be humble.''
And, perhaps, accept a sober reality: the next black swan is out there somewhere. --

CORRECTION-DATE: March 27, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about Japan's crisis and the financial markets misstated part of the name of the journal in which Robert N. Stavins, a Harvard professor, wrote about the ''tragedy of the commons'' -- the quandaries that arise when people, acting in their own self-interest, pose a threat to the common good. It is the American Economic Review, not the American Economic View.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An explosion Monday at the Fukushima plant, just one headline from a week that overwhelmed investors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NHK, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(BU1)
The ultimate costs of coal plants like the one in Thompsons, Tex., are easier to tally than those of nuclear plants, especially because of problems like waste disposal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Subaru slowed production in Lafayette, Ind., because it can't get some parts from Japan. G.M. is temporarily closing one plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL CONROY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Laszlo Birinyi, a stock market analyst, issued a report last week with the title ''Nuclear Meltdowns at a Glance.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
''I don't understand it fully yet,'' Mohamed El-Erian of Pimco said of Japan's crisis, ''but I am worried about it.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL MUNOZ/REUTERS)
Jonathan Golub of UBS says investment professionals are used to becoming instant experts when news breaks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ING, VIA PR NEWSFOTO)
 Prof. Robert Stavins of Harvard says markets may never have had a chance to factor in all the risks of nuclear power. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARVARD)(BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); TSUNAMIS (77%); ENGINEERING (73%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (68%); HURRICANES (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (94%)

TICKER: 9501 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (94%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



464 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Washington Vs. The Merciless

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
It is hard to read the news from Japan to the Persian Gulf and then reflect on American politics and not conclude, as scientists would say, that we're running an uncontrolled experiment on the only country and planet we have. And what is that experiment? We're basically taunting -- there is no other word for it -- the two most merciless forces on earth: the market and Mother Nature.
At a time when Japan is suffering a nuclear catastrophe that is likely to make the world even more dependent on oil and gas, at a time when the world's top oil and gas producers are entering what will be, at best, an unstable, and, at worst, a viciously violent transition from autocracy to, one hopes, democracy, and at a time when the combination of the two could slow down global growth while we're still trying to climb out of recession, America has no energy policy, no climate policy and no long-term plan to deal with its unsustainable deficit. 
We're basically saying to the market and Mother Nature: ''Bring it on. We're going to be dumb as we wanna be and put off all these big decisions, possibly until 2013, after the next presidential election, because our two political parties would rather focus on winning the next election and blaming the other guy than making hard choices.''
Maybe the market and Mother Nature will accommodate us and wait until 2013. If so, we will get to deal with these problems in our time, in our way, with minimum collateral damage. It will be like having a rotten tooth removed by a dentist using lots of Novocain. It will hurt a little, but we'll easily recover.
If, on the other hand, the market suddenly loses confidence in our ability to maintain the value of our currency, or Mother Nature hits some internal climate tipping point, or Saudi Arabia is destabilized -- any one of which could happen without warning -- we will not have the luxury of a painless extraction from this situation. When the market and Mother Nature force adjustments, they never provide painkillers and, well, they're not very precise. When they act, it's like having a rotten tooth removed by a caveman using stone tools. He'll smash a lot of other teeth at the same time, and there will be blood all over the floor. That's what we're courting right now.
President Obama has the right convictions on all these issues, but he has not shown the courage of his convictions. The Republicans have just gone nuts.
If you listen to Obama, he eloquently describes our energy, climate and fiscal predicaments: how we have to end our addiction to oil and cut spending and raise revenues in an intelligent way that also invests in the future and doesn't just slash and burn. But then the president won't lead. When pressed on energy, he will say that he just doesn't have the Republican votes for a serious clean energy policy. But the president has never gotten in the G.O.P.'s face on this issue. He has not put his own energy plan on the table and then gone out to the country and tried to sell it.
It is what a lot of Obama supporters find frustrating about him: They voted for Obama to change the polls not read the polls.
On fiscal policy, the president has put forth a decent opening budget bid and has opted for the same inside game of letting Congress take the lead in forging a compromise with the G.O.P. that would bring spending under control and raise revenues. That inside game worked for the president in producing health care reform and the stimulus, but in those cases he had a Democratic majority to push through decent legislation. I fear this time he will not have the votes for the kind of serious, sensible, Simpson-Bowles-like budget cuts and tax increases we need -- without his leading and enlisting the public in a much more aggressive way.
Republicans, by contrast, are insisting that we can somehow drill our way out of our energy problems, and House Republicans just reported out of committee a bill that would block the E.P.A. from taking any action to reduce greenhouse gases, while also slashing government funds to keep air and water clean. So far, the G.O.P. is calling for cuts in the things we need to invest more in -- like education and infrastructure -- while leaving largely untouched things we need to reduce, like entitlements and defense spending. A country that invests more in its elderly than its youth, more in nursing homes than schools, will neither invent the future nor own it.
The world is caught in a dangerous feedback loop -- higher oil prices and climate disruptions lead to higher food prices, higher food prices lead to more instability, more instability leads to higher oil prices. That loop is shaking the foundations of politics everywhere. That's why the world needs a strong America more than ever, and that's why it is vital that we fix our structural problems -- now.
If we leave it for the market and Mother Nature to make the adjustments for us, we will be sorry -- and so will the world. We are the keystone holding up the global system. If we go weak, our kids won't just grow up in a different America; they will grow up in a different world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TOOTH DISORDERS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); ELECTIONS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (90%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



465 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1575 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
TIME OF RESPONSE
TO PLANT CRISIS IS AT ISSUE
With plant workers and soldiers struggling to re-establish cooling at Japanese crippled nuclear power plant, the question is whether time is working for or against them. Experts say the question is surprisingly hard to answer. But it is taking on an urgency as questions mount about whether the plant's owner, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, and the Japanese government responded quickly or effectively enough in the early hours of the crisis. Page 12
OBAMA HEADS TO BRAZIL
President Obama and his family arrived in Brazil for his first trip to South America, a five-day tour that is intended to underscore economic ties to the region but that is overshadowed by crises in the Middle East and Japan. Page 5 
A QUANDARY OVER QUINOA
The demand for quinoa, an Andean plant with an exceptional balance of protein and amino acids, is soaring in rich countries, as American and European consumers discover the ''lost crop'' of the Incas. The surge has helped raise farmers' incomes in Bolivia, one of the hemisphere's poorest countries. But there has been a notable trade-off. Fewer Bolivians can now afford it, hastening their embrace of cheaper, processed foods and raising fears of malnutrition in a country that has long struggled with it. Page 5
ARISTIDE'S LONG SHADOW
Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Haiti's first democratically elected president, returned from exile, just days before Haiti's elections and after a vow not to insert himself in its democracy. There is, of course, debate over whether Mr. Aristide has already inserted himself through his very return. News Analysis. PAGE 6
National
RECLAIMING AN IDENTITY
WASHED OUT IN A FLOOD
When the Cedar River rose higher than ever before three years ago, it swept across the neighborhood in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, known as Czech Village with particular brutality. When the waters receded, questions that had quietly nagged for years re-emerged with new urgency. Among them: How can the community -- long filled with the smells and sounds of Eastern Europe -- rebuild an eroded ethnic identity? Page 20
RALLYING FOR SISTER CITIES
Many American cities have been sending aid to their sister cities in Japan that have been hit by the earthquake and tsunami. Mayors and city councils broker the relationships, which often include the exchange of gifts and students. PAGE 24
New York
A STATE SENATOR
AND HIS SHADOW FAMILY
The tangled ties among State Senator Carl Kruger, an Albany power broker and Democratic moneyman, two never-married, middle-aged brothers, Drs. Michael S. and Gerard I. Turano, and the doctors' mother, has long been a topic of gossip and speculation in the insular neighborhood of Mill Basin, Brooklyn, and nearby precincts. They were thrust into view this month when the senator and the older Turano brother were among eight men charged in what the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York described as ''a broad-based bribery racket.'' PAGE 28
RECALLING THE TRIANGLE FIRE
In 2004, Ruth Sergel began commemorating the fire at the Triangle Waist Company, which killed 146 garment workers in 1911, by chalking the victims' names, ages and cause of death near the places where the workers lived. PAGE 28
Sports
LOCKOUT LEAVES GREEN BAY
WITH A TITLE, BUT NO TEAM
The N.F.L. lockout and the threat of a canceled 2011 football season have disquieted fans in many American cities, but the unease in Green Bay (population 102,000) is profound and multilayered. In the league's smallest market, the Packers not only give the region a cherished identity and an annual economic boost of more than $280 million, they are also the N.F.L.'s only community-owned franchise, with more than 112,000 shareholders. Page 1
FROM APPRENTICE TO SURVIVOR
Thirteen years, six pennants and four World Series titles after Bob Watson resigned in February 1998 and recommended his 30-year-old assistant as his replacement, Brian Cashman is baseball's third-longest-tenured G.M. His unlikely path to this point began as a young intern with the team, and he has been with the organization for a quarter century. PAGE 1
M.M.A. DEBATE RAGES ON
Last year, a bill to legalize mixed martial arts in New York passed the State Senate and was approved in two committees of the Assembly but was not brought up for a general vote. Its opponents say the sport is too violent and dangerous, but supporters say that contests would bring in millions of dollars. PAGE 9
Obituaries
AL MORGAN, 91
He was a novelist, screenwriter, playwright and television producer, and was probably best known for writing ''The Great Man,'' a 1955 novel that became the basis of a movie of the same name. PAGE 26
HAZEL ROWLEY, 59
She was a biographer whose subjects ranged from a neglected Australian writer to a famous African-American one. PAGE 26
Sunday Business
DISASTER IN JAPAN PRESENTS
HURDLE FOR GLOBAL SUPPLY
The global flow of goods routinely adapts to all kinds of glitches and setbacks. A supply breakdown in one factory in one country, for example, is quickly replaced by added shipments from suppliers elsewhere in the network. Sometimes, the problems span whole regions and require emergency action for days or weeks. But the disaster in Japan, experts say, presents a first-of-its-kind challenge, even if much remains uncertain. Page 1
RENEWED LOOK AT WATCHES
The cellphone has become a ubiquitous, multifunctional device that, incidentally, showed the time. As a result, many people younger than a certain age have never acquired the habit of wearing a wristwatch. But a few companies are talking up wristwatches again, almost as if the cellphone had never appeared. It's an idea that seems oblivious to the consumer electronics landscape, Randall Stross writes. Page 3
Automobiles
NEW NISSAN JUKE A TRENDY,
BUT NIMBLE PERFORMER
It is instantly clear whom the new Nissan Juke is meant for, writes Robert Peele. Marketing to the Cool Kids is a tricky business, but Nissan seems determined to do just that with this model. Beyond its look-at-me styling, the small Nissan Juke crossover is a spirited and agile performer. Sports, Page 13
QUEST FOR ETHANOL-FREE GAS
Many restorers of vintage cars as well as owners of boats, snowmobiles and garden tractors say they would prefer buying gasoline that contains no ethanol, complaining of poor performance and breakdowns. But there is no simple remedy for this situation, and pressure to develop the market for renewable fuels is making 100 percent gasoline more of a challenge to find. Sports, Page 13
Arts & Leisure
MODERN HANDS CREATING
A GARDEN FROM HISTORY
At the Metropolitan Museum of Art, craftsmen from Morocco are creating a new courtyard to anchor the center of the galleries devoted to Islamic art. Page 1
SETTING A WICKED STAGE
The British theater company Punchdrunk has made a name for itself on the back of its impressive use of stagecraft. Page 4
Magazine
THE SUBURBANIZATION
OF THE FORMER CHAMP
The gold caps in his teeth are gone, as are the frenzied trappings of celebrity. Mike Tyson, a former world champion has, as he puts it, learned to love the boring life. Page 24
THE LOVE OF THE GEEKS
Action-flick fan-boys are the online equivalent of the Colosseum crowd. Which presents the question: is filmmaker Zack Snyder their emperor or their slave? Page 30
Style
STEPPING OUT OF A SHADOW
GAYLE KING GETS OWN SHOW
With a new talk show and an increasingly high profile of her own, Gayle King is no longer just Oprah's best friend. Ms. King's show on the Oprah Winfrey Network has the rambling, low-key feel of radio, writes Frank Bruni. Page 1
LOVE OVER A GREAT DISTANCE
That there were 1,200 miles and several states between them meant constant motion. But soon the distance took its toll and the miles added up. Modern Love. Page 6
Book Review
A DATA DELUGE: INFORMATION
AS THE UNIVERSAL LIFE BLOOD
In ''The Information,'' James Gleick argues that information is more than just the contents of our overflowing libraries and Web servers. It is human consciousness, life on earth, the cosmos, in short ''the blood and the fuel, the vital principle of the world.'' Page 1
Week in Review
A SLEEPING DANGER
IN CHERNOBYL, UKRAINE
Twelve times a month, Sergei A. Krasikov takes a train across the no man's land of Chernobyl, Ukraine, and reports for work at a structure enclosing Reactor No. 4, also known as ''the sarcophagus.'' Mr. Krasikov has been baby-sitting the 200 tons of nuclear fuel that must not get wet, shielded by a sarcophagus riddled with cracks for eight years. Page 1
Editorial
A CUOMO BUDGET
COMPOSED ONLY OF CUTS
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is right to argue for spending cuts, but his refusal to impose any new taxes on New York's wealthiest residents makes no sense. Week in Review, Page 9
D.I.Y. IMMIGRATION REFORM
Going solo on immigration reform, as Utah has decided to do, is not a good idea, even with good intentions. Week in Review, Page 9
THE PASSION OF DOROTHY DAY
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
In putting off big policy decisions, we are brazenly taunting two unforgiving forces: Mother Nature and the markets. Week in Review, Page 10
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
The selfless teamwork in Japan following the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis can inspire us all. Week in Review, Page 11
MAUREEN DOWD
With only one cameo under his belt, a former Connecticut senator becomes Hollywood's ambassador to Washington. Week in Review, Page 11
In the life of Dorothy Day, co-founder of the Catholic Worker Movement, a story of sainthood and the single woman. Week in Review, Page 9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (85%); CITY LIFE (84%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (74%); MALNUTRITION (73%); MARRIAGE (70%); MAYORS (69%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (68%); EROSION (68%); TSUNAMIS (67%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (56%)

COMPANY: TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (84%)

TICKER: 9501 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOLIVIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); HAITI (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



466 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Obama Begins Visit to Brazil, Under the Shadow of the Libyan Crisis

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

 BODY:
BRASILIA -- Behind the scenes here, President Obama on Saturday performed the most profound act of a commander in chief: sending American forces into conflict. Publicly, however, he kept to the schedule of his first visit to South America, hailing the United States' growing economic and political ties with Brazil and predicting ''a path toward even greater cooperation for decades to come.''
The two countries' differences were also aired, if gently, as Mr. Obama met with the newly elected president of Brazil, Dilma Rousseff, who has signaled a desire for closer relations with the United States.
Each president criticized the trade barriers of the other's country even as they celebrated improvements in their relations, including an increase in trade that has created jobs in both places. 
Mr. Obama praised Brazil as ''a global leader'' but declined to endorse its bid for a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council, which is considering a reorganization to give permanent membership and a greater voice to emerging powers like Brazil. Last fall, in a visit to India, Mr. Obama lent support to that country's hopes for a permanent seat.
Brazil and India, both temporary members of the Security Council, were among the five nations that abstained in Thursday's vote to authorize force against Libya. They said the resolution was too broad, illustrating a desire to act independent of the traditional big powers.
While Mr. Obama and Ms. Rousseff did not announce any major agreements after their private meeting and subsequent sessions with business leaders from the United States and Brazil, they did announce accords for further talks toward cooperation on economic, financial, energy and trade issues.
''It's time for the United States to treat our engagement with Brazil on economic issues as seriously as we do with nations like China and India,'' Mr. Obama said to applause at a forum of American and Brazilian corporate executives.
Mr. Obama came here with his family and top advisers to open a five-day trip to Brazil, Chile and El Salvador that was intended to underscore economic opportunities in the region, especially in Brazil. But his visit was overshadowed from the start by the approach of the multinational military campaign to defend the Libyan opposition against attack by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's forces. By late afternoon, Mr. Obama interrupted his appearances to announce to reporters that American troops had joined those from European and Arab nations in carrying out the Security Council resolution.
Even in a presidency that has been defined by crises inherited and new, Mr. Obama's day stood out for the mix of long-planned diplomacy and unexpected crisis management. Besides the situation in Libya, administration officials were monitoring events in Japan.
The Obama administration has long described the trip, especially its Brazil leg, in terms of its potential economic benefits for the United States -- in keeping with Mr. Obama's main domestic theme.
So White House officials remained confident that his absence from Washington was easily justifiable in terms most Americans could support -- especially given the ever-present communications available to a traveling president.
In his weekly address carried Saturday on radio and the Internet, Mr. Obama spoke of the hundreds of thousands of American jobs owing to exports to Brazil and Chile. And in remarks here, he said: ''Brazil's extraordinary rise has captured the attention of the world. The United States doesn't simply recognize Brazil's rise; we support it enthusiastically.''
For all of the mutual praise, Mr. Obama and Ms. Rousseff were direct in their criticisms, particularly Ms. Rousseff.
She said the two countries' relationship had in the past been marked by ''empty rhetoric'' from the United States. A ''deeper relationship'' with Brazil, which now has the world's seventh-largest economy, ''has to be a construct amongst equals,'' she said.
She objected to what she called American protectionism in some areas, saying that she understood that the United States had to take ''tough measures'' to restore growth after the global financial crisis, which Brazil largely escaped. But, she added, stronger ties would require the United States to lower trade barriers for Brazilian products like ethanol, beef, cotton, orange juice and aircraft.
Mr. Obama had a similar complaint against Brazil. ''As the World Bank has noted, there are still too many obstacles in the way of doing business in Brazil,'' he told a business group. ''And I know Brazil has issues with certain policies in the U.S.
''But I also know that there is no country that has more to gain than Brazil from expanded trade and open markets.''
Repeatedly, Mr. Obama said the United States wanted to help Brazil in building infrastructure for the 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Summer Olympics, and in developing Brazil's recently discovered deepwater oil reserves, and then buying the oil.
''At a time when we've been reminded how easily instability in other parts of the world can affect the price of oil,'' Mr. Obama said, ''the United States could not be happier with the potential for a new, stable source of energy.''
He and Ms. Rousseff also agreed to form a ''Green Economy Partnership'' to develop and help finance biofuels and other clean energy sources.
Brazil is expected to spend about $200 billion on public works related to the World Cup and Summer Olympics. ''American companies stand ready to help you meet this challenge, on everything from engineering to manufacturing to construction,'' Mr. Obama said.
The presidents announced an open-skies accord, a sort of free-market agreement liberalizing commercial aviation between their countries. But Mr. Obama said the two sides had not reached agreement on waiving visa requirements, as the Brazilians and the American tourist industry want.
Aside from its potential for better economic ties, the trip had also been promoted by the administration as a way for Mr. Obama to connect more generally with Latin Americans, especially in Brazil, a multiracial society where he has been wildly popular since his presidential campaign.
But the White House's plans to stage a speech in a plaza where thousands of Brazilians could see him were aborted in favor of one indoors, at the Theatro Municipal in Rio de Janeiro on Sunday, because of Secret Service security concerns.
To the delight of the Brazilians, Mr. Obama is traveling with his family: his wife, Michelle; his daughters, Malia and Sasha, who are on spring break; his mother-in-law, Marian Robinson; and Eleanor Kaye Wilson, his daughters' godmother.
Mrs. Obama is holding public events of her own, mostly to promote better education among South America's large youth population.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on March 20 about President Obama's visit to Brazil misidentified the Brazilian official accompanying Mr. Obama as he arrived at the Palacio do Planalto in Brasilia. She is Ambassador Maria De Lujan Caputo Winkler, the ceremonial chief of Brazil's Ministry of Foreign Affairs -- not President Dilma Rousseff.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama arriving on Saturday at the Palacio do Planalto in Brasilia, accompanied by President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) MAP: Mr. Obama's tour will also include Chile and El Salvador. (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); ARMED FORCES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); DILMA ROUSSEFF (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); INDIA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); CHILE (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



467 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: Collectors Go Looking For Nonalcoholic Blends

BYLINE: By TUDOR VAN HAMPTON

 BODY:
IT was not such an extraordinary wish, really. All Sam Hokin wanted to do was fill his motorcycle with gasoline.
The problem was, he wanted just gasoline in the tank, not a blend spiked with ethanol. Though ethanol proponents say that vehicles like Mr. Hokin's BMW K75, a 1991 model, will tolerate the brew known as gasohol pumped at most filling stations, he insists on finding alcohol-free fuel.
Mr. Hokin, a physics teacher and Web site developer, is not alone.
Many owners of boats, snowmobiles and garden tractors, and users of yard tools like string trimmers and chainsaws, say they would prefer buying gasoline that contains no ethanol. Online forums and car-club newsletters teem with complaints of poor performance and breakdowns attributed to gasohol. 
Restorers of vintage cars point to problems caused by the decay of older rubber components like seals, gaskets and flexible fuel lines, which can deteriorate when exposed to ethanol-blend fuels. Some replacement parts are available in modern materials that resist alcohol damage, but not all are.
''It's really a problem, and unfortunately, there is nothing you can do about it,'' said Keith Flickinger, curator of the Nicola Bulgari collection in Allentown, Pa. ''Not a lot of people are making high-tech stuff for the antique cars.''
There is no simple remedy for this situation, either. If anything, the pressure to develop the market for renewable fuels is making 100 percent gasoline more of a challenge to find.
Some 70 percent of the gasoline sold in the United States contains ethanol, according to the American Coalition for Ethanol, most of it at a concentration of 10 percent, known as E10.
The shift toward alcohol-dosed gas began after the oil shocks of the 1970s and accelerated in the 1990s with a federal mandate that fuels contain a minimum level of oxygen, a measure intended to reduce carbon monoxide emissions. Alcohol blends helped to meet that requirement, and as a side benefit raised the gasoline's octane rating -- a potential performance advantage.
In January, the Environmental Protection Agency approved gasoline-ethanol blends up to 15 percent ethanol, called E15, in cars, light trucks and sport utilities built after 2000. The E15 waiver raised a decades-old cap of 10 percent on ethanol blends for general use.
Even at that higher federal limit, the ability of fuel producers to meet Congressional mandates calling for much higher volumes of renewable fuels is not assured. The 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act requires producers to increase renewable fuel production eightfold -- to 36 billion gallons by 2022, from 4 billion in 2006 -- with 21 billion gallons coming from advanced biofuels like cellulosic ethanol.
''The 10 percent fuel blend was essentially a wall,'' said Chris Thorne, a spokesman for Growth Energy, an ethanol industry group. In 2009, Growth Energy filed a petition with the E.P.A. to raise the ethanol blend cap to 15 percent for all vehicles, regardless of vintage.
In reviewing the petition, the E.P.A. collected vehicle test data and sifted through more than 78,000 public comments. Ethanol supporters argued that the E.P.A. should approve E15 across the board. ''There is a mountain of data behind this,'' Mr. Thorne said. ''We think E15 should perform in all vehicles.''
Still, many consumers would rather not have any alcohol in their gasoline. Their reasons include reductions in fuel economy -- a gallon of ethanol contains about one-third less energy than a gallon of gasoline -- and alcohol's affinity for moisture, which can cause a multitude of engine problems.
The frustration of searching for alcohol-free gas for his BMW motorcycle led Mr. Hokin, who lives in Madison, Wis., to an increasingly popular solution: he started a Web site, pure-gas.org.
But in his quest to help other hobbyists around the country find 100 percent gas, Mr. Hokin encountered something he did not expect -- a barrage of political debates on his site.
''What I didn't want it to become is an anti-ethanol gathering place,'' Mr. Hokin said. ''The reason I made the site is so I could go tour on my motorcycle and get pure gas.''
The heated exchanges on Mr. Hokin's Web site are just one indicator of how emotional the ethanol issue can be.
Even racing series have taken a stand. IndyCar, organizer of the championship for Indianapolis 500 cars, and the American Le Mans Series for endurance racing were early adopters of ethanol blends, approving the use of concentrations up to 100 percent ethanol.
Since the beginning of the 2011 season, Nascar's top three national racing series have been using a Sunoco blend of E15 rated at 104 octane. Nascar has reported a small horsepower improvement -- less than 1 percent -- and a slight reduction in fuel economy.
The race-sanctioning group acknowledges that the switch in fuels was driven by factors other than on-track performance.
''Any replacement to the percentage of carbon fuels is going to help lessen the dependence on foreign oil,'' said John Darby, managing director of competition at Nascar. ''We could let the debates go on forever or try to be more proactive. We wanted to be ahead of the game, to do something.''
The decision made by the E.P.A. in January expanded an earlier waiver, announced in October, that covered vehicles 2007 and newer. The broadened ruling covers vehicles back to 2001, reflecting the E.P.A.'s stance that E15 fuel would not harm the emissions equipment on those vehicles, but the agency declined to allow the higher gasohol blend for vehicles from the 2000 model year and earlier. The agency also is not allowing E15 for heavy-duty vehicles, motorcycles, snowmobiles, boats and lawnmowers of any model year.
''In our judgment, 2001 and newer cars have more ethanol-tolerant fuel systems, evaporative emissions controls, internal engine components and catalysts,'' an E.P.A. spokeswoman, Cathy Milbourn, wrote in an e-mail.
Running higher ethanol blends is especially a problem for catalytic converters, which are susceptible to premature failure resulting from higher exhaust temperatures. Ethanol's higher oxygen content, compared with gasoline, tends to raise combustion temperatures. That can increase the formation of smog-forming gases, mainly nitrogen oxides, which catalysts are designed to scrub.
Vehicles made before 2001 ''may have been designed for only limited exposure to E10 and consequently may have the potential for increased materials degradation with the use of E15,'' the E.P.A. said last fall.
When used in lawnmowers, leafblowers and other equipment not designed for gasohol, the extra heat can be a safety issue, according to groups opposing the E15 waiver.
''All of us are O.K. with ethanol, all of us are O.K. with designing new products,'' said Kris Kiser, spokesman for the Outdoor Power Equipment Institute. ''We don't want anybody hurt.''
The power equipment group, along with automakers and boatbuilders, is challenging the waiver in a lawsuit filed Dec. 20 in federal appellate court.
The E.P.A. is writing a pump-labeling rule to warn drivers against putting E15 in vehicles not covered under the waiver. Regulators expect to issue a final rule in the spring, Ms. Milbourn said.
In addition to emission controls, fuel systems are at risk with increased ethanol levels in cars not designed to withstand the corrosive effects of alcohol-based fuels. Motorcycles made with composite gas tanks have suffered failures as well.
As E10 has worked its way into the nation's fuel supply, old-car restorers have taken to rebuilding carburetors, whenever possible, with larger jets to let more gasoline into the engine.
With standard jets, the usual problem is drivability, Larry Claypool, a mechanic and restorer in Frankfort, Ill., said. ''The cars have hesitation or surging -- symptoms of running lean.''
That is not a problem on later models. ''In the newer cars that have electronic fuel injection and oxygen sensors, a sensor reads the exhaust and tells the computer to change the mixture,'' said Rod Dahlgren, a classic car collector and restorer in Napa, Calif. ''A carburetor can't do that.''
Changing to larger carburetor jets is one way that racing teams are achieving higher horsepower figures with E15, Mr. Darby, the Nascar official, said. ''The teams will richen the fuel that the engine sees a little bit.''
Condensation in the gas tank is another problem in older cars, especially ones that are driven infrequently. In cars with vented gas caps, moisture can readily enter the fuel tank and contaminate the supply. Because ethanol, like vodka and other grain alcohols, mixes with water, it can separate from gasoline in the tank, causing the engine to stall, or worse, increase corrosion.
''I just got off the phone with a guy in Texas who is looking for a new gas tank for his '58 Cadillac,'' Mr. Dahlgren said. ''The car is sitting in the garage, and all of a sudden, it starts to leak. It's not a good scenario.''
In an effort to combat corrosion and fuel degradation, some restorers will fill up with 100 percent gasoline before storing cars for long stretches.
Mr. Flickinger, the Bulgari collection curator, goes a step further, occasionally filling the collection's cars with 115-octane racing fuel. Though it may not be legal for cars driven on public roads, it improves performance.
''Everything comes to life,'' he said. ''It's like giving it something good to eat.''
Though it will be some time before regulatory hurdles, lawsuits and technical matters are resolved and E15 arrives at filling stations, Mr. Dahlgren, the California collector, is concerned about owners who prefer to drive, rather than just display, their vintage machines.
''More and more cars have been relegated to the garage because we don't want to damage them with the fuels out there,'' he said. ''It's really a shame. We're trying to preserve history.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NONALCOHOLIC: In Madison, Wis., ethanol-free gasoline for sale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU1)
 ROUGH SAILING: A boat owner said that these white deposits on a carburetor part appeared only after he began using gasohol. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOAT OWNERS ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED STATES) (AU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); ALCOHOLS (91%); ETHANOL (91%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); GASOLINE (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (77%); BIOMASS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (75%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (73%); INDUSTRIAL RUBBER PRODUCTS (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); RUBBER & SILICONE PRODUCTS (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (67%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (67%); CARBON MONOXIDE (63%); APPROVALS (62%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BOAT OWNERS ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED STATES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (73%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (55%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



468 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; THE BLOG; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. to Offer Used-Car Data

BYLINE: By STEPHEN WILLIAMS

 BODY:
Realizing that sellers and shoppers might want to see data about a used vehicle's fuel efficiency, the Environmental Protection Agency now offers an online tool to generate a do-it-yourself window sticker. 
At the agency's Web site, a seller lists the year, make, model and engine-transmission configuration of the vehicle, which generates a printable PDF with the vehicle's city, highway, combined fuel economy rating and a generic photo of the vehicle.
The label also displays a quick-response code that can be read by some smartphones to generate model literature and other data about the vehicle.
''We have fuel economy data on about 30,000 light-duty vehicles -- cars, mainly -- dating back to 1984 models,'' Bo Saulsbury, a spokesman for the project, said in a telephone interview. Mr. Saulsbury is a member of the research staff at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Oak Ridge, Tenn., which operates under the auspices of the Energy Department. ''We've been kicking around this idea for some time. What really got us going was the cash-for-clunkers program in 2009. With that, we started getting demand for labels like these.''
For owners who might expect significant drops or increases in mileage figures, the E.P.A. suggests not to worry. According to a note on the Web site, ''research shows that on average the fuel economy of a properly maintained vehicle will decline less than 2 percent over the 15 year life of a car.''
A fringe benefit of the PDF is that it looks official. ''If you're selling a car,'' said Mr. Saulsbury, ''we think prospective owners would rather see this data on a label, rather than being told it.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STICKER: A PDF will show a car's fuel economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); SMARTPHONES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



469 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: All Creatures Great and Lizardy, And Humans, Too

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
THERE is a special kind of appeal to stories that lead us to the far boundary of the human and allow us a glance at what is on the other side, where the wild things are. What often comes into view out there is a projection of something buried deep within. That wolf in the bed, in grandma's clothes, embodies some threatening animal emanation of the self, sexual or otherwise, lurking in disguise in our cozy domestic enclosures. Those invaders from outer space, preying on our cities, represent our own predatory, destructive urges in monstrous, alien form. And we can't forget the vampires, whose cold glamour places them at the busy intersection of love and death, where our longings chase their morbid shadows. 
All of this is pretty much what any moviegoer, even without the benefit of a college course in psychoanalysis, already knows. For much of the last decade, a culture war has raged in teenage America over whether it would be preferable to date a hunky, hot-blooded werewolf or his sallow, vampire rival. Catherine Hardwicke, who directed the first ''Twilight'' film adaptation, seems not to have succeeded in enticing the Team Jacob throngs over to her updating of the Red Riding Hood tale, but her pop-cultural hunch in conceiving it as a girl-power werewolf picture was not entirely wrong. The problem with her ''Red Riding Hood'' may be that it is both too coy and too obvious in mining the subtext of its ancient narrative, so that neither the romanticism nor the horror ever takes satisfying or potent shape. In spite of Amanda Seyfried's big eyes and Gary Oldman's even bigger aura of menace, the balance between the familiar and the uncanny is not quite right.
Gore Verbinski's animated ''Rango'' -- to take a counterexample that I hope will seem less far-fetched in a moment -- appears to have succeeded in finding a perfect blend of wildness and domesticity. The lizards, rodents and other creepy-crawlies that populate its desert landscape are far more grotesque to behold than traditional Disney fauna, but their ugliness only adds an extra frisson to the film's charming anthropomorphism. We might recoil and squint at first, but by the time ''Rango'' is over, the reptiles are as cuddly as bunnies or the fish in ''Finding Nemo'' or the ants in ''A Bug's Life.''
And also as human. One of the main purposes of modern feature-length animation is to blend together traditional film genres -- usually romantic comedy cross-bred with action-adventure -- and recast them as beast fables with ready-made merchandising potential. Animals who talk and behave like people are at least as old as Aesop, though of course neither Aesop nor Beatrix Potter had a reserve army of movie stars eager to augment their incomes by doing voice work. Nowadays, though, it is possible to believe in a new kind of fairy-tale curse, in which actors once known for wide-ranging and provocative live-action roles become trapped in their cartoon-animal identities.
Remember Eddie Murphy before he was Donkey in ''Shrek''? Maybe you do, but your children don't.
And while they might not understand the movie allusions that swarm through ''Rango,'' children will immediately recognize its animal planet as the synthetic product of human animation. The title character -- a chatty terrarium-bred lizard in a Hawaiian shirt (voiced by Johnny Depp) who adopts the name Rango in the course of his adventures -- finds himself in a dusty Western hamlet whose economic and ecological crises comes out of classic western movies by way of ''Chinatown.'' The mayor of this place is an ancient tortoise, its residents are moles, cockroaches and other less identifiable varmints, and the bad guy is a snake, but the town's problems with water and money replicate those of the human world that exists just over the horizon, where the highway is.
''Rango,'' so thoroughly saturated in references to well-known, non-beast-centered stories, practices a kind of reverse animism. Animism is a set of beliefs emphasizing the power of local spirits: creatures, plants, rock formations and other objects of nature. In ''Rango,'' though, the ''spirit of the West'' turns out to reside not in a mesa, a cactus or a coyote but rather in a person, a ghostly cowboy rendered by computers (and the voice of Timothy Olyphant) into the spectral likeness of Clint Eastwood.
There is some poignancy to this joke, because the West has long since ceased to be the wild frontier of anything, even to its resident wildlife. It is a region so thoroughly conquered by movies that it no longer exists outside them. And while the exuberant self-consciousness of ''Rango'' makes it a special case, the movie also has an interestingly elegiac undertow. It envisions -- and invents -- a world so saturated in cinema that no other reality is conceivable, and makes that reality seem both wonderful and a little bit sad.
This is one form of escapism -- an extreme, pleasurable and highly profitable kind -- in which the well-known and the novel are scrambled together and served up fresh. But if this kind of artifice is a specialty of cinema, so is the ability to discover what is truly strange in the world that exists. The appetite for nonhuman reality is fed by large-scale nature documentaries, which boast of never-before-seen footage of life in the wild, captured by daring camera operators using the latest technology. At the same time, though, these movies, with their own movie-star voices providing narration (for example Jeremy Irons in ''The Last Lions''), frequently offer a view of the wilderness, and animal behavior in particular, tamed for human consumption.
Monster movies cater to our fear that we might be just like animals: ravenous, unscrupulous, savage. Many nature documentaries feed the fantasy that they are just like us: protective, brave, family-oriented. Animated features toss out any distinction between people and animals, conjuring hybrid creatures with authentic-looking scales and fur who walk upright and spit out wisecracks and catchphrases. But there is another kind of filmmaking that tries both to respect the difference between human and natural worlds and to seek out the places where they intersect.
''Uncle Boonmee Who Can Recall His Past Lives,'' from the Thai director Apichatpong Weerasethakul, has elements that could have come out of one of Hollywood's 3-D animation factories. There is an animatronic talking catfish (who does some pretty R-rated stuff with a princess, but never mind); there are also large apelike creatures with glowing red eyes. Those beings, literally present to the main character and his friends, are also symbols of the jungle they inhabit, a realm beyond human comprehension, with its own laws and its own meaning. Uncle Boonmee, a farmer and bee-keeper dying of kidney disease, is saying goodbye to the world of nature -- some of the movie consists of a valedictory tour of the groves and mountains around his house -- and also preparing to rejoin it.
Mr. Weerasethakul's attention lingers over rocks, trees and caves, as though patient, quiet scrutiny might persuade them to yield up their secrets. But while his film could be called reverent, with a spirituality informed by Buddhism and by something much older, it is hardly naive. Its view of nature is as sophisticated as its understanding of cinema, and its dominant spirit is one of unresolved, skeptical exploration. It is a difficult movie to summarize, but not to watch, and obscure less in the manner of a puzzling poem than of the jungle at nightfall.
Even more sublime than ''Uncle Boonmee'' -- more mysterious and more rigorous -- is Michelangelo Frammartino's ''Quattro Volte,'' an Italian film that will open in limited release later this month. ''Le Quattro Volte'' at first looks almost like a parody of neo-Realism, as it follows an elderly goatherd through his austere, unvarying daily routines. But rather than contemplate social conditions in the Italian countryside, the film fixes its attention on matters at once metaphysical and material, taking as its subject nothing less than life itself. Its four chapters, proceeding without dialogue and using methods that combine documentary objectivity with Keatonesque sight gags, are miniature biographies of a man, a goat, a tree and some charcoal. Each has its season, its fate, its place in a cosmos whose ordering principles are at once manifest and manifestly unknowable.
In ''Le Quattro Volte'' nature speaks its own language: most of the ''dialogue'' consists of the braying of goats and the wind shaking the branches of trees. Watching it, you feel at home and also estranged -- confirmed in your humanity and unsure of just what it means.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above left, the title character in ''Rango'' (voiced by Johnny Depp)
top, a scene from Apichatpong Weerasethakul's ''Uncle Boonmee Who Can Recall His Past Lives''
above, Giuseppe Fuda in ''Le Quattro Volte.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ''INDUSTRIAL LIGHT &AMP
MAGIC/PARAMOUNT PICTURES AND NICKELODEON MOVIES
STRAND RELEASING
 LORBER FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMALS (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (77%); MAMMALS (77%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (73%); FILM (73%); FILM GENRES (73%); ANIMATION (71%); RODENTS (71%); COMEDY FILMS (68%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (65%)

PERSON: JOHNNY DEPP (50%); GORE VERBINSKI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



470 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: 'Mildred Pierce': A Mother's House Of Love and Hurt

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

 BODY:
ASKED recently about his longstanding attraction to the melodramatic form known as the woman's picture -- ''the untouchable of film genres,'' as the critic Molly Haskell once put it -- the director Todd Haynes had a ready answer.
''Stories about women in houses are the real stories of our lives,'' he said. ''They really tell what all of us experience in one way or another because they're stories of family and love and basic relationships and disappointments.'' 
Women in houses are a staple of Mr. Haynes's work, whether in the self-help culture of Southern California (''Safe'') or the suffocating Eisenhower-era suburbs (''Far From Heaven''). Even his cult hit ''Superstar,'' which used Barbie dolls to tell the story of Karen Carpenter's losing battle with anorexia, fits that description. His newest work, ''Mildred Pierce,'' an HBO mini-series starring Kate Winslet (it is to have its premiere next Sunday), is his first for the small screen and, at five and a half hours, his largest in scale. An adaptation of the 1941 James M. Cain novel, it is also a revision of the mother of all mother movies, directed by Michael Curtiz in 1945 and starring an Oscar-winning Joan Crawford as Mildred, the long-suffering embodiment of maternal sacrifice.
Mr. Haynes, 50, first encountered the original film in the early 1980s as a student in the art and semiotics program at Brown University. Framed as a whodunit -- it opens with the killing of Mildred's second husband, the rakish Monty Beragon -- the original ''Mildred Pierce'' has long been a staple of feminist film theory, which generally views it as a conflicted genre hybrid that combines the masculine conventions of film noir and the feminine ones of melodrama.
As Mr. Haynes realized when he read Cain's novel at the urging of a friend, the novelist Jon Raymond, the noir trappings of the film -- released the year after Billy Wilder's adaptation of the pulpier Cain story ''Double Indemnity'' -- came not from Cain but from Hollywood. There is no murder mystery in the novel, nor are there any crimes apart from shady business doings and familial betrayals. Cain's book also has less in common with the cloistered Hollywood woman's picture than with melodramas that plant their heroines in the thick of the real world: the unsparing films by Rainer Werner Fassbinder set during Germany's postwar economic miracle, like ''The Marriage of Maria Braun,'' come to mind.
Sensitive to the effects of the Great Depression on family and gender dynamics, Cain depicts Mildred's relationships -- with a series of unreliable men and with her self-absorbed older daughter, Veda-- primarily as transactions, ''played out,'' as Mr. Haynes put it, ''through money, through finance, through class.''
''The novel felt intensely relevant,'' said Mr. Haynes, who read it in 2008, with the Great Recession looming and conversations about class in America taking on renewed significance. ''I love how it links potential pathologies in maternal desire with potential excesses in middle-class yearning.''
Mr. Haynes's longtime producer Christine Vachon, having partnered with HBO a few times through her company, Killer Films, had urged him to consider a television project, and the larger canvas of a mini-series made sense for a faithful adaptation of ''Mildred Pierce.'' Mr. Haynes recruited Mr. Raymond to collaborate on the teleplay, which they structured as five approximately hourlong episodes. (Parts 1 and 2 will be shown next Sunday, Part 3 on April 3, and Parts 4 and 5 on April 10.)
Over tea in the West Village recently, Mr. Haynes said he was still recovering from the sheer size and pace of the production: HBO signed on in 2009 and the 17-week shoot started shortly after. ''It was like doing three feature films in the time of one,'' he said. (The past year was a difficult one for him personally: his mother died over the summer while he was in production.)
The luxurious running time meant that Mr. Haynes and Mr. Raymond could preserve most of the book's crucial events (and retain large chunks of dialogue verbatim), and it also allows the story's darker ambiguities to sink in. ''In Cain's work there's a perversity of the imagination that's really exciting,'' Mr. Raymond said. ''He comes to some really daring and unexpected emotional nerve points.''
Even at the script stage Mr. Haynes had envisioned Ms. Winslet in the lead role. ''Mildred is somebody who translates her emotional frustrations into work, but she also discovers a sort of sensual life,'' he said. ''I saw an equivalent in Kate's force on screen, her physical commitment.''
For Ms. Winslet ''Mildred Pierce'' was an endurance test unlike any she had faced: the script was 280 pages and she would appear in every scene. ''Knowing that I had to be present for that amount of screen time, that in and of itself was a challenge,'' she said on the phone from Paris, where she was shooting a film with Roman Polanski. It helped that in Mr. Haynes she had a director who shared her analytical approach. ''Especially in the relationship with Veda, you can't skim over it by saying, oh, it's complex,'' Ms. Winslet said. ''It was important that we discussed it fully.''
The tug of war between Mildred and her beloved Veda has a special place in the annals of mother-daughter dysfunction. Each hurts and fulfills the other in ways that usually only lovers do, and the arrogant Veda, a skilled social climber, represents all that her mother has repressed and desired.
A coloratura soprano in Cain's book, Veda is demoted to a sleazy lounge act in the Curtiz film and memorably played by Ann Blyth as a monstrous bad seed. Mr. Haynes said he took pains to create a more nuanced Veda (played by Morgan Turner as a child and by Evan Rachel Wood as a young woman). ''I wanted to give some possibility for empathy on both sides,'' Mr. Haynes said. ''Usually that meant making Mildred more culpable.''
''Mildred Pierce'' was a departure from Cain's claustrophobic earlier novels, and some reviewers complained about the odd mix of social realism and melodrama. According to his biographer Roy Hoopes, Cain himself wondered if his original conception of ''a woman who uses men to get her ends'' had been overshadowed by the imperious Veda.
But Mr. Haynes shows in his adaptation that Cain's story is not divided against itself so much as rooted in countervailing forces. The competitive drives and separation anxieties of all maternal melodramas are here bound up in class conflict. ''The daughter's ascension represents Mildred's ultimate goals, but it guarantees that they will have nothing in common,'' Mr. Haynes said. ''She's basically sacrificing her to a different class.''
From the Mattel-manufactured cast of ''Superstar'' to the revolving door of Bob Dylans in the anti-biopic ''I'm Not There,'' Mr. Haynes has delighted in toying with audience identification. ''I'm interested in experiments in narrative that force people to think about how stories are told,'' he said. ''But I was aware in this case of speaking to a different audience, and I respect that.''
Mr. Haynes is not constitutionally a naturalist, though, and it's no surprise to hear him describe the naturalism of the series as itself a kind of artifice, a throwback to what he called the ''dressed-down'' style of the American cinema of the 1970s, when films like ''The Godfather'' and ''Chinatown'' were revising genres and, often, revisiting earlier eras.
In more than one sense Mr. Haynes's series frees ''Mildred Pierce'' from the black-and-white world of noir. Besides creating more complicated versions of Mildred and Veda than Curtiz's crime mystery, with its insistence on a solution, could have allowed, it also replaces the stylized expressionism of film noir with the rangy realism of the so-called New Hollywood. To Mr. Haynes the most resonant of the New Hollywood films, with their natural light, real locations and distanced camerawork, encouraged ''an observational patience'' in the viewer.
Mr. Haynes and his cinematographer Ed Lachman decided to shoot on Super-16 millimeter film, a format that could retain some trace of the grain of '70s movies, even on high-definition digital screens. The visual leitmotif of capturing actors through windows and in reflections evokes the work of Fassbinder, one of Mr. Haynes's favorite filmmakers, and that of the photographer Saul Leiter. Mr. Leiter's intimate, almost abstract street photographs suggested an evocative visual shorthand. ''There was a reduction of information that helped us think about how to convey a whole world,'' Mr. Haynes said.
Those worlds were assembled by the production designer Mark Friedberg and his team on soundstages at Steiner Studios in Brooklyn and with exteriors in the New York area that could pass, with some imported palm trees, for 1930s Los Angeles. Mildred's journey takes her from the tract houses of Glendale to the mansions of Pasadena, and given the story's emphasis on class aspirations, every last detail of home decor was important.
''It was a lot of world to make,'' Mr. Friedberg said. ''It needed to feel like Mildred's going from one realm to another, and they all had to be distinct.''
Mr. Haynes has a reputation as a cerebral, postmodern filmmaker, but what often goes unremarked is that he is, as much as anything else, a social historian. His previous films have dealt with the construction of identity amid the social repressions of the 1950s, the utopian passions and sexual freedoms of the '60s and '70s, and the culture wars and New Age philosophies of the '80s and '90s.
With ''Mildred Pierce'' he looks back at the New Deal '30s through the lens of the '70s, which Mr. Haynes described as the last liberal era in living memory. He started working on ''Mildred Pierce'' as the Obama campaign was gaining momentum. ''I felt we were at the end of a conservative era that we'd lived through since the '70s, that we were on the cusp of something new,'' he said.
Whether or not things turned out that way, ''Mildred Pierce'' is an object lesson in how the past can be used to illuminate the present. In trying to recapture the open, searching quality that defined the American cinema of his youth, Mr. Haynes invites a more engaged mode of viewing. ''I wanted to see if it could work again,'' he said. ''The idea was to use old movies, old genres and old subject matter to trick people into thinking about their world today.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Kate Winslet, left, and Evan Rachel Wood
left, the director Todd Haynes on the set with Ms. Winslet.(AR7)
 Kate Winslet as Mildred Pierce and Evan Rachel Wood (in bed) as her daughter in ''Mildred Pierce,'' directed by Todd Haynes, to be shown in five parts on HBO. Mr. Haynes has stripped away the noir trappings of Michael Curtiz's 1945 version. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SCHWARTZ/HBO)(AR15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); FILM GENRES (89%); FILM SCHOOLS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); WRITERS (77%); MARRIAGE (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (72%); MURDER (68%)

PERSON: KATE WINSLET (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%); GERMANY (50%)

TITLE: Mildred Pierce (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2011



471 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: 200th Birthday for the Map That Made New York

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Henry James condemned it a century ago as a ''primal topographic curse.'' Rem Koolhaas, the architect and urbanist, countered that its two-dimensional form created ''undreamed-of freedom for three-dimensional anarchy.'' More recently, two historians described its map, regardless of its flaws, as ''the single most important document in New York City's development.''
Two hundred years ago on Tuesday, the city's street commissioners certified the no-frills street matrix that heralded New York's transformation into the City of Angles -- the rigid 90-degree grid that spurred unprecedented development, gave birth to vehicular gridlock and defiant jaywalking, and spawned a new breed of entrepreneurs who would exponentially raise the value of Manhattan's real estate.
Today, debate endures about the grid, which mapped out 11 major avenues and 155 crosstown streets along which modern Manhattan would rise. 
The grid was the great leveler. By shifting millions of cubic yards of earth and rock, it carved out modest but equal flat lots (mostly 25 by 100 feet) available for purchase. And if it fostered what de Tocqueville viewed as relentless monotony, its coordinates also enabled drivers and pedestrians to figure out where they stood, physically and metaphorically.
''This is the purpose of New York's geometry,'' wrote Roland Barthes, the 20th-century French philosopher. ''That each individual should be poetically the owner of the capital of the world.''
The grid certified by the city's street commissioners on March 22, 1811, spurred development by establishing seven miles of regular, predictable street access. It also laid the groundwork for nearly 2,000 acres of landfill that would be added to the island over the next two centuries. The commissioners concluded that New York ''is to be composed principally of the habitations of men, and that straight-sided and right-angled houses are the most cheap to build and the most convenient to live in.''
The grid, which incorporated some existing roads, would also prove surprisingly resilient. It accommodated motor vehicles (after sidewalks and stoops were pruned). It allowed planners to superimpose Central Park in the 19th century and superblocks like those of Stuyvesant Town and Lincoln Center in the 20th. In the 21st, the grid was extended west to include apartment houses on Riverside Boulevard.
''The 200-foot-long block is short enough to provide continuous diversity for the pedestrian, and the tradition of framing out the grid by building to the street-wall makes New York streets walkable and vibrant,'' said Amanda M. Burden, the director of city planning.
''The grid does not limit us,'' said Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president. ''It gives us a foundation to adjust to and a way to navigate Manhattan.''
But some have reservations. Tony Hiss, author of ''In Motion: The Experience of Travel,'' said that while the grid contributes orderliness, ''I still think it distances us from our natural surroundings, and it has given us a slightly spurious and diminished mental geometry.''
''We think more in terms of linear blocks than neighborhoods,'' Mr. Hiss continued.
What made the grid plan, formally called the Commissioners' Map and Survey of Manhattan Island, so farsighted was that in 1811 a vast majority of New York City's population lived below what became Houston Street -- tellingly named North Street then. When City Hall was completed that year, its rear facade was covered with cheaper brownstone (in part, legend had it, because of the notion that since most New Yorkers lived south of the building, they would see it only from the front).
Yet while largely exempting the existing village of Greenwich, the visionary commissioners imposed their 2,000-block matrix on the forests, farms, salt marshes, country estates and common lands that extended north for nearly eight miles to what would become 155th Street, and expanded the city's plotted land area by nearly fivefold.
''To some it may be a matter of surprise that the whole island has not been laid out as a city,'' the commissioners -- Gouverneur Morris, Simeon De Witt and John Rutherfurd -- wrote. ''To others it may be a subject of merriment that the commissioners have provided space for a greater population than is collected at any spot on this side of China.''
''To have gone further,'' they noted without irony, ''might have furnished materials to the pernicious Spirit of Speculation.'' They concluded nonetheless that ''it is perhaps no unreasonable conjecture that in half a century'' the 1811 city of some 60,000 would be ''closely built up'' as far as 34th Street and would ''contain 400,000 souls.''
The commissioners were prescient, but they underestimated. In 1860 (38 years before the four other boroughs were consolidated into the city) and decades after the commissioners' surveyor, John Randel Jr., had staked out the intersections with marble monuments and iron rods, an army of laborers had begun to level and even pave the undulating landscape (Manahatta, by one definition, meant Island of Hills). New York was already bursting with more than 800,000 souls.
''What I found absolutely remarkable,'' said Hilary Ballon, an urban studies professor at New York University and curator of a future exhibition on the grid for the Museum of the City of New York, ''was how the city had a commitment to executing this vision, which required a pretty significant transformation in how the city worked -- a greater degree of governmental authority, changes in the taxation system to fund this road building, and a multigenerational commitment to its implementation.''
In contrast to Pierre L'Enfant's grandiose national capital, the street commissioners adopted what Reuben Skye Rose-Redwood, a geographer and expert on the grid, described as ''a physical representation of the Cartesian coordinate system.''
The urban grid goes back beyond Hippodamus of Miletus, the Greek urban planner, who, like the street commissioners, viewed the matrix as a manifestation of ''the rationality of civilized life.'' New York's grid inspired planners elsewhere. But nowhere, wrote Edward K. Spann, an urban historian, ''was the triumph of the grid as decisive as in America's greatest city.''
Concerned about averting fire and disease, the commissioners rejected crooked, narrow streets like those downtown. Yet they provided for relatively few parks, reasoning that Manhattan was flanked by two refreshing rivers. They conceived a 240-acre military parade ground and a public market connected by a canal to deliver produce from the East River.
Without envisioning mass transit, motor vehicles, tenements or skyscrapers (the vertical grid), they mapped more crosstown streets than avenues because they figured most traffic would go between the rivers. Officials later extended Broadway, originally a meandering Indian path, and added Lexington and Madison Avenues.
The grid constituted a high-stakes chessboard for speculators (the value of property in Manhattan more than doubled from 1842 to 1860). Corrupt politicians also profited from inflated construction contracts.
Dr. Rose-Redwood calculated that in 1811, of the 1,865 buildings north of Houston Street, 721 stood on newly mapped streets and had to be either razed or moved. As executed, natural topography was ignored (stranding some houses on bluffs). Driving streets through private property sparked not-in-my-backyard revolts. Owners were compensated, though tax assessments also rose on properties bordering the new streets. Clement Clarke Moore, before making a fortune parceling out his Chelsea property and claiming authorship of ''A Visit From St. Nicholas,'' characterized the commissioners as ''men who would have cut down the seven hills of Rome.''
But Joel Towers, the executive dean of Parsons the New School for Design, suggests that the grid presents an opportunity, now that climate change and rising sea levels elevate topography to the urban agenda.
''What will the city look like over the next 200 years?'' he asked. ''Maybe we can start to think of all those backyards and roofs as sponges, as a permeable landscape. Over the course of 200 years, our infrastructure will be built piece by piece, block by block, community by community. That's very different from 1811, when you could just bulldoze the land.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 24, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about the 200th anniversary of the Manhattan street grid misspelled the surname of one of the street commissioners who certified the plan. He is John Rutherfurd, not Rutherford.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UPTOWN The Dakota Apartments at 72nd Street and Central Park West were still trailblazing around 1890. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS) (A18)
CITY OF ANGLES: The street grid gave developers and, later, tourists order, access and predictability. It has proved surprisingly resilient, accommodating motor vehicles and Central Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MOVING UPTOWN: Construction at 81st Street and Ninth Avenue about 1880. Nearly 16 million cubic yards were dug from hills on the West Side, and about half that amount was added to the East Side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, ROBERT BRACKLOW COLLECTION)
STRANDED: Second Avenue facing north from 42nd Street in 1861. The grid plowed through many lots, leaving some early buildings perched precariously. Owners complained, but property values soared. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VALENTINE'S MANUAL)
MANHATTANHENGE: On two days a year, the sun sets along the east-west axis of Manhattan's street grid. This year's Manhattan solstices will occur on May 30 and July 12, according to the Hayden Planetarium. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) MAPS: A Grid to Tame Manhattan: In 1811, when New York had about 60,000 residents, city fathers ordered an ambitious street plan that would accommodate a growing population. The plan, pictured here, laid a grid on top of the island. The city wasted no time etching that plan into the landscape -- blasting, grading and filling the island's swamps and rocks into a lattice remarkably familiar to today's residents.
OPENING THE STREETS: By 1830, most of the streets up to 21st Street were open to the public. A mill community at Harlem Creek, now filled, also had open streets.
POPULATION DENSITY: By 1880, as immigrants arrived, density in some census tracts exceeded 300,000 per square mile, more than any modern tract.
SHORELINE: Over the past 200 years, Manhattan's shoreline has been built up significantly. (Sources: N.Y.C. Municipal Archives
Manhattan Borough President's office
American Community Survey
The Encyclopedia of New York City: ''The Geology of the City of New York'' by Louis Pope Gratacap, 1909
 N.Y.C. Department of Parks and Recreation.) (MAPS BY FORD FESSENDEN AND MIKA GRONDAHL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CITIES (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); LANDFILLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



472 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Crackdown Was Only Option, Bahrain Sunnis Say

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER; Nadim Audi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MANAMA, Bahrain -- When Bahrain's pro-democracy movement began its demonstrations in Pearl Square last month, Atif Abdulmalik was supportive. An American-educated investment banker and a member of the Sunni Muslim elite, he favored a constitutional monarchy and increasing opportunities and support for the poorer Shiite majority.
But in the past week or two, the nature of the protest shifted -- and so did any hope that demands for change would cross sectarian lines and unite Bahrainis in a cohesive democracy movement. The mainly Shiite demonstrators moved beyond Pearl Square, taking over areas leading to the financial and diplomatic districts of the capital. They closed off streets with makeshift roadblocks and shouted slogans calling for the death of the royal family. 
''Twenty-five percent of Bahrain's G.D.P. comes from banks,'' Mr. Abdulmalik said as he sat in the soft Persian Gulf sunshine. ''I sympathize with many of the demands of the demonstrators. But no country would allow the takeover of its financial district. The economic future of the country was at stake. What happened this week, as sad as it is, is good.''
To many around the world, the events of the past week -- the arrival of 2,000 troops from Saudi Arabia and other neighbors, the declaration of martial law, the forceful clearing out of Pearl Square, the military takeover of the main hospital and then the spiteful tearing down of the Pearl monument itself -- seem like the brutal work of a desperate autocracy.
But for Sunnis, who make up about a third of the country's citizenry but hold the main levers of power, it was the only choice of a country facing a rising tide of chaos that imperiled its livelihood and future.
''How can we have a dialogue when they are threatening us?'' Sheik Khalid bin Ahmed al-Khalifa, the foreign minister and a member of the royal family, asked Friday night at a news conference.
On Sunday, Bahrain was returning to a level of normality, with schools restarting, traffic returning and shops reopening. But many Shiites stayed home from work in protest of recent events, some checkpoints and curfews remained and a sense of political paralysis prevailed. No political dialogue seemed likely soon.
For government supporters here, it was the way protesters blocked the financial district that was especially worrisome. They say they worry mostly about what happened to Lebanon. Beirut was once the financial capital of the Middle East. Then sectarian tensions among Sunnis, Shiites, Christians and Druze, exacerbated by meddling of foreign powers, broke out in the mid-1970s, leading to civil war.
Not only did the country tear out its own heart, the financial business there pulled out and never returned. Today, much of that business is here in Bahrain. Downtown Manama has mushroomed. Bahrainis worry that if Sunni-Shiite sectarianism grows out of control, the financial business will again pick up stakes and move to the waiting competitors, Dubai and Qatar.
Urgent measures were therefore needed, the government's defenders say, and they are grateful they were taken. The demonstrators, they argue, had allowed their cause to be taken over by hard-liners inspired by -- or linked to -- Iran.
No evidence of such links has been presented, and Shiite leaders here deny that they are doing Iran's bidding. Still, the walls of some Shiite mosques in Bahrain bear portraits of Iranian and Lebanese Hezbollah spiritual figures, and ties to Iran run deep among many Shiites in the country.
The takeover of Salmaniya Hospital by the military especially shocked the world. But Hala Mohammed is a Sunni doctor at the hospital and said that in recent weeks it had turned into a mini-Pearl Square with tents and radical posters.
''The doctors who supported the protesters were suddenly issuing decrees on behalf of the entire medical community,'' she said. ''They had politicized a medical institution. The government didn't occupy it, it freed it and I am grateful.''
Rana Abdulaal said that many Sunnis like herself had felt imprisoned in their homes for the past month. She said she expected the Shiite opposition to accept offers to begin a dialogue with the government, but it instead refused to join one. ''If the government had not acted, there would have been a civil war,'' she said, with Sunnis marching on Pearl Square.
What also troubles Mr. Abdulmalik, the banker, is the way in which Bahrain has been grouped recently in discussions abroad with Libya and Yemen. The elite here think of their country as more like the Persian Gulf's version of Singapore -- a liberal, sophisticated place that is culturally far more open than its neighbors.
On Saturday afternoon, Mr. Abdulmalik led two visitors around Muharraq, the original capital of Bahrain, a warren of lovely alleys and 200-year-old homes being gracefully restored as museums and cultural spaces, because his company supports these projects. By chance, the country's culture minister, Sheika Mai bint Mohammed al-Khalifa, was at one of the houses.
Ms. Khalifa wears her shoulder-length hair uncovered and was in trousers and sneakers in the Abdullah Al Zayed House, the home of the first newspaper publisher in the gulf, being restored by her foundation.
''Bahrain has always been open, and we don't want to see it turned into another Iran,'' Ms. Khalifa said. In the nearby cultural center her foundation runs, philosophers, poets and thinkers from around the world have taken part in a weekly lecture program. But the program and others like it have ground to a halt because of the recent troubles; a large Unesco meeting that Bahrain was planning to host has been suddenly moved to Paris.
Much of the push for democratic reform here, as elsewhere in the region, has come from economic hard times. Bahraini supporters of the government note that in this country there is free education, free medical care, heavily subsidized housing as well as no taxes. Budgetary troubles meant home construction was delayed, pushing some of the poor to join the demonstrations.
''The last few years were very difficult because of the financial crisis,'' said Mr. Abdulmalik, the banker. ''But that crisis was not so bad because we were dealing with facts. In the last month, we have been dealing with emotions. I told the demonstrators, 'This country is developing, and you will stifle it.' Something had to be done, and it was.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Security forces guarded Pearl Square on Saturday while the monument there that had served as a rallying point was demolished.
 Atif Abdulmalik, an investment banker, was initially supportive of the protests, but then feared they would harm the economy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA BRUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); RELIGION (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); CURFEW (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (71%) BAHRAIN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



473 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Auto and Electronics Plants Take Steps to Resume Some Production in Japan

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY and DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI; David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Nissan Motor said on Sunday that it planned to restart production this week at five of its six Japanese plants that have been idled since an earthquake and tsunami pummeled the country on March 11. The announcement was among a handful of encouraging signs for Japan's economy, the world's third largest, which has been staggered by the natural disasters and the subsequent crisis the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station.
The Sony Corporation, Japan's largest exporter of consumer electronics, said Sunday that it was preparing in days to reopen a plant that makes rechargeable batteries in Northern Japan. 
Honda and Toyota have said that they are ramping up production at factories across Japan, moves likely to ease the shortages of parts and supplies that have disrupted automakers worldwide.
Although the earthquake and tsunami destroyed hundreds of thousands of homes and killed more than 8,000 people, they did not cause serious damage in most of Japan's auto factories. But rolling blackouts and fuel shortages forced manufacturers to curtail production, disrupting the supply chain so severely that other automakers were compelled to idle plants in places as far away as Spain and Louisiana.
Now, Japanese manufacturers are slowly increasing output. Toyota, which halted manufacturing at all its Japanese plants and subsidiaries after the quake, has already restarted production of replacement parts at seven plants beyond the region hit hardest by the earthquake and tsunami.
Four plants operated by Toyota subsidiaries, two of which build models for Toyota dealers in North America, were closer to the epicenter and more directly affected. They remain idle.
Company officials said that Toyota planned to resume building parts for overseas factories on Monday. A Toyota spokesman in New York, Javier Moreno, said the company was still evaluating its supply chain in Japan but that production of replacement parts was ''going well.''
Nissan said it planned to resume making parts for overseas production and for repairs at the Japanese factories on Tuesday. Vehicle assembly is scheduled to resume Thursday.
The plants build several models for the Infiniti brand, as well as the Nissan Rogue, Murano, 370Z and GT-R.
But company officials warned that a plant that builds the engines for many of its vehicles would remain down indefinitely. Nissan asked employees at the engine plant, in Iwaki, a city near the disabled Fukushima nuclear reactor, to spend their down time volunteering in community restoration efforts.
''With aftershocks still heavily impacting the region and infrastructure reestablishment still continuing, restoration is expected to take longer than the other plants,'' Nissan said in a statement from its headquarters in Yokohama.
Meanwhile, in Detroit, the chief executive of General Motors has told employees worldwide to curtail nonessential spending and travel while the company assesses the disaster's effects on operations. The executive, Daniel F. Akerson, notified workers of the temporary cut by e-mail, a company spokesman, Klaus-Peter Martin, confirmed.
Mr. Martin also said that G.M. would halt production Monday at a plant in Zaragoza, Spain, and cancel two shifts Monday and Tuesday in Eisenach, Germany, because of a shortage of parts made in Japan. The plants build models for G.M.'s Opel brand in Europe.
G.M. previously said it would shut a pickup truck plant in Shreveport, La., for at least a week starting Monday. The company is sending parts that would have gone to that plant elsewhere so it can continue building more popular models.
While the crises have hobbled Japan's economy in the short term, and the cost of rebuilding is expected to soar into the hundreds of billions of dollars, the World Bank said in a report to be released Monday that it expected only a temporary setback for economic growth in East Asia.
The bank said growth would begin to pick up in the second half of this year, as Japan's rebuilding effort got fully under way. Japan's experience ''suggests an accelerated reconstruction effort, and the short term impact on the economies of developing East Asia is likely to be limited,'' it said.
The bank said the report had been completed before the earthquake, but was revised to account for the likely impact of the quake and its aftermath.
''Clearly given Japan's importance in East Asia, the tragic events unfolding will be felt in the region,'' Vikram Nehru, World Bank chief economist for the East Asia and Pacific region, said in the report.
''At this stage, we expect the economic impact of this disaster on the East Asian region to be fairly short-lived,'' Mr. Nehru said. ''In the immediate future the biggest impact will be in terms of trade and finance. We expect growth in Japan will pick up as reconstruction efforts accelerate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: General Motors is idling its Shreveport, La., truck plant. Parts meant for it will go elsewhere to build more popular models. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS COLLIER/THE SHREVEPORT TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (88%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (86%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (78%); POWER FAILURES (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (70%); NEW CAR DEALERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (85%); SONY CORP (72%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (85%); SON (LSE) (72%); SNE (NYSE) (72%); 6758 (TSE) (72%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (72%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: DANIEL F AKERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (70%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



474 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Educated, Unemployed and Frustrated

BYLINE: By MATTHEW C. KLEIN. 
Matthew C. Klein is a research associate at the Council on Foreign Relations.

 BODY:
WE all enjoy speculating about which Arab regime will be toppled next, but maybe we should be looking closer to home. High unemployment? Check. Out-of-touch elites? Check. Frustrated young people? As a 24-year-old American, I can testify that this rich democracy has plenty of those too.
About one-fourth of Egyptian workers under 25 are unemployed, a statistic that is often cited as a reason for the revolution there. In the United States, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported in January an official unemployment rate of 21 percent for workers ages 16 to 24. 
My generation was taught that all we needed to succeed was an education and hard work. Tell that to my friend from high school who studied Chinese and international relations at a top-tier college. He had the misfortune to graduate in the class of 2009, and could find paid work only as a lifeguard and a personal trainer. Unpaid internships at research institutes led to nothing. After more than a year he moved back in with his parents.
Millions of college graduates in rich nations could tell similar stories. In Italy, Portugal and Spain, about one-fourth of college graduates under the age of 25 are unemployed. In the United States, the official unemployment rate for this group is 11.2 percent, but for college graduates 25 and over it is only 4.5 percent.
The true unemployment rate for young graduates is most likely even higher because it fails to account for those who went to graduate school in an attempt to ride out the economic storm or fled the country to teach English overseas. It would be higher still if it accounted for all of those young graduates who have given up looking for full-time work, and are working part time for lack of any alternative.
The cost of youth unemployment is not only financial, but also emotional. Having a job is supposed to be the reward for hours of SAT prep, evenings spent on homework instead of with friends and countless all-nighters writing papers. The millions of young people who cannot get jobs or who take work that does not require a college education are in danger of losing their faith in the future. They are indefinitely postponing the life they wanted and prepared for; all that matters is finding rent money. Even if the job market becomes as robust as it was in 2007 -- something economists say could take more than a decade -- my generation will have lost years of career-building experience.
It was simple to blame Hosni Mubarak for the frustrations of Egypt's young people -- he had been in power longer than they had been alive. Barack Obama is not such an easy target; besides his democratic legitimacy, he is far from the only one responsible for the weakness of the recovery. In the absence of someone specific to blame, the frustration simply builds.
As governments across the developed world balance their budgets, I fear that the young will bear the brunt of the pain: taxes on workers will be raised and spending on education will be cut while mortgage subsidies and entitlements for the elderly are untouchable. At least the Saudis and Kuwaitis are trying to bribe their younger subjects.
The uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa are a warning for the developed world. Even if an Egyptian-style revolution breaking out in a rich democracy is unthinkable, it is easy to recognize the frustration of a generation that lacks opportunity. Indeed, the ''desperate generation'' in Portugal got tens of thousands of people to participate in nationwide protests on March 12. How much longer until the rest of the rich world follows their lead?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); STATISTICS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (56%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (91%); PORTUGAL (78%); SPAIN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



475 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
As Contamination Spreads
Japan appeared to make moderate progress in stabilizing some of the nuclear reactors at the stricken Fukushima Daiichi power plant, but at the same time it disclosed new signs of radioactive contamination in agricultural produce and livestock.PAGE A8
France's Role in Libya Fight 
President Nicolas Sarkozy may be down in the opinion polls, but he has put France boldly in the forefront ofan allied effort to prevent the decimationof the opposition to Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. PAGE A12
NATIONAL
Trial Centers on Deaths In Hospital After Katrina
A jury trial set to open on Mondaywill weigh whether one of America's largest health care corporations should be held accountable for deaths and injuries at a New Orleans hospital marooned by floodwaters after Hurricane Katrina.PAGE A17
Congress's Budget Battle Twice
Congress and the ObamaWhite House have agreed on temporary spending bills that trim spending and keep the government open. Last week's version averted a shutdown,at least until April 8. But the implications of the fiscal disagreements have become more urgent under deteriorating conditions. John Harwood, The Caucus. PAGE A16
New York
FOOD STAMPS AND TAX AID
KEPT POVERTY RATE IN CHECK
Without a flood of food stamps and tax benefits for low-income families, about 250,000 more New Yorkers would have slipped into poverty at the height of the recession, according to calculations to be released by city officials. The federal poverty rate for the city remained about the same from 2008 to 2009, 17.3 percent. By a measure developed by the city, it rose to 19.9 percent. PAGE A19
Business
CRISES PUSH FOREIGN NEWS
TO TOP LEVEL SINCE 9/11
Propelled by revolution in the Middle East and radiation in Japan, television news coverage of foreign events this year is at the highest level since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks 10 years ago, news executives in the United States say. PAGE B1
SONY COPES WITH DISASTERS
Sony is Japan's largest consumer electronics exporter, and established contingency planning for natural disaster. But it quickly became clear that the scope of the crisis was beyond the company's planning, in large part because there was a new catastrophe brewing about 170 miles north of Sony's Tokyo headquarters: the stricken nuclear plant. PAGE B1
CAMPAIGN AGAINST HUNGER
Conagra Foods is taking a new approach to raise the understanding of hunger. The company is starting its largest campaign ever, including a television special, to spur more grass-roots involvement to make sure no child goes hungry. PAGE B2
Obituaries
DREW HILL, 54
He was a Pro Bowl receiver in the Houston Oilers' high-powered run-and-shoo offense of the late 1980s and early '90s. Hill was only 5 feet 9 inches and 170 pounds, but his quickness and skill at reading defensive schemes made him one of pro football's leading receivers over a 14-season career. PAGE A21
Arts
A FINAL FAREWELL
TO A POLYGAMOUS FAMILY
''Big Love'' ended its five-season run on HBO, and if the show had achieved the resonance of the network's other heralded series, the national conversation would surely be dominated now by the events that transpired during the final explosive seconds. Ginia Bellafante, Critic's Notebook. PAGE C1
WITH SONG IN HEART, POMPOMS ON HEAD
''Priscilla Queen of the Desert,'' the new musical that shimmied open Sunday night at the Palace Theater, is a new musical adapted from the 1994 movie about three Australian drag queens on an epic road trip through the outback. Review by Charles Isherwood. PAGE C1
Sports
LEGAL STARS SQUARE OFF
IN BONDS CASE
Nearly four years after his initial indictment, Barry Bonds will be tried on charges that he lied to a federal grand jury in 2003 when he testified that he had never knowingly used steroids. His legacy as baseball's home run king is at stake, as is his freedom. Bonds has seven lawyers -- including several regarded as some of the nation's best -- and legal experts say he has easily spent more than $1 million on his defense. PAGE D1
OP-ED
Paul Krugman PAGE A23
Ross Douthat PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); FOOD CHARITIES (87%); POVERTY RATES (87%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); FAMILY (74%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); CAUCUSES (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HURRICANES (70%); JURY TRIALS (70%); TERRORISM (70%); CITIES (69%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (62%); SPORTS (62%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (55%)

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (55%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (55%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (55%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (55%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); FRANCE (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



476 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: Allies Intensify Air Assault in Libya as Rebels Regroup

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and ELISABETH BUMILLER; David D. Kirkpatrick reported from Tripoli, Libya, and Elisabeth Bumiller from Washington. Reporting was contributed by Kareem Fahim from Benghazi, Libya, Eric Schmitt and Thom Shanker from Washington, and Steven Erlanger from Paris.

 BODY:
TRIPOLI, Libya -- American and European militaries intensified their barrage of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's forces by air and sea on Sunday, as the mission moved beyond taking away his ability to use Libyan airspace, to obliterating his hold on the ground as well, allied officials said.
Rebel forces, battered and routed by loyalist fighters just the day before, began to regroup in the east as allied warplanes destroyed dozens of government armored vehicles near the rebel capital, Benghazi, leaving a field of burned wreckage along the coastal road to the city. By nightfall, the rebels had pressed almost 40 miles back west toward the strategic crossroads city of Ajdabiya, witnesses and rebel forces said. And they seemed to consolidate control of Benghazi despite heavy fighting there against loyalist forces on Saturday.
There was evidence, too, that the allies were striking more targets in and around Tripoli, the capital. More explosions could be seen or heard near the city center, where an international press corps was kept under tight security constraints. Recurring bursts of antiaircraft guns and a prolonged shower of tracers arced over the capital on Sunday night. 
A day after a summit meeting in Paris set the military operation in motion, a vital Arab participant in the agreement expressed unhappiness with the way the strikes were unfolding. The former chairman of the Arab League, Amr Moussa, told Egyptian state media that he was calling for an emergency league meeting to discuss the situation in the Arab world, and particularly Libya.
''What is happening in Libya differs from the aim of imposing a no-fly zone, and what we want is the protection of civilians and not the bombardment of more civilians,'' he said, referring to Libyan government claims that allied bombardment had killed dozens of civilians. But reporters seeking proof have been offered none to account for even part of that number. Around 10 p.m., an explosion thundered from Colonel Qaddafi's personal compound in Tripoli, and a column of smoke rose above it, suggesting that the allied forces had struck either his residence there or the nearby barracks of his personal guards. A group of foreign journalists were bused to the compound early on Monday morning and shown a building partially destroyed by a bomb. But those who attended reported no evidence of casualties.
Asked about the explosion, Vice Adm. William E. Gortney said in a Washington news conference that the United States was not trying to kill the Libyan leader. ''At this particular point I can guarantee that he's not on a targeting list,'' he said, saying that the United States military was working to weaken his military capacity rather than removing him.
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. Mike Mullen, also focused on those goals, talking about how allied forces had grounded Colonel Qaddafi's aircraft and worked to protect civilians -- both objectives stated by the United Nations Security Council in approving the military mission. ''We hit a lot of targets, focused on his command and control, focused on his air defense, and actually attacked some of his forces on the ground in the vicinity of Benghazi,'' Admiral Mullen told Fox News.
But the campaign may be balancing multiple goals. President Obama, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and British and French leaders have also talked of a broader policy objective -- that Colonel Qaddafi must leave power. In his comments on Sunday, Admiral Mullen suggested that objective lay outside the bounds of the military campaign, saying on NBC that Colonel Qaddafi's remaining in power after the United States military accomplished its mission was ''potentially one outcome.''
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, on a flight to Russia, said he was concerned about that possible result. Though he praised the mission's ''successful start,'' he cautioned that a partitioned Libya, with rebels holding the east and Colonel Qaddafi the West, could bring trouble. ''I think all countries probably would like to see Libya remain a unified state,'' Mr. Gates said. ''Having states in the region begin to break up because of internal differences is a formula for real instability in the future.''
Gen. Carter F. Ham, who as the head of the United States Africa Command is overseeing the operation, said in an e-mail on Sunday that ''the initial strikes have had, generally, the effects we sought. Fixed air defense sites, particularly the longer-range systems, appear to no longer be operating.''
He said that ''some ground forces in the vicinity of Bengazi were destroyed. Some appear to be at least static, if not moving back south and west.'' He said there were few signs of fighting in the city itself. The general praised the coordination with Britain, France and other coalition partners, and said he expected additional countries to join the operation ''in the coming days.''
The American and French militaries both said that Qatar would join the military operation, which would be the first Arab military force to explicitly sign on. But there were no details on what role the Qatar forces would take.
The Americans, working with the British, French and others, flew a wider array of missions than the day before, when Navy cruise missile barrages were their main weapons. They deployed B-2 stealth bombers, F-16 and F-15 fighter jets and Harrier attack jets flown by the Marine Corps striking at Libyan ground forces, air defenses and airfields. Navy electronic warplanes, EA-18G Growlers, jammed Libyan radar and communications. British pilots flew many of the bombing missions, and French, British and American planes all conducted ground attacks near Benghazi, American commanders said.
Admiral Gortney said that allied strikes against Colonel Qaddafi's forces had been ''very effective.'' But he warned that coalition forces had not hit Libyan mobile surface-to-air missile batteries and that shoulder-launched missiles, called Man-Portable Air-Defense Systems, or Manpads, also remained. ''There are quite a few of those out there,'' he said.
Near Misurata, the last major Western city held by the rebels, B-2 bombers destroyed aircraft shelters at an airfield, the admiral said. And a rebel spokesman within the besieged city, giving his name as Muhammad, said allied airstrikes had destroyed a military convoy coming to reinforce the troops encircling the city. But he said that Saturday night's strikes had done little to stop the Qaddafi forces from shelling the city and its port, blowing up two power stations. A rebel who said he was a doctor said seven had died and the city was without water or power.
Still, he remained confident that the new help could help turn the momentum toward his fighters. ''If the international community takes care of the supply lines,'' he said, ''I assurre you that we can take care of whatever is inside of Misurata.''
''Tripoli will rise up,'' he predicted. ''If they see his power bases crumbling I am sure they will rise up. We want the international community to go all the way to bomb this bloody dictator into submission.''
Earlier Sunday, Colonel Qaddafi delivered a fresh and defiant tirade against the allied military action, pledging retaliation and saying his forces would fight a long war to victory.
He was speaking in a telephone call to state television, which, apparently for security reasons, did not disclose his whereabouts. The Libyan leader has not been seen in public since the United States and European countries began their strikes. ''We will fight you if you continue your attacks on us,'' Mr. Qaddafi said. ''Those who are on the land will win the battle,'' he declared, warning without explanation that ''oil will not be left to the United States, France and Britain.''
Libyan officials and state television have said that dozens of Libyan civilians were killed in the air attacks. But an Indonesian newscaster, Andini Effendi, reported Sunday that she was able to visit two Tripoli hospitals after the airstrikes early on Sunday and found no influx of casualties, only empty ambulances. State television did not show any scenes of destruction, and Libyan officials declined to show any to visiting journalists either.
Instead, they promised Sunday to bring foreign journalists to a funeral for civilians killed in the attacks. But the funeral turned out to be more of a pro-Qaddafi political rally, and the true number of dead remained a mystery.
On the way to the funeral a bus full of journalists was parked waiting for about 25 minutes near a waterfront cemetery, until the arrival of several truckloads of hundreds of Qaddafi supporters waving green flags and wearing green headscarves. Then, when journalists entered the cemetery amid gunfire in the air and pro-Qaddafi chants, they found three freshly covered graves and 24 empty cinderblock holes.
One of the recent burials was said to have died of causes unrelated to the attacks. Another was said to belong to a 3-month-old baby girl, Siham Atabeeb, who was said to have been killed when a bomb hit her home. But neither of her parents nor any siblings were there, and people who said they were more distant relatives told conflicting stories about whether her mother was also wounded and whether she had any siblings.
People around the other fresh grave also said they were relatives, but people gave conflicting descriptions of the deceased -- he was 25 or 29; he was killed in his home, driving by a military base, or walking in a neighborhood near the Qaddafi compound; he was a taxi driver, unemployed, or in some other profession.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 23, 2011

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about the joint American-European military attacks on Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's forces in Libya referred incorrectly to Amr Moussa, a prominent Egyptian statesman-politician whose support for the international agreement that laid the groundwork for the attacks was considered crucial. Mr. Moussa is the current top official of the Arab League, not the former top official. Also because of an editing error, the article misstated his official title. It is secretary general, not chairman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A coalition airstrike on the road between Benghazi and Ajdabiya, Libya, blew up vehicles belonging to government forces. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORAN TOMASEVIC/REUTERS) (A1)
 On Sunday, a Libyan rebel emptied the pockets of a young member of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's forces after French warplanes had struck about 20 miles west of Benghazi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK BAZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A13) GRAPHICS: A Second Day of Strikes by Coalition Forces (Source: Department of Defense, news reports) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); JOURNALISM (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); WRITERS (62%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



477 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: AT&T Makes Deal To Buy T-Mobile For $39 Billion

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN, MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and JENNA WORTHAM; David Kocieniewski contributed reporting.

 BODY:
12:16 a.m. Updated AT&T announced on Sunday that it had agreed to buy T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom for $39 billion, in a deal that would create the largest carrier in the nation and promised to reshape the industry.
The transaction - one of the largest since the onset of the financial crisis - is expected to start a fierce battle in Washington as regulators scrutinize the impact of the deal on competition and consumers. The deal would leave just three major cellular companies in the country: AT&T, Verizon and the much smaller Sprint Nextel.
Some critics denounced the merger within hours of its announcement, saying it would most likely lead to higher prices. T-Mobile had offered some of the lowest rates in the country, keeping pressure on competitors. While AT&T is expected to honor current contracts, T-Mobile customers may have to pay higher rates once those contracts expire.
Still, AT&T pointed on Sunday to a recent report from the federal Government Accountability Office that said cellular subscription costs fell 50 percent from 1999 and 2009, a period in which the industry has consolidated. 
''Consumers have borne the brunt of the increasingly concentrated market for mobile phone service,'' Senator Herb Kohl, the Wisconsin Democrat who heads the subcommittee on antitrust, competition policy and consumers rights, said in a statement. ''The explosion of cellphone usage - especially smartphones - makes competition in this market more important than ever as a check on prices, consumer choice and service.''
AT&T customers, though, could benefit in one notable area: service. Both AT&T and T-Mobile operate on the same technology, known as GSM, so the combination should provide better coverage. That has been a sore point for AT&T, which has been ridiculed over dropped calls and slow data services, especially on Apple's iPhone.
''The carriers' network technology fits nicely together so AT&T could redeploy some of T-Mobile's spectrum in short order, helping relieve some of the pressures on its network,'' said Craig Moffett, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein.
The acquisition would give AT&T additional leverage against its main rival, Verizon. The newly combined company - bringing together AT&T's 95.5 million wireless subscribers with T-Mobile's 33.7 million customers - would account for roughly 42 percent of all wireless subscribers in the United States. Verizon has around 31 percent, said Charles Golvin, a telecom analyst at Forrester Research. T-Mobile customers would have the option to buy an iPhone, helping AT&T combat the migration of the popular device to Verizon.
The deal would also provide significant cost savings, roughly $3 billion a year for the new company. Those savings, however, could have a huge effect on both the local and national economy, from real estate to media. The combined company is expected to close hundreds of retail outlets in areas where they overlap, as well as eliminate overlapping back office, technical and call center staff. It may also slash advertising spending. Last year, AT&T and T-Mobile spent $2.7 billion combined on advertising, according to Kantar Media.
''From AT&T's perspective, this is a huge win,'' said Chetan Sharma, an independent wireless analyst. ''It's about being No. 1 and having economy of scale.''
Scale will be critical as AT&T continues its aggressive rollout of the next generation wireless network, known as 4G. The carrier has been slower than rivals to deploy the 4G technology, LTE, than competitors. T-Mobile does not have a 4G technology in place.
Meanwhile, Verizon has already started to sell LTE-enabled devices. At the Consumer Electronics Show in January, Verizon announced at least a dozen new smartphones and tablet computers that will be compatible with the technology.
Deutsche Telekom had been weighing options for T-Mobile for more than a year. It had considered an initial public offering for the company, but shelved the plans. More recently, Deutsche Telekom had held talks about selling the unit to Sprint.
The discussions with AT&T - which started in earnest back in December of 2010 - heated up in recent weeks, amid renewed speculation about a Sprint and T-Mobile tie-up, according to people involved in the transaction.
To keep word of the deal from leaking, the AT&T team devised a complicated list of code names, known as ''Project Auto.'' AT&T was called ''Tesla''; Deutsche Telekom was ''Daimler'' and T-Mobile was ''Mercury.'' When asked why T-Mobile was named Mercury - not exactly known for high-performance vehicles - Randall Stephenson, the chief executive of AT&T, chuckled: ''We needed an 'M.' Nothing more.''
Under the terms of the deal, AT&T will pay $25 billion in cash and the rest in stock. Deutsche Telekom will gain an 8 percent stake in AT&T and a seat on the telecom giant's board.
At $39 billion, AT&T would be paying a significant premium to most analysts' estimates for T-Mobile. Bank of America Merrill Lynch valued the subsidiary in December at about $23.2 billion, while a team from JPMorgan Cazenove valued it at about $25.5 billion.
The deal is expected to be a boon for Wall Street with more than half a dozen firms collecting hundreds of millions of dollars in fees.
The deal requires approval from both the Justice Department and the Federal Communications Commission. It is unclear how regulators will react, but the companies clearly know the deal faces serious regulatory hurdles. Deutsche Telekom was so worried that the transaction would not be approved that it pushed AT&T to agree to a big breakup fee and spectrum as a form of insurance, according to people involved in the deal. The breakup fee in the deal is $3 billion, nearly 8 percent of the deal's deal value. Typically, such fees are around 5 percent of the value.
Unlike the merger of Comcast and NBC Universal, which consolidated a transmission company and a content provider, the proposed AT&T and T-Mobile deal is a ''horizontal merger'' that would combine two companies that had been direct competitors.
As part of their assessment, antitrust lawyers must determine whether the deal might undermine efforts to encourage broadband service competition between wireless and landline providers. AT&T and Verizon both control a major segment of the landline market, so by allowing them to dominate wireless services as well, the merger could effectively hurt competition for broadband delivery options.
Mr. Stephenson of AT&T expects the deal to be completed. ''When you get to the facts this is a deal that gets approved,'' he said, adding that ''on the local level, you have a choice of five or more providers.'' In some cities, T-Mobile does not rank among the top carriers. For example, Metro PCS has more customers than T-Mobile in Miami, San Francisco and Detroit.
Still, some critics were not convinced.
''AT&T is already a giant in the wireless marketplace, where customers routinely complain about hidden charges and other anticonsumer practices,'' said Parul P. Desai, policy counsel for Consumers Union. ''From a consumer's perspective, it's difficult to come up with any justification or benefits from letting AT&T swallow up one of its few major competitors.''
David Kocieniewski contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Acquiring T-Mobile would be a coup for AT&T, which has struggled to expand its network to meet demand for smartphones. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A3) CHART: Taking the Top Spot . . . . . . With a Big Deal: If AT&T buys T-Mobile USA, the combined company would have the most cellular subscribers. The deal would be one of the largest since the financial crisis of 2008. (Sources: The companies
 Thomson Reuters) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); SMARTPHONES (89%); GLOBAL SYSTEM FOR MOBILE COMMUNICATION (78%); MERGERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (76%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (67%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (61%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (91%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (90%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (71%); APPLE INC (53%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); DTE (FRA) (91%); DTE (BIT) (91%); S (NYSE) (71%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (53%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (91%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (90%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (53%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (53%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: HERB KOHL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



478 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: A Badge of Honor For a Regulator

BYLINE: By ROB COX and CHRISTOPHER SWANN

 BODY:
Sheila C. Bair may unwittingly have discovered a simple litmus test for bank regulator effectiveness. As chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, she faced catcalls last week from a mob of community bankers. She was taken aback by the booing. But in fact, watchdogs should bask in such disdain if it means they are doing their jobs.
While a decent working relationship between regulators and the entities they oversee is helpful, harmony isn't necessarily a good thing. It can, for example, be a sign of regulatory capture. That's when a supervisor winds up in thrall to the industry he or she is meant to view critically. 
That is arguably what happened before the financial crisis with the Office of Thrift Supervision, the savings institution regulator mercifully abolished by the Dodd-Frank Act. The agency tellingly called the firms it oversaw ''customers'' and failed to spot trouble brewing at some of the biggest financial crisis casualties, including Countrywide, Washington Mutual, IndyMac and the American International Group.
Regulatory capture isn't just a financial phenomenon, of course. Officials at the Minerals Management Service, the agency within the Department of the Interior that was meant to ensure the safety of deep-sea drilling, took industry intimacy to extremes. A 2008 investigation reported that some of its people had engaged in illicit sex with oil industry employees. Needless to say, the M.M.S. did a poor job overseeing BP's Gulf of Mexico rigs.
So the guffaws and snorts Ms. Bair elicited from small bank chiefs at Wednesday's American Bankers Association conference may represent something of a badge of honor for her. The odd part was that the F.D.I.C. boss seemed surprised that the banking association's members didn't appreciate Dodd-Frank's toughened rules. She even argued she'd been something of a friend to community banks.
That may be true, at least relative to America's giant banks. Either way, Ms. Bair, who addresses the annual meeting of the Independent Community Bankers Association in San Diego on Tuesday, needn't worry. Her job is to enforce rules that minimize government losses from bank failures, provide a competitive banking market and claw back ill-gotten gains. If bankers don't like her for that, so be it.
Sobriety in Oil
Heads are spinning on oil trading desks. Markets are now weighing two competing tail risks: sliding demand from an injured Japan, versus no-fly zones in Libya and Saudi troops in Bahrain. But in the absence of another unexpected disruption, the relatively abundant flows of oil should eventually drive prices lower.
Uncertainty over developments in Japan complicates the oil price calculation. As the world's third-largest importer -- just over four million barrels a day -- it's big enough to move the needle on world crude. Initially the nation's appetite will climb as it switches on oil-fired electric generators to compensate for nuclear failures, as happened after the 1995 Kobe quake. If this is followed by a modest growth slowdown, there could then be a fairly trivial reduction in oil consumption. Yet if Japan's troubles worsen, and the economy freezes, the nation's thirst for oil could dry up fast.
At the same time it's rational for traders to brace for Middle East turmoil. The intervention of Saudi Arabia in Bahrain raises the risk of supply disruptions that would send the oil price rising fast. The situation in Libya is more complicated. Oil supplies have already largely been disrupted. If United Nations intervention brings a quick end to the Qaddafi regime, oil prices could even fall. But there's also a risk that Qaddafi's forces sabotage infrastructure, taking capacity out of the market for the long term.
Still, extreme outcomes remain unlikely. It is also worth recalling that nuclear energy and oil supply different types of energy: electricity and transportation fuel are not simple substitutes. And for those lacking a crystal ball, a reminder of the present oil supply and demand outlook is reassuring. For a start, energetic pumping by Saudi Arabia has more than filled the gap left by Libya. Indeed, the global surplus is running at 900,000 barrels a day, against a shortfall of 1.6 million at the start of 2008, according to Oil Market Intelligence. Ample inventories and plentiful OPEC spare capacity should also help soothe rattled nerves.
Traders would be foolhardy to ignore mounting tail risks. But absent another calamity, the comfortable balance of supply and demand should bring prices back to more sober levels.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sheila Bair of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation faced catcalls at a recent meeting with community bankers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); ENERGY MARKETS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (92%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (55%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (54%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (55%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (92%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%); NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (54%); SIC8611 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (54%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); BAHRAIN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



479 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Food Stamps and Tax Aid Kept Poverty Rate in Check

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Without a flood of food stamps and tax benefits for low-income families, about 250,000 more New Yorkers would have slipped into poverty at the height of the recession, according to calculations to be released Monday by city officials.
As it was, while the federal poverty rate for the city remained about the same from 2008 to 2009, 17.3 percent, by a measure developed by the city it rose to 19.9 percent. The city takes into account factors the federal standard does not -- higher local costs of living and expenses for health care, commuting and day care, or the value of benefits like food stamps, housing allowances and tax credits that can supplement cash income. 
''To a large degree, economic stimulus programs and policy initiatives aimed at bolstering family income succeeded in preventing a rise in poverty in New York City,'' according to the report by the mayor's Center for Economic Opportunity.
''Not every antipoverty program meets its goals and deserves to be protected,'' the report by Dr. Mark Levitan, the center's director of poverty research, says, ''but calls for across-the-board cutbacks to programs that help low-income families cannot be justified by the assertion that when it comes to poverty, 'nothing works.' ''
The center concluded that the poverty rate would have been three percentage points higher without federal tax programs passed in 2009 for low-income families and an aggressive city program to enroll New Yorkers who were not receiving public assistance but were eligible for food stamps, coupled with higher food stamp benefits.
The food stamp caseload grew by 13.2 percent, or more than 100,000 cases, from 2008 to 2009 (and by nearly 29 percent among two-parent families). With more recipients and higher benefits, the value of food stamps received by city residents ballooned by nearly 39 percent from 2008 to 2009, to $1.9 billion.
''This is an instance when I agree wholeheartedly with the mayor's office,'' said Joel Berg, executive director of the 'New York City Coalition Against Hunger. ''The added equivalent of income to buy food has been a lifesaver.''
Dr. Levitan credited a combination of factors, including a federal waiver of limits on assets of a food stamps applicant, and the city's own efforts ''to bring in more people who are not the traditional welfare population, but are more the working poor.''
A deeper look at the poverty rates showed that different groups fared worse than others.
From 2008 to 2009, the poverty rate soared from 31 percent to 35 percent among single parents and also rose, from 19.9 percent to 21.7 percent, among working-age adults with only a high school degree.
The poverty rate for children and the elderly was nearly the same -- just below 24 percent.
The rate varied from 13.5 percent among non-Hispanic whites to nearly 25 percent among both Hispanic and Asian New Yorkers; both groups have higher proportions of immigrants who might have been ineligible for some programs that require citizenship or longer residency in the state. Dr. Levitan explained that Asians often have ''cultural issues about being reluctant to get some kind of assistance.'' The poverty rate for blacks was 21.1 percent.
Given that the recession was shorter and less severe in the city than in the country as a whole, the center found that by its measure the poverty rate declined in 2008 to 19.6 percent from 20.7 percent in 2007, and then stood at 19.9 percent in 2009, a statistically insignificant increase.
In 2009, the official federal poverty threshold for a family consisting of two adults and two children was $21,756. By the center's measure, for the same family living in New York the threshold was $29,477.
A 20 percent increase in the cost of rent and utilities from 2005 to 2008 drove home the center's conclusion that public housing, rent vouchers and other subsidies and rent regulations had the largest impact on the poverty rate. Without those benefits, the center calculated, the poverty rate would have been six percentage points higher in 2009.
Similarly, unreimbursed medical expenses added 3.1 percentage points to the poverty rate, and twice that among the elderly.
Titled ''Policy Affects Poverty,'' the report is the third by the center, which was created by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to develop a more modern means to measure poverty than the federal government's official criteria, which date from a half-century ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (93%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); POVERTY RATES (91%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); PARENTS (89%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MAYORS (74%); FOOD CHARITIES (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); TAX LAW (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SINGLE PARENTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



480 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.06 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.13 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.04 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
MONDAY
Florida Board of Education, $174.6 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Florida, $110 million of transportation general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Williamson County, Tex., 76.9, $110 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
TUESDAY
Canyons, Utah, School District, $68 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Central Bucks, Pa., School District, $71.4 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
New York, $809 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Massachusetts, $360 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
New York Port Authority, $225 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Clifton, Tex., Higher Education Finance Corporation, $103 million of Baylor University revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
George Washington University, Wash., $100 million of debt securities. Barclays Capital.
Georgia Environmental Loan Acquisition Corporation, $202.8 million of local government loan securitization bonds. Morgan Keegan.
Massachusetts Development Finance Agency, $195 million of revenue bonds. Barclays capital.
Massachusetts, $78.5 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank.
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, N.Y., $130 million of dedicated tax fund refinancing bonds. Jefferies.
Minnesota Housing Finance Agency, $62.5 million of homeownership finance bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Montgomery County, Ohio, $100 million of hospital revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
Nassau, N.Y., Health Care Corporation, $55 million of revenue anticipation notes. Ramirez.
New Hampshire Health and Education Facilities Authority, $88.3 million of fixed-rate revenue bonds. Piper Jaffray.
New York Mortgage Agency, $115.4 million of mortgage revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
New York Municipal Water Finance Authority, $400 million of water and sewer system general resolution revenue bonds. M. R. Beal.
Oklahoma Water Resources Board, $142 million of revolving fund revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Oregon Department of Administrative Services, $184.5 million of lottery revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission, $50.1 million of turnpike revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Puerto Rico Industrial, Tourist, Educational, Medical and Environmental Control Facilities Financing Authority, $103 million of hospital revenue and refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Puerto Rico, $85 million of public improvement refinancing bonds. Barclays Capital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); SECURITIZATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); SCHOOL BOARDS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (74%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (74%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); HEALTH CARE (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); TAX LAW (70%); LOTTERIES (69%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (68%); HOSPITALS (68%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (64%); WATER QUALITY (50%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (74%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (53%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CO (51%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ACQUISITION CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BAYLOR UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (74%); JPM (LSE) (74%); 8634 (TSE) (74%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); PJC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (74%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



481 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DRILLING DOWN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Cellphone Reception Is Getting Worse

BYLINE: By ALEX MINDLIN

 BODY:
The quality of wireless phone calls, which improved steadily from 2003 to 2009, has hit a plateau, according to J.D. Power and Associates, the consumer ratings firm. One reason is the increasing number of cellphone calls placed or answered indoors, as people use their cellphones to replace or supplement landlines. Indoor calls tend to be fuzzier than outdoor calls, because the signal must penetrate walls and windows to reach the tower. 
Regardless of where the calls were made, J.D. Power said the quality on all handsets -- both smartphones and traditional cellphones -- seemed to have worsened over the last six months, with smartphones eliciting more complaints than traditional handsets. The firm said that the city with the worst cellphone reception was Washington, where 18 out of every 100 calls was problematic -- three times the rate of problems in Pittsburgh and Cincinnati, which had the best call quality.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 56: Percentage of wireless calls made indoors in 2011
 40: Percentage in 2003 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (95%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); SMARTPHONES (88%)

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



482 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Crises in Japan Ripple Across Global Economy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL; Motoko Rich, Liz Alderman and David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In the wake of Japan's cascading disasters, signs of economic loss can be found in many corners of the globe, from Sendai, on the battered Japanese coast, to Paris to Marion, Ark.
Container ships sit in the Pacific or at docks in Japan, wary of unloading tons of pork and steak because of that nation's fractured electric grid. Any break in the ''cold chain'' of refrigeration can spoil meat.
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the luxury goods maker based in Paris, shut more than 50 of its stores in Tokyo and northern Japan. And Volvo, the Swedish carmaker, was working with a 10-day supply left of Japanese-built navigation and climate control systems.
''It's hour-by-hour work to get a grip on the situation,'' said Per-Ake Froberg, chief spokesman for Volvo, as it girds for a production halt. 
The uncertain economic picture has mirrored the churning developments in Japan as it tries to recover from the devastating earthquake and tsunami that struck it 10 days ago. On Sunday, even as workers made some progress in stabilizing the situation at the crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant, the government said there were new signs of radioactive contamination in some agricultural produce and livestock.
Uncertainty hangs like a cloud over the future of the global and American economy. Only weeks ago, many economists foresaw a quickening of the recovery. Now tsunamis, radioactive plumes, Middle East revolutions, a new round of the European debt crisis and a still weakened United States economy could derail a tenuous bounceback in the United States, Europe and Japan.
Some global ills, like the spike in oil and food prices, can be quantified. But a clearer picture depends on indicators yet to come, like the March unemployment numbers and trade numbers.
''The problem is not Japan alone -- it's that Japan reinforces all the negative repercussions and our own weak recovery,'' said Stephen S. Roach, nonexecutive chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia and a professor at Yale. ''It's difficult to know the tipping point for the global economy, but there are difficult headwinds now.''
Only a few weeks ago, economic forecasters suggested first-quarter growth in the United States would exceed 4 percent, and similar estimates edged toward 5 percent for global growth. Those estimates now seem in danger of being outdated.
Morgan Stanley's tracking estimate for the United States' growth in the first quarter has slipped in the last month to 2.9 percent from 4.5 percent, and that was before the troubles in Japan. Goldman Sachs in a report Friday suggested that global uncertainty might shave a half point off American gross domestic product for 2011, which its economists view as a flesh wound rather than a dire blow.
But other economists point to the uncertainty created by Reactors No. 1, 2, 3, and 4 at the stricken power station in Japan and say it adds to a sense of global foreboding.
In Libya, American missiles are flying and the oil wells stand silent. Saudi troops have marched into Bahrain, across the Persian Gulf from Iran. In Europe, finance ministers warn that hundreds of banks still carry billions of dollars in bad loans.
A recent survey of prominent global economists by The International Economy magazine found that a majority view it as likely that some combination of Greece, Ireland and Portugal will default on debt and force bond investors to take heavy losses. Oil prices have risen nearly 11 percent this year. Japan already is the largest importer of liquefied natural gas, and as it searches for energy to replace a fractured nuclear grid, analysts expect these prices to rise as well.
Finally, there is the United States, an economic colossus burdened by a foreclosure crisis and the worst long-term unemployment situation in nearly a century. If Japanese companies and investors retrench, selling some Treasuries and investing fewer yen overseas, the pain here could grow.
Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist with The Economic Outlook Group, was until recently quite the economic bull. No more.
''The uprisings, the Persian Gulf, Japan: It's very likely that the global economic impact will be larger than most people currently imagine,'' Mr. Baumohl said. ''Electricity and gasoline prices will stay high and consumers are nervous. Guess what, that's not an atmosphere conducive to corporations wanting to hire workers.''
There are some more optimistic forecasts. A report by the World Bank to be released Monday predicts that growth in Japan and its East Asian neighbors would pick up in the second half of this year. The country's past experience, the report said ''suggests an accelerated reconstruction effort'' that will limit the short-term impact.
Indeed, some disruptions, even in Japan, could prove of short duration. Nissan said on Sunday it would reopen five of six plants in Japan this week, and Toyota and Honda are also in various stages of resuming production. Analysts expect Japan to cobble together a workable energy grid in the next few weeks. That will allow dockworkers to unload those pallets of pork and steak, not to mention bags of corn and soybean.
Japan's appetite for American meat is considerable. It consumes 30 percent of American pork exports. ''American hog prices took a real fall here this week,'' said David Miller, research director for the Iowa Farm Bureau Federation. ''But supermarket shelves are pretty empty in Japan; we could see a surge in demand soon.''
The global economy remains an adaptive animal. But the speed and efficiency of this adaptation is easily overstated. Japanese electronics, auto adhesives, and silicon-production facility require highly skilled labor and cannot take root overnight in another southeast Asian nation.
Nor is the speed of the global economy, and its intricate interlacing, necessarily a comfort. General Motors last week announced that it would suspend product at its 923-employee factory in Shreveport, La., which manufactures Chevrolet Colorado and GMC Canyon models, because it has already run short of Japanese made parts.
The human face of this disaster presents its own challenge. Many European and American companies in Tokyo dealt last week with a double emergency: They tried to cobble together supply chains even as they evacuated native-born workers to southern Japan, and repatriated foreign workers to their homelands.
Volvo, the Swedish automaker, is the most reliant of the European car companies on Japanese parts -- seven of its suppliers are based in the region ravaged by the earthquake and tsunami, including one on the cusp of the radiation zone. Volvo managers are trying to determine how many parts already were loaded on ships.
''We are preparing ourselves for a shortage,'' Mr. Froberg added. ''If we can't build any cars, we can't sell any cars.''
Travel now half way around the world, to Marion, Ark., a city of 8,900 just west of the Mississippi River. As officials in Japan try to stave off nuclear catastrophe, the fate of a 10-inch round gear might seem inconsequential. But the gear, manufactured in Japan and shipped to the Hino Motors Manufacturing plant in Marion, symbolizes the multitude of disruptions affecting supply chains.
The plant employs 335 workers, who assemble rear axles for the Tundra pick-up truck as well as rear suspension parts for the Tacoma pick-up and Sequoia S.U.V. The factory imports about 20 percent of its parts from Japan. Even its suppliers in the United States purchase parts from smaller suppliers based in Japan. Some of those are in Sendai, the northern Japan city that was badly battered.
Last Wednesday, workers of forklifts zipped down the aisles of the 361,000-square-foot factory, ferrying parts to the assembly lines. Stacks of bright blue plastic crates stood on pallets labeled ''Made in Japan.'' Each crate held a ten-inch round gear and steel pinion that form an essential part of the Tundra rear axles.
''We are monitoring everyday which suppliers actually have a problem,'' said Shinichi Sato, treasurer and secretary of Hino's United States operations.
The company typically gets a shipment of gears from Japan every other day. For now, shipments continue to arrive, because many crates are stacked up in warehouses in Long Beach, Calif., where the components are unloaded from Japan.
No one knows how long the boxes will keep coming. In Japan, the Hino plant is undergoing three-hour rolling blackouts. Its suppliers draw power from the now-disabled nuclear plants. And limited train service means many employees cannot get to work.
Managers in Marion talk about searching elsewhere for parts. But that's not a long-term solution.
''Some parts are possible to get elsewhere, but our parts are very important parts,'' noted Mr. Sato, who takes a quiet pride in the quality of the Japanese parts. ''So it is not easy to ask other suppliers to produce them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Marion, Ark., a worker at the Hino Motors plant. The factory's supplies from Japan are in danger of running low. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LANCE MURPHEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 The Volvo factory in Gothenburg, Sweden. Volvo has a 10-day supply of Japanese-built navigation and climate control systems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB STRONG/REUTERS) (B5) GRAPHICS: Supply Line Disruptions: Damage to factories, ports and transportation networks in Japan as well as the ensuing nuclear crisis are having far-reaching effects on a variety of industries. (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); POWER PLANTS (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); FOOD PRICES (72%); PORK (72%); LUXURY GOODS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); EARTHQUAKES (67%); EURO CRISIS (64%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (93%); MORGAN STANLEY (81%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (93%); LVMH (BIT) (93%); MS (NYSE) (81%); GS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (93%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); SWEDEN (92%); FRANCE (79%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



483 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: From a Food Giant, a Broad Effort to Feed Hungry Children

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
CONAGRA FOODS, whose social cause is ending child hunger, is taking a new approach to raise the issue's visibility. The company is starting its largest campaign ever, including a television special, to spur more grass-roots involvement to make sure no child goes hungry.
The Omaha-based ConAgra financed a 30-minute program, hosted by Al Roker of the ''Today'' show on NBC, to tell the stories of American families who, each day, face the question of whether they will have enough to eat. One 15-year-old boy says, ''I eat less so my sisters can have another meal.'' 
''Child hunger is not a problem, it's a crisis,'' Mr. Roker said in an interview, referring to the 17.2 million children the Agriculture Department estimates are at risk of lacking food. In the special, Mr. Roker, along with an NBC correspondent, Natalie Morales, highlights the effects of hunger on children's ability to learn and complete their education.
--
To amplify its campaign, called ''Child Hunger Ends Here,'' ConAgra also is incorporating social media, including bloggers, digital placement and paid advertising to spread information about the increasing prevalence of child hunger and provide consumers with practical suggestions on how to help their communities.
ConAgra is partnering with Feeding America, a group that supplies 200 food banks. The company has contributed 250 million pounds of food to Feeding America, and donates an average of one million meals a month. ConAgra is donating one meal -- up to 2.5 million meals -- for each eight-digit package code, on specially marked ConAgra brands, that is entered on the campaign Web site, childhungerendshere.com, through August.
The participating brands include Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Healthy Choice, Fresh Mixers, Kid Cuisine, Marie Callender's and Peter Pan.
''The designation on packages is to alert consumers to the issue,'' said Andre Hawaux, president of consumer foods, a division of ConAgra. The company declined to disclose the overall cost of the campaign, which runs from March through the end of May, but said it would spend 40 percent more than last year's campaign.
Mr. Hawaux said that the effort was ''significantly different this year. We dipped our toe in the water last year, and the response was so supportive, we are now increasing opportunities for people to get involved.'' Part of ending child hunger, he said, is overcoming the ''stigma that has been attached to the issue over a long time,'' which is why the company chose a longer special over shorter commercials.
The 30-minute show, Mr. Roker said, ''allows the situation to sink it. The problem doesn't just zip by in the evening news.''
Vicki Escarra, chief executive of Feeding America, said the number of hungry children was growing because of the weak economy.
''There were about nine million children a year ago, and it has grown to at least 14 million, and an increasing number are from middle-class families,'' she said.
While customers will buy products with a portion of the purchase price designated for a cause, Mr. Hawaux said, ''they don't expect to pay more for an item, and they won't accept shoddy products.''
Even so, corporate-cause marketing, linking a company to a social cause, has been questioned lately. According to a study issued last November, many consumers say that brands support social causes only for publicity and marketing purposes, not because they truly care about the issue.
Brands like Pepsi, Nike and Tide have risen above that bar, the study found. Consumers named these companies, as well as Newman's Own and Coca-Cola, as corporations that place as much importance on supporting a social cause as they place on profit.
Winning over consumers requires ''360-degree authenticity, longstanding involvement and adding purpose to a brand,'' said Carol Cone, the managing director for brand and corporate citizenship at Edelman, a public relations agency, which undertook the study.
''It is not about slapping a ribbon on a product any more,'' said Ms. Cone, who worked on previous ConAgra child hunger initiatives.
ConAgra's involvement in ending child hunger dates back almost two decades. The company and its foundation have given $35 million since 1993, including a recent $10 million pledge from the foundation.
''We're trying to balance between social good and the company,'' Mr. Hawaux said. ''There is an expectation now that companies do good. But can you overdo it? We are committed, but we are a for-profit enterprise and have business goals we need to meet.''
--
The child hunger campaign, which was created in-house, is encouraging contributions to Feeding America through a mobile campaign. Texting ''FEEDKIDS'' to 50555 sends a $10 donation directly to the organization. Each $10 donation helps provide 70 meals to children.
The child hunger television special, which premiered on Saturday on NBC stations in 11 markets, including Chicago, Dallas, Miami and New York, will also be seen in about 200 more cities. Throughout the campaign, consumers can use Twitter, #ChildHungerEndsHere, to comment, ask questions or share stories or photographs.
Also, some 20 bloggers, mostly mothers recruited by ConAgra in various communities nationwide, will use Twitter and other social media like Facebook to share local stories and update their activities. And the company is adding a service day to the campaign. Its 25,000 employees can select a day in April to volunteer to work against child hunger -- which, ConAgra says, ''is as near as next door, or down the street.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 25, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Advertising column on Monday, about ConAgra's efforts to focus attention on child hunger, misstated the age of a boy featured in a program financed by the company and hosted by Al Roker of the ''Today'' show on NBC. The boy, who says ''I eat less so my sisters can have another meal,'' is 15, not 8.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The television special ''Child Hunger Ends Here'' was financed by ConAgra Foods, which is donating meals to feed children in conjunction with its brands, like Marie Callender's and Banquet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (98%)

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (98%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (98%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (98%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (98%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (74%) NEBRASKA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



484 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include existing home sales for February (Monday); new home sales for February (Wednesday); durable goods orders for February and initial jobless claims (Thursday); and gross domestic product for the fourth quarter and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for March (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting earnings will include Tiffany (Monday); Adobe Systems, Carnival, Discover Financial Services, Dollar General and Walgreen (Tuesday); General Mills (Wednesday); and Best Buy, ConAgra Foods, Darden Restaurants, Oracle and Talbots (Thursday).
IN THE U.S. On Monday, Washington Mutual will seek permission to advance its Chapter 11 creditor repayment plan. On Wednesday, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, will speak in San Diego at the national convention of the Independent Community Bankers of America.
IN EUROPE On Monday, European Union finance ministers will meet in Brussels to refine details of their response to the debt crisis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (87%); CORPORATE DEBT (87%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (87%); EUROPEAN UNION (85%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%)

COMPANY: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (72%); DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (71%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (69%); GENERAL MILLS INC (57%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (57%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (57%); DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (57%); CONAGRA FOODS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: ADBE (NASDAQ) (72%); ADB (FRA) (72%); DRI (NYSE) (71%); GIS (NYSE) (57%); DG (NYSE) (57%); DFS (NYSE) (57%); CAG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (71%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (71%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (57%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (57%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (57%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (57%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (57%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (57%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (57%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (51%) MICHIGAN, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); BELGIUM (70%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



485 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Wash., completed a review for its media account, with spending estimated at $1 billion, by deciding to add another large media agency to its roster. Universal McCann, which had handled the majority share of the account, keeps the duties for media planning and buying outside North America. Tasks like global strategy and media planning, along with planning and buying for the United States and Canada, were shifted to the Starcom MediaVest Group, part of the Publicis Groupe. Universal McCann is part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. 
Henkel Consumer Goods, Scottsdale, Ariz., part of Henkel, chose Red Tettemer & Partners, Philadelphia, to create campaigns for the Dial for Men line of personal-care products. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had been handled by Energy BBDO, which is the Chicago office of BBDO North America, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. Energy BBDO continues to create campaigns for brands like Dial and Purex.
People
Michael Powell will join the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, Washington, as president and chief executive, effective on April 25. He succeeds Kyle McSlarrow, who said late last year that he would step down; Mr. McSlarrow recently joined the Comcast Corporation in a new post, as president of Comcast/NBCUniversal Washington. Mr. Powell had been a senior adviser at Providence Equity Partners and was chairman of the Federal Communications Commission from 2001 to 2005.
Mark Gray, president of the Katz Radio Group, a unit of the Katz Media Group, New York, is taking on additional responsibilities in a reorganization. Katz Marketing Solutions and Katz Group Sales will now report to Mr. Gray. The changes come after the death of Stu Olds, president and chief executive of the Katz Media Group, which is part of Clear Channel Communications.
Miscellany
Advertising spending in newspapers last year totaled $25.8 billion, the Newspaper Association of America reported, down 6.3 percent from 2009. The total was the lowest since $25 billion in 1985. (Adjusted for inflation, The Associated Press reported, $25 billion spent 25 years ago would be about $49 billion now.) The $25.8 billion was composed of $22.8 billion in print ads, down 8.2 percent from 2009, and $3 billion in online ads, up 10.9 percent from 2009.
Pepsi-Cola, sold by PepsiCo, lost its spot as the No. 2 soft drink in the United States to Diet Coke, sold by the Coca-Cola Company, according to sales rankings for 2010 compiled by the trade publication Beverage Digest. Pepsi-Cola fell to third place in the rankings; the Coca-Cola brand remained in first place. It was the first time that soft drinks sold by the Coca-Cola Company finished first and second in the rankings.
Lewis Lazare, the advertising reporter and columnist for The Chicago Sun-Times since 2000, was among four employees who were laid off last week. Mr. Lazare also recently covered television, radio and media news.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (89%); SOFT DRINKS (87%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (86%); RANKINGS (84%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); PRINT ADVERTISING (68%); WRITERS (67%); LAYOFFS (64%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (64%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); NEWS BRIEFS (60%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (93%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); COMCAST CORP (83%); COCA-COLA CO (81%); BBDO NORTH AMERICA (56%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); KATZ MEDIA GROUP INC (55%); PROVIDENCE EQUITY PARTNERS INC (54%); KATZ RADIO GROUP (54%); NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (53%); PEPSICO INC (52%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (93%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (84%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (83%); CCV (NYSE) (83%); KO (NYSE) (81%); PEP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (81%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (55%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



486 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Airstrikes In Libya; Questions Back Home

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting from Rio de Janeiro.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's decision to authorize military strikes against Libya exposed him to another set of political crosscurrents from right and left and further complicated his plan to keep his agenda focused on the domestic economy.
As the air assault continued for a second day in Libya, Mr. Obama sought to project an air of normalcy and play down the role of the United States. He continued his visit to South America without altering his schedule, and barely mentioned, in a televised speech from Brazil, that allied forces were engaged in another military intervention in a Muslim world. 
But some Republicans suggested that Mr. Obama had waited too long to protect the rebels against Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, had been too reluctant to employ American power and had not clearly explained the objectives of the action. Their comments maintained a pattern of attacking Mr. Obama as a weak leader at home and abroad.
''I don't know what finally got the president to act, but I'm very worried that we're taking the back seat rather than a leadership role,'' Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said on ''Fox News Sunday.''
The action against Colonel Qaddafi's forces drew support from many Democrats, but also concern. A coalition of liberal Democrats voiced objections, arguing that the president overstepped his authority by not seeking Congressional approval before authorizing the airstrikes.
The airstrikes against the Libyan government crystallized the complexities and risks of addressing the multifaceted uprisings in the Arab world and could leave the administration stretched thin as its heads toward a budget showdown with Republicans in Congress and a decision by summer about how quickly to reduce the American military presence in Afghanistan. Even for a president whose term has been filled with unforeseen events, the commencement of a military action that held the risk of becoming a third war at a time of upheaval in the Middle East created a new dynamic whose consequences were especially hard to predict.
Mr. Obama had intended for the third year of his presidency to be devoted to showing that he had learned the lessons of the midterm election, was able to rise above partisanship and focus on solutions to unemployment and the nation's long-term economic problems. For the most part, he has stuck doggedly to his message about preparing the nation for the challenges of the future, often choosing to stay out of day-to-day political battles and legislative maneuvering on Capitol Hill as he lays the groundwork for his re-election campaign and seeks to regain the support of independent voters and moderates.
But with the developments in Libya, a man who reached the White House on the strength of a forceful antiwar sentiment four years ago now has three major military conflicts under his command, with polls showing a limited appetite for increased American intervention.
The White House brushed aside criticism on Sunday, particularly assertions from leading Republicans that Mr. Obama was too slow taking action in Libya. The president made only a passing reference to Libya near the end of a 20-minute address in Rio de Janeiro, where he hailed the democratic uprisings taking place across the Middle East.
''The future of the Arab world will be determined by its people,'' Mr. Obama said. ''No one can say for certain how this change will end, but I do know that change is not something that we should fear.''
Mr. Obama, who inherited the Iraq and Afghanistan wars when he took office, has spoken repeatedly during the last two years about demanding a multilateral approach to conflicts. The decision to join in a military assault against Colonel Qaddafi seemed sure to prompt further debate about whether there is a consistent Obama doctrine for defining national interest and the need for the use of force, could strain relations with liberals who are already uneasy about the president's escalation of the war in Afghanistan and, should it not go well or continue for weeks or months, divert attention from his domestic policy and political initiatives.
The president's national security adviser, Thomas Donilon, told reporters on Sunday that Libya was different from Bahrain and other countries where uprisings have taken place in the Middle East, particularly because the Arab League asked for intervention in Libya. He declined to speculate how long the military action there would last, but added, ''This is a targeted mission.''
The split-screen optics of Mr. Obama -- appearing in Brazil, even as military action intensified in Libya and the prospect of a government shutdown in Washington remained a possibility -- brought to life one of his selling points in the 2008 presidential race. When Senator John McCain suspended his campaign to focus on the economy, Mr. Obama said, ''It is going to be part of the president's job to deal with more than one thing at once.''
That axiom has been tested multiple times during the first two years of his presidency.
''The effort is to find a balance between the foreign policy crisis of the moment and the long-term domestic challenges,'' Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director, said in an interview. ''The challenge is to not let events you can't control overwhelm the presidency.''
The prospective 2012 Republican presidential contenders, who are quick to dispense criticism of Mr. Obama on nearly every topic, were quiet on Sunday about Libya. Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich was the only prospective candidate to issue a statement, criticizing the military action as ''opportunistic amateurism without planning.''
''What is the Obama standard?'' Mr. Gingrich said. ''What is success? What are we prepared to do to achieve that success?''
Mr. Obama has pledged that no American ground troops would be deployed to Libya, but some Republican leaders said he needed to be clearer about the goals of the United States.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Libyan soldiers surveyed damage to a building hit by a missile late Sunday in Tripoli. Allied airstrikes against the country in aid of the rebels began Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEROME DELAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (70%); APPROVALS (64%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (68%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (58%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



487 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: That Budget 'Battle'? Only a Skirmish

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Think of Washington's initial 2011 budget fights as spring training - for a season about to open in a hailstorm.
Twice, Congress and the Obama White House have agreed on temporary spending bills that trim spending and keep the government open. Last week's version averted a shutdown, at least until April 8.
But the pace of play is accelerating, under deteriorating conditions. And practices so far have produced little evidence of confidence-building. 
Republican and Democratic negotiators bought time by cutting the easiest $10 billion, from discredited projects and programs. Closing the remaining $50 billion gap for the last half of this fiscal year will require steeper reductions from a small slice of the budget.
''There needs to be a global solution,'' said Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, one of a half-dozen senators from both parties seeking a long-term fix. Meantime, he said, ''There's growing frustration with this inability to predict how long the government is going to stay open.''
Yet a comprehensive fix means two teams with weak batting averages must hit a series of 100 mile-per-hour fastballs.
For most Republicans, ''global'' means cutting not just discretionary spending, but also the enormous ''entitlements'' of Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican who is chairman of the House Budget Committee, promises his forthcoming 2012 blueprint will take that risky step.
For most Democrats, ''global'' means collecting additional taxes, as well. That step, under discussion by Mr. Warner's ''Gang of Six,'' is also risky.
So is the prospect that the United States might shake investor confidence by defaulting on its obligations. That could happen if Congress fails to raise the federal debt limit once the current ceiling is reached sometime this spring.
Leading Republicans say they will raise it only if Democrats accept more spending reductions. As if the showdown needed any more complications, the military confrontation with Libya throws a curve at the possibility of cuts to the Pentagon budget.
In other words, the game will not get easier after Opening Day.
Thinking Long Term
One reason: some on both sides feel they are losing.
Conservative Republicans think that slow-motion, piecemeal spending cuts have undercut momentum from their election triumph last November. By defying their leaders and opposing last week's stopgap ''continuing resolution,'' 54 House Republicans signaled that unease.
Liberal Democrats consider spending cuts economically counterproductive amid high unemployment, and see further reductions as threats to cherished priorities. The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, sought to draw a line by vowing, ''I will not support tinkering with Social Security.''
Steve Bell, a former Senate Republican budget aide now at the Bipartisan Policy Center, said ''the reason I am pessimistic is that the scar tissue'' from the from stopgap spending battle could affect negotiations over 2012 and beyond.
A longer-term negotiation is what Mr. Warner and five colleagues, from both parties, are conducting. The White House is encouraging their effort from afar as a potential way out if negotiations falter on short-term spending and the debt limit.
The six senators are using recommendations from President Obama's deficit-reduction commission as a template. Neither the president nor Republican leaders has embraced those recommendations, however.
''Nobody ever won the office pool by betting on the success of bipartisanship,'' said Bruce Reed, who assisted the deficit-reduction commission and is now chief of staff to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. ''But the Gang of Six is bringing Republicans and Democrats together, the way Washington should work.''
Possible Compromise
Prospects for compromise appeared to brighten last week when 64 senators, 32 from each party, urged Mr. Obama to seek a ''comprehensive'' solution touching all three hot-buttons - discretionary spending, entitlements, and taxes.
But the path from hortatory letter to long-term deal is steep. Newly empowered House Republicans would have to accept more taxes ; Senate Democrats, fighting to keep their majority in 2012, would have to accept cuts in Medicare and Social Security. Referring to the Gang of Six, Robert Reischauer, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office, said, ''The probability that their fruit will ripen to an eatable state is very low.''
A least-common-denominator outcome might yield targets for limiting spending and deficits as a proportion of the economy. As with the 1980s-era ''Gramm-Rudman'' efforts, it could include enforcement mechanisms to require later policy choices for meeting those targets.
But even that possible fallback has not eased fears of stalemate. The Federal Reserve chairman,Ben S. Bernanke, has warned that tying a debt-limit increase to a long-term budget deal would risk default and fresh financial ''chaos'' as the nation tries to leave the 2008 crisis behind.
''The idea that this time some folks want to start the fire. . .'' Mr. Warner said, his words trailing off. ''You just have to hope cooler heads will prevail.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BASEBALL (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); MEDICARE (72%); MEDICAID (57%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); HARRY REID (58%); MARK WARNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



488 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: President Underscores Similarities With Brazilians, but Sidesteps One

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO and JACKIE CALMES; Roberta Napolis contributed reporting.

 BODY:
RIO de JANEIRO -- From a visit to this city's most infamous slum to a national address amid the gilded elegance of a celebrated theater, President Obama on Sunday sought to underscore the shared histories and futures of the United States and Brazil, reaching out to the people of one of the most racially diverse countries in the Americas.
But Mr. Obama, on the second day of a five-day tour of Latin America, once again seemed to sidestep mentioning his own racial background in appearances here, even as Brazilians who gathered at a plaza trying to catch a glimpse of him said that he had inspired millions in this country because of his African heritage.
''Because he knows the reality of discrimination against blacks, it would be very important for him to pass on the message that it is possible to get somewhere, to be someone, in spite of all the difficulties,'' said Celio Frias, a 46-year-old businessman. ''He is an inspiration.'' 
From their first public comments together on Saturday in the capital, Brasilia, Mr. Obama and Dilma Rousseff, Brazil's first female president, have been a study in contrasts in how they handle the historic nature of their presidencies.
On Saturday, Ms. Rousseff, speaking with some passion, celebrated that the election last October made her the first woman to serve as Brazil's president, and that Mr. Obama is the first African-American president of the United States, lauding what it said about the progress and tolerance of their respective countries.
The people in the United States and in Brazil, Ms. Rousseff said, had ''dared to take at the highest level someone of African descent and a woman, demonstrating that the basis of democracy allows to overcome the largest barriers to build societies that will be more generous and live more in harmony.''
At a luncheon in Brasilia attended by officials and business leaders Ms. Rousseff noted that the United States and Brazil have the largest black populations outside Africa and ''a long track record of the struggle of the minorities.'' Lifting her glass, she said, ''I propose that we should raise a toast to you and to the dream of Martin Luther King, the same dream of Brazilians and Americans, the dream of freedom, the dream of hope.''
Mr. Obama, characteristically, did not overtly address his race, or race in general, in several joint appearances with Ms. Rousseff on Saturday.
He came closest in their meeting with business executives from American and Brazilian corporations, but Mr. Obama spoke indirectly, more in terms of social and economic status than race. He hailed ''the American dream'' as appropriate for both the United States and Latin America, defining it as ''the idea that no matter who you are, or where you come from, or how you start out, you can overcome the greatest obstacles and fulfill the greatest hopes.''
''I'm a testament to that dream,'' he said.
Through his long presidential campaign and since, Mr. Obama has often seemed to address the issue only when forced to by outside events -- like the campaign controversy over racially divisive sermons by his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., or a 2009 furor over the arrest of Henry Louis Gates Jr., a black Harvard professor and friend, as Mr. Gates tried to enter his own home.
Senior advisers to Mr. Obama have in the past suggested that he does not want to be defined in racial terms, but as president for all Americans.
But Brazilians see the issue differently. Brazil was the last country in the Western world to abolish slavery, having done it in 1888. Yet unlike the United States, Brazil never passed Jim Crow segregation laws, and despite the persistence of racism here, many Brazilians take pride in having intermarried more than whites and blacks in the United States.
In the months leading up to his election, Mr. Obama's popularity soared in Brazil with a wide cross-section of Brazilians. Many proclaimed that Mr. Obama's gregarious personality made him seem like a Brazilian masquerading as an American, even as many Americans see him as too cool and detached.
''I was moved by his election, I followed everything, saved magazines, newspapers, everything that came out about him,'' said Maria Helena Reis, 62, a nurse. ''He gives a lot of pride to blacks.''
Opinion polls in the region show that Mr. Obama's election has also improved Latin American countries' opinion of the United States as a whole. Among Brazilians, those with a favorable view increased by 16 percentage points from 57 percent in 2008 to 73 percent in 2009, according to Latinobarometro, a polling company in Santiago, Chile. The increase was higher among blacks and those of mixed race surveyed than among whites.
Mr. Obama's activities on Sunday in Rio -- first, his visit to the sprawling City of God favela, or slum, made famous the world over in the 2002 movie that bears its name, followed by a televised speech to a large audience at a historic theater -- illustrated the White House's efforts to take advantage of the president's unique appeal to the broad and heavily mixed-race Brazilian public.
Mr. Obama drew raucous applause when he began his 20-minute speech by saying, in Portuguese, ''Good afternoon, marvelous city!'' and he said with pride that both countries had cleansed themselves of slavery.
He spoke of the progress that Brazilian officials had made in taming violent slums, saying he was inspired by the ''change in attitudes'' among the residents. ''As one young resident said, 'People have to look at favelas not with pity but as a source of presidents and lawyers and doctors, artists,''' Mr. Obama said. ''People with solutions.''
Some listeners said Mr. Obama did not need to talk specifically about his race to serve as an example.
''He is a source of inspiration simply for being who he is, for having gotten to where he got, facing so many difficulties,'' said Maria de Matos, 82. ''He is black like I am, he understands the difficulties of being black. So he knows that Dilma is also an inspiration for us. She is a woman warrior, she fought hard to get there.''
But many Brazilians were disappointed that Mr. Obama did not make his address here in the Cinelandia plaza, where American officials expected some 20,000 people to watch the speech. Mr. Obama had wanted to address the Brazilian people more directly.
To administration officials' disappointment, the Secret Service's security concerns forced the speech indoors, into the Theatro Municipal, an elegant facility with a capacity of about 2,000. It lacked the feel for an address to the masses: the theater has ornate, gold-trimmed woodwork and red velvet and gold curtains. The men were mostly dressed in suits and the women in dresses.
On Sunday, hundreds stood behind police barriers a few hundred feet from the entrance to the theater, most trying to catch a glimpse of the president.
''I think he wanted to speak to the people; he doesn't seem like a reserved person, he seems almost Brazilian,'' said Zuleide Teixeira, a 65-year-old homemaker who came from three hours away by bus. ''I am upset that I didn't get to see him up close, but his visit is a source of pride for all of us. I hope he is liking our country, because if he is he will for sure come back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, President Obama on his visit to the City of God favela, or slum, made famous the world over in the 2002 movie that bears its name. He followed the appearance with a televised speech. Left, residents lining the president's motorcade route. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); WOMEN (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DILMA ROUSSEFF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%) BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



489 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: President Fires Cabinet As Yemen Protests Grow

BYLINE: By LAURA KASINOF; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
SANA, Yemen -- Yemen's president fired his cabinet on Sunday, while antigovernment demonstrations here in the capital grew in number and momentum two days after government-directed forces opened fire on protesters, killing at least 45 people and wounding more than 200.
''A new cabinet will be formed in the near future,'' a government official said by phone, although he requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly. 
When asked about the timing of the dismissals by President Ali Abdullah Saleh, the official replied: ''This government was supposed to change a while ago; it passed its deadline. This isn't a big surprise.''
While the implications of his announcement were unclear, Mr. Saleh, who has ruled this country for 33 years, has come under increased pressure from the United States and from officials in his own government over his handling of the protests.
In a sign of the Obama administration's growing alarm at the government's response, President Obama's top counterterrorism adviser, John O. Brennan, telephoned Mr. Saleh on Sunday to express the White House's deep concern.
An administration official said Mr. Brennan told Mr. Saleh that ''any Yemeni government, no matter what its composition, must refrain from violence against protesters and support the right of the people of Yemen to engage in peaceful assembly.''
''Any government must also support political change that meets the aspirations of the Yemeni people,'' the official said.
The official, who was not authorized to speak for attribution, praised Mr. Saleh for ordering an investigation into the violence on Friday, and urged him ''to follow through on that effort, and to ensure that anyone who has committed acts of violence is held accountable.''
Still, another, more senior administration official said that Friday's violence ''might have ruined any remaining chance of political dialogue between the Saleh government and the opposition.''
Nine Yemeni ambassadors to European and Arab countries sent a letter to Mr. Saleh on Sunday condemning ''the massacre'' on Friday. That letter followed the resignations by several high-ranking Yemeni officials, including the country's envoy to the United Nations, its ambassador to Lebanon and its human rights minister.
Despite Friday's violence against the protesters, a round-the-clock sit-in that branched out for more than a mile from Sana University's main gate grew even larger Sunday with newly erected tents hung with photographs of the protesters who had been killed.
''The blood of the martyrs watered the tree of freedom,'' said Abdullah Hamid, a protester, when asked about the reason behind the increase in the number of demonstrators. A student protest leader, Salah Sharafi, said, ''They put the seeds of victory in us when they start to kill us.''
Tribes from across Yemen have historically been embroiled in conflicts, but so far few squabbles have taken place among them at the sit-in, their leaders and other protesters said.
''No one expected the tribes would act like this,'' said Mr. Sharafi, the student leader. ''They opened their arms'' without weapons ''to say that they are civilians, but they have determination for change.''
Abel Aziz al-Masbahy, an unemployed man who arrived Sunday from his home in Dhamar Province just south of Sana, stood in front of a poster with the photographs of two teenage boys and a young man from Dhamar who were killed on Friday. The words ''Martyrs of the peaceful youth revolution'' were written above them.
''Saleh lost his legitimacy in'' our region, Mr. Masbahy said.
Two men from Khowlan, an area east of Sana known for kidnapping and a heavily armed population, were killed on Friday. One was shot as he sat in a green tent with a neighbor from Khowlan, Obad Dahamash, and about 20 other men. The bullet hole was still visible in the tent's fabric. ''At first our goal was to kick out Ali Saleh, his family and his gang,'' Mr. Dahamash said. ''Now we want to prosecute them.''
Tribal culture in Yemen has a strong tradition of violent retribution; however, members of the group swore they would remain peaceful.
''This revolution united us as tribes, and we are able to take our rights without using weapons, without using guns,'' Mr. Dahamash said. ''After this massacre killed people from Khowlan, it united us with other tribes, as all the tribes came and sympathized with us. They know that we don't have our guns here and that we don't want civil war.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Forces loyal to President Ali Abdullah Saleh killed at least 45 protesters on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (85%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); TERRORISM (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (99%); LEBANON (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2011



490 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Already Third, Sprint Would Fall Farther Behind

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
With AT&T agreeing to buy T-Mobile USA for $39 billion, the future of Sprint Nextel just got fuzzier.
Over the past several months, Sprint had held its own talks with Deutsche Telekom, the owner of T-Mobile, over a potential deal, as part of an effort to gain sorely needed scale and wireless spectrum, according to people with knowledge of the talks, which were intended to be private. But Telekom's discussions with AT&T moved more quickly this month, and the two reached a preliminary agreement last week, one of these people said.
If the deal were approved, AT&T would again leapfrog Verizon Wireless to become the country's biggest cellphone service provider, and Sprint's strategic options would become more limited. 
Sprint Nextel, the product of an ill-fated merger in 2005, risks being further eclipsed by Verizon and the new AT&T, which together would boast 230.3 million customers in the United States. By contrast, Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kan., has just under 50 million customers.
''That means three out of every four wireless subscriptions belongs to those two companies,'' said Charles S. Golvin, a telecom analyst at Forrester Research. ''That is going to be very challenging for Sprint.''
Under its current chief executive, Dan Hesse, Sprint has managed to lower its customer defection rate, in large part through improving its customer service and its product lineup. But the company has struggled to translate that into a healthier financial picture: Its annual loss widened to about $3.5 billion last year, as revenue declined slightly.
The idea behind combining Sprint and T-Mobile was to add much-needed scale. Both have competed against their larger rivals on price, cutting into profits.
Underpinning the interest for T-Mobile is concern by the major service providers about limited wireless spectrum. As more and more Americans adopt devices like the iPhone, Android smartphones and tablets like the iPad, cellphone carriers are urgently seeking to add more and more capacity to handle customers' data use.
But the talks were weighed down by several major issues, including Sprint's and Deutsche Telekom's differing valuations of T-Mobile. Another, more technical issue revolved around the two companies' use of different cellphone technologies. Sprint currently uses a standard known as CDMA, which is limited mainly to the United States and a handful of other countries. T-Mobile relied on the more common GSM technology.
In the race to set up the next generation of wireless networks, Sprint is also increasingly alone in its reliance on the WiMax standard. AT&T and Verizon have both chosen an alternative called LTE. For its part, T-Mobile lacked the spectrum necessary to develop its own next-generation network, a major driver behind its search for a merger partner.
With AT&T now adding T-Mobile's 33.7 million subscribers into its fold, hardware makers could lose interest in creating products for companies other than the biggest players. Sprint may find it difficult to add cutting-edge new handsets.
A larger AT&T could also strike better prices for the handsets it sells, which would allow it to expand its profit margins or reduce the prices on its products.
Sprint is likely to be forced to compete more aggressively on price to differentiate itself and attract new subscribers.
''This puts them into a much weaker No. 3 position,'' Mr. Golvin said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dan Hesse, the chief executive of Sprint Nextel since 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); SMARTPHONES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MERGERS (88%); CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (78%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); GLOBAL SYSTEM FOR MOBILE COMMUNICATION (78%); APPROVALS (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); TABLET COMPUTERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); PRICE CUTTING (64%)

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (97%); AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (91%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (90%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (85%); SPECTRUM ASA (64%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (97%); T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); DTE (FRA) (85%); DTE (BIT) (85%); SPU (OSL) (64%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (97%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (85%); NAICS541360 GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYING & MAPPING SERVICES (64%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (64%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (64%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (64%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: DANIEL R HESSE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



491 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Citi Plans Reverse Split Of Its Stock

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
8:24 p.m. Updated
Just two years ago Citigroup stood on the brink of collapse. Its stock price was measured in cents, not dollars. But on Monday, the bank announced that it would reinstate a dividend and engineer a reverse split to lift its stock out of the single digits.
While these moves are another step in the long turnaround of Citigroup, once the nation's largest bank, they also underscore how far it still has to go. 
Both actions are largely symbolic. The quarterly dividend will be just a penny a share, down from 54 cents before the financial crisis. And the reverse stock split - giving investors one new share to replace 10 - will raise the trading price from $4.43 to a more respectable $44 a share but not increase the stock's actual value, of course.
Citigroup's market capitalization will remain at $129 billion, compared with a high of more than $275 billion before the financial crisis. And with revenue under pressure from volatile trading and the more stringent financial reform rules, analysts expect to company to continue to muddle along for years.
''It has zero impact on the fundamental health of the company,'' said Michael Mayo, an analyst who has been critical of Citigroup. ''The company has made strides in several areas from three years ago, but that doesn't mean they have achieved recovery.''
In fact, on a day in which the broader stock market rallied on optimism about the crisis in Japan and AT&T's $39 billion bid for T-Mobile, Citigroup shares fell by 7 cents, to $4.43. Analysts say that stocks tend to underperform after the announcement of a reverse split.
Citigroup's comeback efforts still lag behind the progress made by other big banks since the financial crisis. In addition to increasing their dividends, both JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo said last Friday that they planned to buy back stock, a step that will actually lift earnings per share. Citigroup is not expected to be able to buy back stock until 2012 at the earliest, because its financial condition remains weaker.
Indeed, Citigroup's depressed stock price reflects both its continuing challenges as well as the extraordinary efforts the company had to take to survive the financial crisis amid huge losses on subprime mortgage investments. Billions of new shares had to be issued to bolster its financial position and orchestrate a complex transaction that gave the federal government ownership of nearly a third of the company, in exchange for part of Washington's $45 billion bailout package.
For longtime Citi shareholders, the result of all those new shares has meant that the value of their investment now is a fraction of what it was before the crisis. As a result of the 1-for-10 reverse split, planned for May 6, the number of total Citigroup shares will fall to 2.9 billion from 29 billion.
Increasing the share price tenfold, even if it is cosmetic, could lead individual shareholders to take another look at Citigroup's stock, and make it easier to buy for institutional investors that have restrictions on owning shares priced under $5. It could also restore Citigroup's place among the companies that make up indexes like the Dow Jones industrial average, which banished it once the stock started to fall.
At least in terms of appearances, the reverse split would also put the bank into the company of peers like JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and Bank of America, which trade in double digits.
''It's trying to revive the dream,'' said Charles Peabody, a financial services analyst. ''There is a morale issue. There is a perception issue. These are all issues they are trying to address.''
Reinstating the dividend is also largely symbolic. Citi said it planned to pay out an annual dividend of 4 cents a share shortly after it completes the reverse stock split on May 6. It had been paying more than $2.06 during the boom years. In November 2008, regulators forced the bank to eliminate it entirely after receiving a second bailout from the government.
Since those dark days, Vikram S. Pandit, Citigroup's chief executive, has been trying an ambitious revamping plan, intended to streamline the bank's sprawling operations and transform it from a global financial supermarket into a leaner, more focused lender. The Federal Reserve signed off on the dividend and reverse split after completion of its latest round of stress tests last week.
Although Mr. Pandit had been hinting at both measures for months, he held them out as ''important steps'' in his plan to start returning capital to Citi's beleaguered shareholders sometime in 2012. ''Citi is a fundamentally different company than it was three years ago,'' Mr. Pandit said in a statement.
Under pressure from regulators, he replaced over half of the directors on Citi's board, overhauled its risk management system, and reduced its balance sheet. Today, the pile of assets that Citi plans to sell or divest is down to $359 billion, less than half of its peak of $827 billion in early 2008.
Mr. Pandit has had a few successes. In 2010, Citigroup recorded its first full-year profit since the crisis began - and untangled most of its remaining ties with Washington. Last December, the Treasury Department sold its remaining ownership stake in Citigroup, turning taxpayers a $12 billion profit.
But managing the company remains a daunting task made all the more difficult by a number of missteps. Mr. Pandit bungled his first pick of a leader to run Citi's credit card and retail banking operations, a move that slowed its overhaul even after Mr. Pandit turned over the reins last year to Manuel Medina-Mora.
He was urged by Citi's board to install John P. Havens, a trusted lieutenant running Citi's investment bank, as chief operating officer over concerns that overseeing 18 senior executives was too much for one person.
Mr. Pandit also learned earlier this year that Richard D. Parsons, Citi's chairman, was thinking about leaving the board, according to a person briefed on the situation. Mr. Parsons was persuaded to stay on for another year, although it was unclear whether Mr. Pandit would eventually be made chairman, like his fellow chief executives at other Wall Street institutions.
A spokesman for Mr. Parsons said he holds his ''highest regard for what Vikram has accomplished at Citi in overcoming enormous challenges and putting the institution solidly on the right track.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK SPLITS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BAILOUTS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



492 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Africa Command Seen Taking Key Role

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When the United States Africa Command was created four years ago, it was the military's first ''smart power'' command. It has no assigned troops and no headquarters in Africa itself, and one of its two top deputies is a seasoned American diplomat.
Indeed, the command, known as Africom, is intended largely to train and assist the armed forces of 53 African nations and to work with the State Department and other American agencies to strengthen social, political and economic programs in the region, including improving H.I.V. awareness in African militaries and removing land mines. 
Now the young, untested command and its new boss, Gen. Carter F. Ham, find themselves at their headquarters in Stuttgart, Germany, setting aside public diplomacy talks and other civilian-military duties to lead the initial phase of a complex, multinational shooting war with Libya.
''Are they up to the task?'' said Kenneth J. Menkhaus, an Africa specialist at Davidson College in North Carolina. ''So far, I'd say yes. Down the road, though, if it gets messier, it'll test the capacity of Africom. This is certainly a baptism by fire.''
The command has faced difficulties in its first few years. Initial statements about its mission and scope of activity alarmed some African leaders and State Department officials, who feared the Pentagon was trying to militarize diplomacy and development on the continent. These concerns led the command to set up its headquarters in Germany.
Congressional critics have warned that the command is understaffed and poorly resourced for challenges that include countering fighters with an affiliate of Al Qaeda in North Africa, Islamic extremists in Somalia, drug traffickers in West Africa and armed rebels in Congo. Other Congressional officials cast doubt on the command's ability to gauge progress in its programs.
''Africom is generally not measuring long-term effects of activities,'' concluded a report issued last July by the Government Accountability Office, an investigative arm of Congress. ''Without assessing activities, Africom lacks information to evaluate their effectiveness, make informed future planning decisions and allocate resources.''
Military officials say General Ham's arrival three weeks ago to replace Gen. William E. Ward, who retired, will inject a new dynamic into the command and its 1,500-member headquarters staff. More than 1,000 other troops are conducting training, security assistance or other temporary duties in Africa at any given time.
General Ham, 59, a native of Cleveland, is one of the Army's stars, having risen from private to four-star commander in a 38-year career. He has commanded troops in northern Iraq, overseen military operations at the Pentagon's Joint Staff and helped lead reviews into the Defense Department's ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy and the fatal shootings at Fort Hood, Tex.
The son of a Navy PT boat officer in World War II, General Ham enlisted in the Army in 1973 as a paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne Division. After earning his officer commission, he served as an adviser to a Saudi Arabian National Guard brigade, commanded the Army's storied First Infantry Division and, until his current assignment, led all Army forces in Europe, when he worked closely with many of the same European allies now engaged in the Libya operation.
''He's inclusive and a great team builder,'' said Lt. Gen. Mark P. Hertling, who earlier this month succeeded General Ham in the Army's European command. ''He's not only a great soldier who studies his profession, he's the kind of normal guy you can drink a beer with.''
Perhaps General Ham's most wrenching tour was commanding American forces in northern Iraq as the insurgency was strengthening. On Dec. 21, 2004, a suicide bomber killed 22 people, including 18 Americans, in a dining hall at a military base in Mosul. General Ham arrived on the scene shortly after the explosion.
When he returned to Fort Lewis, Wash., a few months later, he sought help for posttraumatic stress, received counseling from a chaplain and later publicly discussed his treatment. ''You need somebody to assure you that it's not abnormal,'' General Ham told USA Today. ''It's not abnormal to have difficulty sleeping. It's not abnormal to be jumpy at loud sounds.''
General Ham's willingness to speak openly about his personal combat stress sent shock waves through a service in which seeking help has often been seen as a sign of weakness.
That plain-spoken attitude has earned plaudits from top Defense Department officials.
''During our 'don't ask, don't tell' review, he was our conscience and our center of gravity,'' said Jeh C. Johnson, the Pentagon's general counsel and co-author with General Ham of the department's report on the effects of allowing openly gay men and women to serve in the military. ''I always made sure never to get out ahead of him.''
For the time being, General Ham will oversee the American side of the Libya operations, briefing President Obama and his top security aides from Stuttgart, as he did on Sunday, and providing broad guidance and direction to the mission's tactical commander, Adm. Samuel J. Locklear III, who is in the Mediterranean aboard a command ship, the Mount Whitney.
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said on Sunday that the United States would turn control of the Libya military operation over to a coalition -- probably led either by the French and British or by NATO -- ''in a matter of days.'' But the American military would continue to fly missions.
General Ham, in an e-mail message on Sunday, said plans for the change in command were already under way. ''It's fairly complex to do that while simultaneously conducting operations,'' he said. ''But we'll figure it out.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LANDMINES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); AL-QAEDA (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); SHOOTINGS (68%); RELIGION (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DAVIDSON COLLEGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (87%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



493 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Separate And Unequal

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
One of the most powerful tools for improving the educational achievement of poor black and Hispanic public school students is, regrettably, seldom even considered. It has become a political no-no.
Educators know that it is very difficult to get consistently good results in schools characterized by high concentrations of poverty. The best teachers tend to avoid such schools. Expectations regarding student achievement are frequently much lower, and there are lower levels of parental involvement. These, of course, are the very schools in which so many black and Hispanic children are enrolled.
Breaking up these toxic concentrations of poverty would seem to be a logical and worthy goal. Long years of evidence show that poor kids of all ethnic backgrounds do better academically when they go to school with their more affluent -- that is, middle class -- peers. But when the poor kids are black or Hispanic, that means racial and ethnic integration in the schools. Despite all the babble about a postracial America, that has been off the table for a long time. 
More than a half-century after the landmark Brown v. Board of Education school desegregation ruling, we are still trying as a country to validate and justify the discredited concept of separate but equal schools -- the very idea supposedly overturned by Brown v. Board when it declared, ''Separate educational facilities are inherently unequal.''
Schools are no longer legally segregated, but because of residential patterns, housing discrimination, economic disparities and long-held custom, they most emphatically are in reality.
''Ninety-five percent of education reform is about trying to make separate schools for rich and poor work, but there is very little evidence that you can have success when you pack all the low-income students into one particular school,'' said Richard Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation who specializes in education issues.
The current obsession with firing teachers, attacking unions and creating ever more charter schools has done very little to improve the academic outcomes of poor black and Latino students. Nothing has brought about gains on the scale that is needed.
If you really want to improve the education of poor children, you have to get them away from learning environments that are smothered by poverty. This is being done in some places, with impressive results. An important study conducted by the Century Foundation in Montgomery County, Md., showed that low-income students who happened to be enrolled in affluent elementary schools did much better than similarly low-income students in higher-poverty schools in the county.
The study, released last October, found that ''over a period of five to seven years, children in public housing who attended the school district's most advantaged schools (as measured by either subsidized lunch status or the district's own criteria) far outperformed in math and reading those children in public housing who attended the district's least-advantaged public schools.''
Studies have shown that it is not the race of the students that is significant, but rather the improved all-around environment of schools with better teachers, fewer classroom disruptions, pupils who are more engaged academically, parents who are more involved, and so on. The poorer students benefit from the more affluent environment. ''It's a much more effective way of closing the achievement gap,'' said Mr. Kahlenberg.
About 80 school districts across the country are taking steps to reduce the concentrations of poverty in their schools. But there is no getting away from the fact that if you try to bring about economic integration, you're also talking about racial and ethnic integration, and that provokes bitter resistance. The election of Barack Obama has not made true integration any more palatable to millions of Americans.
I favor integration for integration's sake. This society should be far more integrated in almost every way than it is now. But to get around the political obstacles to school integration, districts have tried a number of strategies. Some have established specialized, high-achieving magnet schools in high-poverty neighborhoods, which have had some success in attracting middle class students. Some middle-class schools have been willing to accept transfers of low-income students when those transfers are accompanied by additional resources that benefit all of the students in the schools.
It's difficult, but there are ways to sidestep the politics. What I think is a shame is that we have to do all of this humiliating dancing around the perennially uncomfortable issue of race. We pretend that no one's a racist anymore, but it's easier to talk about pornography in polite company than racial integration. Everybody's in favor of helping poor black kids do better in school, but the consensus is that those efforts are best confined to the kids' own poor black neighborhoods.
Separate but equal. The Supreme Court understood in 1954 that it would never work. But our perpetual bad faith on matters of race keeps us trying.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ETHNICITY (88%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); PARENTING (71%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (69%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



494 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: N.F.L.'s Reply Asks Court to Wait for Labor Board Before Ruling on Lockout

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
The N.F.L. responded in court documents Monday to players' attempt to gain an injunction to lift the lockout, claiming that courts are barred from issuing injunctions in labor disputes and that no decision on the injunction should be made before the National Labor Relations Board rules on the N.F.L.'s charge that the union's decertification is a sham. One league official Monday called the decertification ''a fake suicide.''
A hearing is set for April 6 in United States District Court in Minneapolis on the request for the injunction which, if granted, would force the league to reopen for business, although it would probably seek a stay while appealing to the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. 
''The plaintiffs have to go 3-0; we only have to win on one to prevail,'' said another N.F.L. official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the pending litigation. ''What they have to do is run the table, and I think that's relatively difficult, as we lay out in our brief.''
The brief begins by taking aim at the union's decertification, which owners contend is a negotiating tactic employed to allow players access to antitrust law.
''The law is not so easily manipulated,'' the brief reads. ''One party to a collective bargaining relationship cannot, through its own tactical and unilateral conduct, instantaneously oust federal labor law or extinguish another party's labor-law rights.''
Then it lays out the three reasons the league believes an injunction should not be granted. The first relies on the Norris-La Guardia Act, which in 1932 prohibited the court from issuing an injunction from a lockout, as long as the case '' 'involves or grows out of' a labor dispute, a test that is clearly satisfied here,'' the brief says.
It goes on to say that the N.L.R.B. has primary jurisdiction in determining the fate of the union's decertification. The N.L.R.B. is still investigating the N.F.L.'s unfair-labor-practices charge and it could be several more weeks, or even months, before the board's general counsel decides whether it finds enough evidence to issue a complaint, which would then lead to a hearing before an administrative law judge. The brief argues that if the N.L.R.B. finds a violation, it will order the union back to the bargaining table, so the court should stay the antitrust case until the N.L.R.B. has made its decision.
The brief cites statements made by players, including members of the union's executive committee, to try to bolster the owners' argument that the decertification was a tactical decision, not a dissolution of the union.
''The idea of decertification, the tactic and the strategy worked back in 1989,'' the brief cites the union president Kevin Mawae saying in 2010. The brief goes on to quote Mawae calling the step ''that ace in our sleeve'' and saying, ''And at the end of the day, guys understand the strategy, it's been a part of the union strategy since I've been in the league.''
N.F.L. officials also contend that the decertification claim makes it difficult for players and their lawyers to resume collective bargaining negotiations before April 6. Lawyers representing players in the antitrust suit sent a letter to the league Monday saying they would be willing to resume talks toward a settlement of the lawsuit. League officials responded that they would negotiate only with the union.
If the N.F.L. maintains that the decertification is not valid, then it is obliged under labor law to deal only with the union, not with the lawyers for the players, the league said. And as long as the union maintains that it has decertified, its lawyers cannot engage in collective bargaining as agents of the players.
''The problem is if they come back and negotiate with us, that makes them look more like a union and undermines their lawsuit,'' one N.F.L. official said. ''They have to choose: do they want to act like union and get a deal, or act like plaintiffs and have a lawsuit?''
Jeff Pash, the league's lead negotiator, said: ''We don't accept the claim that the union has decertified. We believe it is continuing to function as a labor organization. We believe they intend to negotiate. Let's get over the folderol and get to it.''
Finally, the brief argues that even if the court has jurisdiction, it should not issue an injunction because players ''cannot show a likelihood of success'' because the lockout is protected from antitrust scrutiny by the nonstatutory labor exemption. The brief argues that sufficient time has not passed that a rule permitting antitrust intervention would not interfere with collective bargaining.
''Under plaintiffs' theory, the N.F.L. is subject to antitrust liability if it ceases or refuses to continue football operations, and it is subject to antitrust liability if it does not,'' the brief reads. ''This 'heads I win, tails you lose' approach is not and cannot be the law.''
Player representatives just concluded their annual meeting in Marco Island, Fla., and they responded to the owners' brief saying the league's actions do not match its words.
''They say they want a fair deal,'' said George Atallah, the players' spokesman. ''Instead, they locked out players, and they are now trying to litigate their way to preserving that lockout.''
But even a delay in a ruling on the injunction request would count as a victory for owners, said Gabe Feldman, the director of Tulane University's sports law program, who has analyzed negotiations for the NFL Network.
''From the players' perspective, justice delayed is justice denied,'' Feldman wrote in an e-mail. ''Every day the lockout remains in place, as bonuses remain unpaid and free agents remain unsigned, the players start to feel more economic pressure.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INJUNCTIONS (92%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); JUDGES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



495 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Denies a Move to Bar the Details of a Fed Bailout

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve will publish new details about its emergency lending to banks during the 2008 financial crisis after the Supreme Court on Monday rejected an industry appeal for secrecy. 
The Fed said it would release detailed information soon about its main emergency aid program, the so-called discount window, breaking a policy of confidentiality that dates to its founding in 1913. The Fed was required by Congress to publish similar data about its other lending programs last year.
''The board will fully comply with the court's decisions and is preparing to make the information available,'' David Skidmore, a Fed spokesman, said.
The disclosures could embarrass some of the nation's largest banks, which are eager to focus public attention on their renewed profitability, by returning a spotlight to the extent of their dependence on federal aid during the crisis. It also signaled a victory for Bloomberg News, which first requested the data in 2008.
But the industry and the Fed also won a victory of sorts simply by delaying the release of the information for more than two years, as investors now will be less likely to draw inferences about the current condition of the banks that needed help during the crisis.
Bloomberg News filed a request for the discount window data under the Freedom of Information Act in 2008. When the Fed denied the request, the company filed a lawsuit. After a trial court ruled in favor of Bloomberg in 2009, the Fed appealed. A federal appeals court handed Bloomberg a second victory last March and the Fed conceded the issue, but the verdict was appealed by the Clearing House Association, which represents 10 of the nation's largest banks.
The Supreme Court rejected that appeal Monday in a brief written order.
''The Federal Reserve forgot that it is the central bank for the people of the United States and not a private academy where decisions of great importance may be withheld from public scrutiny,'' Matthew Winkler, editor in chief of Bloomberg News, said in a statement.
The Clearing House Association said it was disappointed, but added that the ruling had no broader significance. The sweeping financial law passed last year stipulated that the Fed must release data on future discount-window loans, but only after a two-year lag -- effectively, the same outcome reached by the legal process.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); APPEALS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); VERDICTS (78%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (83%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



496 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Dow Soars Above 12,000 on AT&T Deal for T-Mobile

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER and BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
Corporate mergers and receding fears over Japan's nuclear crisis helped global markets rise on Monday.
The $39 billion deal by AT&T to acquire T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom helped move indexes higher, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average back above 12,000 for the first time since March 11.
In addition, the Japanese prime minister, Naoto Kan, was quoted in news reports as saying that some progress was being made at restoring power to two reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant. 
''I think it is generally a lack of bad news day,'' said Jason D. Pride, the director of investment strategy at Glenmede, of the rally.
''Finally we are starting to put together a string of days in which we don't look like we are headed to a nuclear meltdown,'' he said.
The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 178.01 points, or 1.5 percent, to 12,036.53.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 19.18 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,298.38, and the Nasdaq composite index was up 48.42 points or 1.83 percent, to 2,692.09.
The price of crude oil has risen since the economic recovery began, and recently after protests in northern Africa and the Middle East. But Mr. Pride and other analysts do not consider the higher prices a significant headwind to economic growth for now.
On Monday, Brent crude futures for May settlement rose as much as $2.29, or 2 percent, to $116.22 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It fell back to $114.60, up 67 cents.
In New York, the price of crude oil rose $1.26, to $102.33 a barrel.
''Oil prices are up with the increased action against Libya,'' said Brian Youngberg, an analyst with Edward Jones. ''At the same time the broader market is benefiting from the appearance that the nuclear issue in Japan is not worsening and on top of that you had some M.& A. activity with the AT&T deal, and any time you see a big action like that it tends to raise the market.''
Among energy companies, Marathon and Schlumberger were up. Marathon Oil rose $2.19, or 4.41 percent, to $51.84, while Schlumberger rose $3.80, or 4.42 percent, to $89.73.
Charles Schwab announced on Monday that it had agreed to buy OptionsXpress Holdings. OptionsXpress, which provides stock and options brokerage services, rose $2.57, or 16.76 percent, to $17.90. Schwab was up 9 cents, to $17.65.
''The drum beat of mergers and acquisitions activity has been loud all year and there are signs that it is not going to decelerate,'' said Lawrence Creatura, the portfolio manager at Federated Investors. ''The other positive is it appears the effort to rein in the Libyan situation is serious,'' he said, which was being ''received positively by the markets today.''
In other news, Citigroup announced a quarterly dividend of a penny a share, starting in the second quarter, and a 1-for-10 reverse stock split. Shares of Citigroup slipped 7 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $4.43.
Tiffany shares were up $2.93, or 5.11 percent, to $60.22, after it posted fourth-quarter earnings of $1.44 a share, above forecasts. It said, however, that it expected sales in Japan to decline and lowered its first-quarter earnings forecast.
On the housing front, the National Association of Realtors said sales of previously owned houses fell 9.6 percent in February from January, to an annual rate of 4.88 million units from an upwardly revised 5.40 million in January. That was 2.8 percent below the 5.02 million pace in February 2010.
The decline signaled that the ''housing market is still clearly years away from staging any meaningful recovery,'' said economists from Capital Economics in a research note.
The stock markets in the Asia-Pacific region shrugged off the higher oil prices on Monday, with most indexes rising. Japan was closed for a national holiday.
Equities markets in Europe were also up. The FTSE 100 in London rose 1.19 percent, while the CAC 40 in France gained 2.47 percent and the DAX index in Germany climbed 2.28 percent.
Spot gold soared on Monday by $8.78, to $1,427.68 an ounce.
The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 16/32, to 102 16/32, and its yield rose to 3.33 percent, up from 3.27 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); MERGERS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); FUTURES (87%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%); STOCK OPTIONS (52%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (93%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (90%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (57%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (54%); OPTIONSXPRESS HOLDINGS INC (51%); MARATHON OIL CORP (51%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (50%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (93%); DTE (FRA) (58%); DTE (BIT) (58%); SCHW (NYSE) (57%); ICE (NYSE) (54%); MRO (NYSE) (51%); FII (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

PERSON: NAOTO KAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (77%); AFRICA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



497 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Prices and Sales of Existing Homes Fell Sharply in February

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Sales of previously owned homes fell sharply in February and prices hit their lowest level in nearly nine years, a real estate trade group said Monday. 
Sales fell 9.6 percent month over month to an annual rate of 4.88 million units, snapping three straight months of gains, according to the report. The percentage decline was the largest since July.
Economists polled by Reuters had expected February sales to fall 4.0 percent to a pace of 5.15 million units from the previously reported 5.36 million unit rate in January. January's pace was revised up slightly to 5.40 million.
''This is a frustrating number,'' said David Carter, chief investment officer at Lenox Advisors in New York.
''The U.S. residential real estate market doesn't seem to want to turn around despite better affordability.'' Financial markets largely ignored the data.
The report, released by the National Association of Realtors, said the median home price fell 5.2 percent in February from a year earlier to $156,100, the lowest since April 2002.
''If the price declines persist, even with the job market recovery, that could hamper recovery in the housing market,'' the association's chief economist, Lawrence Yun, said.
Foreclosures and short sales, which typically occur below market value, accounted for 39 percent of transactions in February, up from 37 percent in the previous month, the trade group said. All-cash purchases made up a record 33 percent of transactions in February.
Sales fell across the board, with multifamily dwellings declining 10 percent and single-family home units dropping 9.6 percent. Compared with February last year, overall sales were down 2.8 percent.
At February's sales pace, the supply of existing homes on the market rose to 8.6 months' worth from 7.5 in January. A supply of six to seven months is generally considered ideal, with longer times indicating a lowering of house prices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); EXISTING HOME SALES (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); FORECLOSURE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EMPLOYMENT (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



498 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Natural Gas Now Viewed As Safer Bet

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD; David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Natural gas may be having its day, as its rival energy sources come under a cloud.
The serious problems at the nuclear power plant in Japan have raised new doubts about the safety of nuclear energy. New exploration has yet to resume in the Gulf of Mexico after last year's blowout of a BPoil well. And coal plants have been under a shadow because of their contribution to global warming.
Meanwhile, natural gas has overcome two of its biggest hurdles -- volatile prices and questionable supplies. In large part because of new discoveries in the United States and abroad that have significantly increased known reserves, natural gas prices have been relatively low in the last two years.
It is far too early to say for sure whether the calamitous events in Japan may roll back the global nuclear revival and lead to a surge in natural gas demand. It is also too early to say whether officials in charge of nuclear policy are just paying lip service to the public's safety concerns in the wake of the unfolding disaster. 
Still, with the global demand for energy expected to grow by double digits in coming decades, analysts are anticipating a new boom in gas consumption. Given the growing concerns about nuclear power and the constraints on carbon emissions, one bank, Societe Generale, called natural gas the fuel of ''no choice.''
''At the end of the day, when you look at the risk-reward equation, natural gas comes out as a winner,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, an economist at the Energy Policy Research Foundation. ''It's a technical knockout.''
Financial markets have already started to price in this new interest in gas. Since the disaster in Japan, uranium prices have dropped by 30 percent, while natural gas prices in Europe and the United States have risen by about 10 percent. Officials from several countries, including China, Germany, Finland and South Africa, said they would review their nuclear strategies.
Utilities are also reconsidering natural gas as a potential source of stable power, a function historically filled by coal and nuclear energy. Utility chiefs have been wary of price fluctuations of natural gas, particularly in the last two decades.
But that may be about to change, according to John Rowe, chairman of Exelon, the biggest nuclear utility in the United States. He argued that building a nuclear power plant would be prohibitively expensive, while new rules limiting carbon emissions by the Environmental Protection Agency would require costly investments to scrub emissions from coal-powered plants. This means that utilities will increasingly switch to natural gas.
''Natural gas is queen,'' Mr. Rowe told a panel at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington this month.
That view was endorsed by a report to be released on Tuesday by the Bipartisan Policy Center and the American Clean Skies Foundation, which predicts that natural gas consumption will increase because of an abundance of new supplies, some of them in the United States, that are likely to keep prices relatively low.
Global natural gas production rose by 44 percent in the two decades from 1990 and 2010, while gas reserves grew by 67 percent. After peaking at $13.58 per thousand cubic feet in 2008, gas prices in the United States averaged $4.38 last year. What is more, natural gas emits about half as much carbon dioxide as coal when it is burned to produce one kilowatt hour of electricity.
The immediate market for natural gas will likely be Japan, which is looking to raise its fuel imports after a fifth of its nuclear power capacity was shut down, including the troubled Fukushima Daiichi plant. And Tokyo Electric Power says that the rolling blackouts in the country will continue at least into next winter.
Japan already imports a third of global liquefied natural gas shipments and its import terminals, mostly in the south, were not damaged by the earthquake. Nuclear power and coal each accounts for a quarter of Japan's power generation, while natural gas accounts for 30 percent, according to analysts with the Raymond James financial company.
''It could be that the Honshu earthquake is the catalyst which fundamentally reshapes our approach to global energy,'' Bernstein Research analysts wrote last week.
Many oil companies have anticipated this shift. At Royal Dutch Shell, natural gas production overtook its oil output in recent years. Exxon Mobil bought XTO Energy last year to raise its presence in the growing domestic shale gas market. It has also developed significant resources in Qatar, which holds the third-largest reserves of natural gas in the world, after Russia and Iran.
Huge new projects dedicated to liquefied natural gas -- in which gas is frozen, compressed in liquid form for easier shipment, then returned to a gas state at import terminals -- have been mushrooming around the world.
In Papua-New Guinea, Exxon is leading a $15 billion project to build and develop an LNG plant to supply Asian customers. Chevron recently began engineering work on the $40 billion Gorgon gas project in Australia, along with Shell and Exxon. Russia, for its part, is planning to develop huge new fields in the Arctic.
Natural gas is not without problems. To unlock methane from hard shale rocks in the United States, energy companies use hydraulic fracturing, a method that has been criticized on the grounds of polluting water sources, including rivers and underground aquifers.
But energy policy must balance out these hazards with the concerns about nuclear power, as well as the still unresolved problem of what to do with spent nuclear fuel that remains radioactive for hundreds of years.
''Nuclear power has suddenly found itself going from being (arguably) part of the solution for future green energy to a now dangerous relic of the cold war era,'' Deutsche Bank said in a report last week.
In the United States, where no new reactor has been built since the Three Mile Island accident in 1979, the attitude toward nuclear power has been ambivalent. Last year, the president asked the Energy Department to provide some financial backing for nuclear operations, including two reactors planned for Georgia.
But in the aftermath of the Japanese disaster, the administration ordered a comprehensive review of safety at nuclear plants.
At the same time, the industry has found it nearly impossible to develop and finance new plants. In December, for example, Exelon dropped its application to build a plant in Victoria County, Tex., in the face of opposition.
Utilities have also faced a challenge in renewing their existing operating licenses. The Pilgrim Nuclear Power Station, in Plymouth, Mass., has been waiting for a new license for five years because of litigation and court delays. State officials in Vermont have been battling to shut down Entergy's Vermont Yankee plant, which began operations in 1972.
There are 104 nuclear reactors in the United States, which contribute 23 percent of the nation's electrical power. Twenty reactors have applications pending with federal regulators to extend the plants' operating lives by as much as two decades, according to Bloomberg News.
''We are likely to do to nuclear licensing what we did to offshore permitting,'' Mr. Goldstein, of the energy policy foundation, said. ''We will delay and stall.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A natural gas cargo ship about to berth in Taichung, Taiwan. Analysts are anticipating a new boom in gas consumption. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAURICE TSAI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (79%); COAL INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (54%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (54%); GLE (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN W ROWE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); TAIWAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); GERMANY (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



499 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2217 words

HEADLINE: Bus Crash in the Bronx Ends A Man's Fight for His Family

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE and JEFFREY E. SINGER; Zhang Jing contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
The authorities were at Wang Jianhua's door in Fujian Province, China, intent on taking his wife away. Her crime: She already had a child and she was pregnant again, in violation of the country's one-child policy.
As Mr. Wang would later recount to his friends, he stepped between the officials and his wife. A scuffle ensued, Mr. Wang's wife escaped, and the officials hauled Mr. Wang, the son of poor rice farmers, to a jail where he was held for several days and severely beaten, his friends said.
The confrontation was apparently a turning point in Mr. Wang's life, which had already been marked by poverty and hardship. Within months, his wife still pregnant, he would set off alone for the United States with the aid of smugglers, taking a chance that a better life awaited him -- and eventually his family.
But on March 12, three years after his arrival in New York City, his aspirations were dashed in a sudden crash of steel and asphalt on Interstate 95 in the Bronx. Mr. Wang, who had been working as a restaurant deliveryman, was one of the 15 passengers who died when their bus overturned and was sliced open by a sign post as they were returning to New York's Chinatown from a casino in Connecticut. 
There were a few threads that tied these victims together. Many were first-generation, working-class immigrants, many were Chinese, and many were seeking some kind of solace and hope, however illusory, in the parallel universe of the Mohegan Sun casino. This is a portrait of one of those victims.
From interviews with Mr. Wang's friends, relatives and co-workers, both in the city and in China, a profile emerged of a man who was guided by a deep devotion to his family and who lived a life of continual struggle, embodying many of the hallmarks of the immigrant experience among the latest Chinese newcomers to New York.
Mr. Wang grew up in Gui'an, a rural village in a mountainous region of Fujian Province; he dropped out of school when he was about 13 to join his relatives in the rice paddies.
''He told jokes, even on the hardest days,'' his older sister, Wang Wenzhen, recalled in a telephone interview from the family's home in Gui'an. ''But he was also an introverted, reserved person; didn't share his true feelings.''
As a young man, Mr. Wang never talked about career plans, his sister said. ''We are in a very backward village,'' she explained. ''All they can think about is making more money. What else can we dare to wish for?''
She added: ''I am sure he had his own dream, but he never talked about it. He knew that's impossible.''
His father died of a stomach ailment when Mr. Wang was 19, tipping the family deeper into poverty. Mr. Wang left home in search of better work to help support the family and, through his 20s and 30s, chased opportunities for work in Fujian Province, mostly manual labor. For several years he drove a taxi, often taking the night shift so he could help with household chores during the day and take his mother, who was chronically ill, to the hospital, Ms. Wang said.
He was a perfectionist. ''Whatever he did,'' Ms. Wang said, ''he wanted to make sure every detail was fine.''
Work and Love Struggles
During those years, he saw many friends and neighbors leave for the United States, often with the help of smugglers. Over the past two decades, hundreds of thousands of young people from villages in Fujian have made the trip; many headed for New York City. But according to Ms. Wang and several of his friends, Mr. Wang never talked about taking the journey himself.
Mr. Wang struggled not only with work but also with love. As his friends successfully found mates, married and started families, Mr. Wang, a thin man with close-set eyes and a crop of thick black hair, met failure. His sister blamed the family's economic straits.
''Nobody wanted to pick him,'' she said. ''Which girl would want to marry into poverty?''
When he was about 30 -- old to be a bachelor by the standards of his village -- he married Lin Yaofang and they had a baby, a girl. When Ms. Lin became pregnant again, in violation of the country's one-child policy, the authorities made her get an abortion, relatives and friends said.
When word of her third pregnancy reached the government, he later told friends, officials went to their house to take Ms. Lin away, leading to Mr. Wang's detention and beating. The account could not be verified with the Chinese authorities.
His decision to try his luck in New York came quietly and suddenly. He did not share his deliberations with many relatives or friends. Only when he had made up his mind did he turn to the rest of the family: he needed their help raising $75,000 to pay smugglers for his passage.
The task was a group undertaking, with all his closest relatives appealing for loans from everyone they knew. Ms. Wang said she herself raised more than half the amount he needed. It took her more than a month. ''You borrow $1,500 from one person, another $3,000 from another person,'' she said. ''One by one.''
Until the mid-1990s, many Chinese were smuggled into the United States in large ships, hundreds at a time. But in the face of crackdowns, smugglers began developing other methods and routes, and in recent years, officials say, most Chinese have been smuggled into the country in small groups or individually, often by way of Latin America or the Caribbean, many across the Mexican border.
Mr. Wang set off in late January 2008, leaving behind his daughter and pregnant wife. There was no going-away party, no ceremony, his sister said. He just said goodbye and was gone. His friends and family said they did not know what route he took -- he had never told them, and they had never asked.
That March, following a path carved by so many Chinese before him, he surfaced in New York's Chinatown and contacted Fujianese acquaintances who were already here. He had an immediate network to plug into. Many Fujianese have settled outside the historic core of Chinatown, west of the Bowery, clustering instead around East Broadway and north of Canal Street on the Lower East Side.
Mr. Wang moved into a tiny apartment on Eldridge Street on the Lower East Side with five other men, including a friend from Fujian. They slept in bunk beds and the place was loud with the constant rumble of traffic from the nearby off-ramp of the Manhattan Bridge.
Mr. Wang bought a bicycle and found a job as a deliveryman at Iron Sushi, a restaurant in the Kips Bay neighborhood of Manhattan. He worked six days a week, his friends said, often in 12-hour shifts. Mr. Wang quickly fell into a grueling routine, his life pared down to its simplest components: work, eat, sleep, work, eat, sleep.
He ate instant oatmeal for breakfast and maybe a slice of pizza for dinner. He splurged on occasion by going to McDonald's. He made about $500 a week, and after paying basic expenses like rent, he sent home most of whatever was left to pay his creditors and support his family, which had grown by one: his wife had given birth to a son. But he also managed to set aside enough to buy an inexpensive laptop to call his family in China at low rates on Internet telephone networks by piggybacking on a neighbor's wireless signal.
The calls were apparently the highlight of his life. He called every day, usually before he went to sleep. When his family managed to get a computer, they were able to make video calls. His mother would hold up her grandson to a webcam and Mr. Wang would light up with pride, a roommate recalled. ''Say, 'Daddy,' '' Mr. Wang would implore his son. ''Say, 'Daddy.' ''
In his spare time, Mr. Wang washed his clothes or lay in bed streaming films online -- he preferred historic war movies, the roommate recalled. Their Saturday workday started an hour later than usual, so on Fridays, he and his roommates often played cards in their apartment -- they preferred a Fujianese card game resembling poker -- and drank red rice wine fermented locally by Fujianese store owners.
Riding to the Casinos
Then Mr. Wang discovered the inexpensive buses that traveled from Chinatown to the region's casinos, and he started taking them on Friday nights.
Mr. Wang's friends insisted that he did not wager, but sold the free food and gambling vouchers that were included with the bus ticket and pocketed his profit, usually about $30.
When asked if he had any other recreational outlets or hobbies, several of his friends laughed as if the question were preposterous. ''When can we play?'' said Mr. Liu, one of his roommates, who asked that his full name not be used because of his illegal immigration status. ''We can work. That's all we do.''
Mr. Wang's friends and co-workers in New York said he was quiet and polite. When he talked, they said, his conversation never wandered far afield from the matters of work and money. It was his single-minded obsession, all in the service of his family and his debts, they said. ''At night he talked about money worries,'' Mr. Liu said, ''but that's what we all talk about.''
At the same time, Mr. Wang was apparently banking much of his hope on an asylum application he had filed in November 2008. Lee Ratner, an immigration lawyer who represented him, said the petition was based on ''problems with the family planning policy in China,'' but offered no further information, citing attorney-client privilege. The policy is commonly used as justification for asylum petitions by Chinese immigrants.
Mr. Wang told his friends that his asylum claim, which was still pending when he died, stemmed from his run-ins with the government over his wife's pregnancies. Dennis Lau, the manager at Iron Sushi, said Mr. Wang had told him that if he was granted asylum, he would invite Mr. Lau to celebrate at a karaoke bar -- ''because he knew I liked karaoke.''
But another friend, Lin Feng, said that Mr. Wang's stoical resolve had started to crack and that he had begun to express regret about emigrating from China. ''The pressure was so much,'' Mr. Lin said.
Late last year, Mr. Wang had a severe setback when he fell off his bicycle during a delivery and shattered his arm. The injury kept him out of work for four months, and he lived on worker's compensation payments of about $200 a month, his friends said.
During this time, he was so broke that he started to borrow the money to send to his family and help cover his debts in China, friends said.
More Frequent Trips
Until his bicycle accident, his visits to the casino had been once a week or less, his friends said. But unable to work a conventional job, he started to ride the bus several times a week, sometimes even taking two round trips a day, selling his free vouchers to other passengers, his friends said.
But this new routine was apparently a source of embarrassment: he never mentioned the casinos to his family, his sister said, and he rarely talked about them to his roommates.
Several months ago, Mr. Wang moved into a cramped two-bedroom apartment in a dingy tenement building on Chrystie Street in the Bowery. He shared one of the rooms with three other men; his share of the rent was $200 a month. Two women rented the second room.
The apartment was cluttered, every corner stuffed with the roommates' belongings: clothing, cooking equipment, suitcases, a spare mattress for short-term residents. Roaches climbed the walls and pigeons were roosting in a makeshift exhaust vent that snaked along the wall. The only decorative touches were colorful Chinese-language characters hanging on the front door and in the kitchen; the characters appealed for good fortune and riches.
Last week, Mr. Wang's belongings were piled on his bunk, mostly clothes and travel bags. Sitting on a makeshift bedside table was his laptop, a bottle of Chinese herbal medicine -- for a toothache, Mr. Liu said -- and an old plastic takeout container in which Mr. Wang kept some of his valuables: loose change, his employee identification card from Iron Sushi and a small address book full of telephone numbers. The container also held a players' club card from Mohegan Sun and several $1 chips from Foxwoods Resort Casino in Connecticut, items that suggested he had gambled at least a bit.
After the bus crash, Mr. Lin called Mr. Wang's family to break the news.
''The family just collapsed overnight,'' Ms. Wang said. ''My head may explode at any minute.'' She said her mother fainted several times a day from crying so much. The family has not yet begun to think about how they will assume the burden of Mr. Wang's debt.
''Creditors don't know what happened yet,'' she said. ''They won't treat us nicely.''
Contacted by telephone, Ms. Lin, Mr. Wang's widow, could barely formulate sentences amid her sobs. ''What can I do?'' she pleaded. ''Everything is a mess. And he just died.''
A group of Mr. Wang's friends and relatives in New York have hired a lawyer to explore litigation in the case. The lawyer said he was also trying to secure a temporary visa for Ms. Lin and her two children to travel to the United States and view Mr. Wang's body one last time before it was buried.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 23, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about the life of a victim of the Bronx bus crash last week misidentified the bridge near where he lived. It is the Manhattan Bridge, not the Williamsburg Bridge.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wang Jianhua, a poor man in Fujian Province, borrowed $75,000 to pay smugglers for a passage to New York after his wife, carrying a second child, at left with Mr. Wang's mother, was confronted by officials because she was violating China's one-child policy. Mr. Wang was killed this month in the crash of a tour bus returning from a casino.
Mr. Wang's valuables: loose change, his employee identification card from Iron Sushi, a small address book, a club card from the Mohegan Sun casino and several $1 chips.(A20)
Wang Jianhua lived in this apartment, at 135 Chrystie Street in the Bowery, with five other people and paid $200 a month in rent.
Mr. Wang, a deliveryman for a sushi restaurant in Kips Bay in Manhattan, kept his bicycle under the stairs to his apartment.
Mr. Wang arrived in New York City three years ago. From left are his friends Yang Shouquan, Lin Changshui and Lin Feng.
Mr. Wang's wife, with their daughter and son. Under Chinese population policy, couples are not supposed to have more than one child. PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Wang was one of 15 passengers killed when a bus returning to Chinatown from Mohegan Sun, a casino in Connecticut, overturned and slammed into a post on Interstate 95 in the Bronx. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID KARP/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); INTERVIEWS (87%); CITY LIFE (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); RICE FARMING (71%)

COMPANY: MOHEGAN TRIBAL GAMING AUTHORITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); FUJIAN, CHINA (90%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



500 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Crackdown Was Only Option, Bahrain Sunnis Say

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER; Nadim Audi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MANAMA, Bahrain -- When Bahrain's pro-democracy movement began its demonstrations in Pearl Square last month, Atif Abdulmalik was supportive. An American-educated investment banker and a member of the Sunni Muslim elite, he favored a constitutional monarchy and increasing opportunities and support for the poorer Shiite majority.
But in the past week or two, the nature of the protest shifted -- and so did any hope that demands for change would cross sectarian lines and unite Bahrainis in a cohesive democracy movement. The mainly Shiite demonstrators moved beyond Pearl Square, taking over areas leading to the financial and diplomatic districts of the capital. They closed off streets with makeshift roadblocks and shouted slogans calling for the death of the royal family. 
''Twenty-five percent of Bahrain's G.D.P. comes from banks,'' Mr. Abdulmalik said as he sat in the soft Persian Gulf sunshine. ''I sympathize with many of the demands of the demonstrators. But no country would allow the takeover of its financial district. The economic future of the country was at stake. What happened this week, as sad as it is, is good.''
To many around the world, the events of the past week -- the arrival of 2,000 troops from Saudi Arabia and other neighbors, the declaration of martial law, the forceful clearing out of Pearl Square, the military takeover of the main hospital and then the spiteful tearing down of the Pearl monument itself -- seem like the brutal work of a desperate autocracy.
But for Sunnis, who make up about a third of the country's citizenry but hold the main levers of power, it was the only choice of a country facing a rising tide of chaos that imperiled its livelihood and future.
''How can we have a dialogue when they are threatening us?'' Sheik Khalid bin Ahmed al-Khalifa, the foreign minister and a member of the royal family, asked Friday night at a news conference.
On Sunday, Bahrain was returning to a level of normality, with schools restarting, traffic returning and shops reopening. Indeed, in an overnight report posted on the official Bahrain News Agency, King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa said that a ''fomented subversive plot,'' brewing for 20 or 30 years, had failed.
But many Shiites stayed home from work in protest of recent events, some checkpoints and curfews remained and a sense of political paralysis prevailed. No political dialogue seemed likely soon.
For government supporters here, it was the way protesters blocked the financial district that was especially worrisome. They say they worry mostly about what happened to Lebanon. Beirut was once the financial capital of the Middle East. Then sectarian tensions among Sunnis, Shiites, Christians and Druze, exacerbated by meddling of foreign powers, broke out in the mid-1970s, leading to civil war.
Not only did the country tear out its own heart, the financial business there pulled out and never returned. Today, much of that business is here in Bahrain. Downtown Manama has mushroomed. Bahrainis worry that if Sunni-Shiite sectarianism grows out of control, the financial business will again pick up stakes and move to the waiting competitors, Dubai and Qatar.
Urgent measures were therefore needed, the government's defenders say, and they are grateful they were taken. The demonstrators, they argue, had allowed their cause to be taken over by hard-liners inspired by -- or linked to -- Iran.
No evidence of such links has been presented, and Shiite leaders here deny that they are doing Iran's bidding. Still, the walls of some Shiite mosques in Bahrain bear portraits of Iranian and Lebanese Hezbollah spiritual figures, and ties to Iran run deep among many Shiites in the country.
The takeover of Salmaniya Hospital by the military especially shocked the world. But Hala Mohammed is a Sunni doctor at the hospital and said that in recent weeks it had turned into a mini-Pearl Square with tents and radical posters.
''The doctors who supported the protesters were suddenly issuing decrees on behalf of the entire medical community,'' she said. ''They had politicized a medical institution. The government didn't occupy it, it freed it and I am grateful.''
Rana Abdulaal said that many Sunnis like herself had felt imprisoned in their homes for the past month. She said she expected the Shiite opposition to accept offers to begin a dialogue with the government, but it instead refused to join one. ''If the government had not acted, there would have been a civil war,'' she said, with Sunnis marching on Pearl Square.
What also troubles Mr. Abdulmalik, the banker, is the way in which Bahrain has been grouped recently in discussions abroad with Libya and Yemen. The elite here think of their country as more like the Persian Gulf's version of Singapore -- a liberal, sophisticated place that is culturally far more open than its neighbors.
On Saturday afternoon, Mr. Abdulmalik led two visitors around Muharraq, the original capital of Bahrain, a warren of lovely alleys and 200-year-old homes being gracefully restored as museums and cultural spaces, because his company supports these projects. By chance, the country's culture minister, Sheika Mai bint Mohammed al-Khalifa, was at one of the houses.
Ms. Khalifa wears her shoulder-length hair uncovered and was in trousers and sneakers in the Abdullah Al Zayed House, the home of the first newspaper publisher in the gulf, being restored by her foundation.
''Bahrain has always been open, and we don't want to see it turned into another Iran,'' Ms. Khalifa said. In the nearby cultural center her foundation runs, philosophers, poets and thinkers from around the world have taken part in a weekly lecture program. But the program and others like it have ground to a halt because of the recent troubles; a large meeting that Bahrain was planning to host has been suddenly moved to Paris.
Much of the push for democratic reform here, as elsewhere in the region, has come from economic hard times. Bahraini supporters of the government note that in this country there is free education, free medical care, heavily subsidized housing as well as no taxes. Budgetary troubles meant home construction was delayed, pushing some of the poor to join the demonstrations.
''The last few years were very difficult because of the financial crisis,'' said Mr. Abdulmalik, the banker. ''But that crisis was not so bad because we were dealing with facts. In the last month, we have been dealing with emotions. I told the demonstrators, 'This country is developing, and you will stifle it.' Something had to be done, and it was.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); RELIGION (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); CURFEW (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (71%) BAHRAIN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



501 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Treasury to Test Mortgage Market

BYLINE: By AGNES T. CRANE and UNA GALANI

 BODY:
The Treasury Department will lead the way testing the $4.6 trillion mortgage-backed securities market. Timothy F. Geithner, who leads the agency, said on Monday that the Treasury would begin offloading $142 billion of mortgage bonds accumulated during the financial crisis. The gradual sale of the portfolio could hint at how markets will react when the Federal Reserve comes to sell its nearly $1 trillion pile.
Anyone who had forgotten about the Treasury's holdings can be forgiven. Mortgage bonds guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-run housing giants, were acquired in the name of market stability after their regulator seized the agencies in 2008. But the overall crisis at the time and the Fed's huge intervention are the events that have stuck in most memories. 
The combined purchases had the desired effect. Risk premiums on mortgage bonds have tumbled to less than half of what they were before the Treasury and the Fed started buying in 2008, according to Credit Suisse. That has kept mortgages cheap but has not done much for the broader housing market. Data released on Monday showed the prices of existing homes declining and the rate of sales falling nearly 10 percent in February from January. This makes the government's withdrawal a delicate matter.
It is helpful, therefore, that the Treasury is feeling out the market. Its holdings are only about 3 percent of all agency mortgage-backed securities outstanding, so it is unlikely the sales, set for $10 billion a month starting immediately, will cause mortgage rates to climb significantly. And if they do, it's better to know before the Fed fires up its own exit strategy, which is likely to move more than just the bond market.
The Fed doesn't seem to be in any hurry to start selling. The elimination of maturing mortgage bonds has helped trim its portfolio, and the central bank is still buying government debt. If the sales by the Treasury go off with little or no market impact, though, it should encourage the Fed to consider selling its bonds sooner rather than later.
Worse to Bad
Deutsche Telekom's American nightmare could turn out to be just a fleeting fear. Despite getting its portfolio into shape by negotiating a juicy sale of T-Mobile USA to AT&T for $39 billion in cash and stock, its decade-long investment in the market far from home will still be remembered with a wince.
The 13 percent rise in Deutsche Telekom's share price on news of the agreement reflects that, in absolute terms, investors like the deal. The exit multiple of 7.1 times historic earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization is about a one-third premium to peer group trading multiples. And even if regulators quash the deal, Deutsche Telekom will walk away with a breakup fee worth $3 billion, or 7.7 percent of the deal's value, and still more of AT&T's valuable wireless spectrum and roaming access.
But the transaction doesn't vindicate Deutsche Telekom's original entry to America by agreeing to buy Voicestream, T-Mobile USA's forerunner, in 2000. The German operator paid $51 billion in cash and stock to buy the business, a valuation equivalent to twice the market rate per subscriber at the time.
Since completion, the business has generated $8 billion of cash, after capital expenditure and license costs but before tax, according to one analyst's estimates. Factor that in, and the value destruction is only about $4 billion, spread over a decade, or 8 percent of the original deal price. Deutsche Telekom would not have done any better investing in German blue-chips, even including dividends.
Of course, this isn't a clean break. The bulk of the sale brings cash, allowing Deutsche Telekom to cut debt and still leave scope for buybacks and investment. But the German giant also would be left with an 8 percent stake in AT&T, which the optimists will see as potential upside.
After combining its British business into a joint venture and buying out minority stakes in Poland, Deutsche Telekom is in better shape to sell data services in its core European market. As the chief executive, Rene Obermann, says, Deutsche Telekom is ''fixed.'' No wonder he is also playing down the possibility of using the T-Mobile proceeds for any more big M.& A. ideas.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy F. Geithner said the Treasury would pare down its mortgage holdings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); BONDS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); HOME PRICES (70%); EBITDA (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (51%)

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (83%); DTE (BIT) (83%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



502 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: Will Mickey Mouse Wear a Milk Mustache?

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The Disney Channel is answering yes to the question ''Got milk?''
The Disney Channel cable channel is among the media properties owned by the Walt Disney Company that are carrying a campaign for a product sold by Horizon Organic called Horizon Organic Milk Plus DHA Omega-3.
Other Disney properties running the ads include Radio Disney, Disney FamilyFun magazine, disney.com, kaboose.com, disneyfamily.com and familyfun.com.
The campaign is the result of an agreement between the Disney media sales and marketing division and the media agency for Horizon Organic, which is Horizon Media in New York. 
Indeed, Horizon Media works for Horizon Organic, in a coincidence that may be unmatched on Madison Avenue -- at least since the last time that KSL Media bought commercial time on the Salt Lake City television station known as KSL.
After all, when the MEC media agency owned by WPP was known as Mediaedge:cia, the Central Intelligence Agency did not show up on its client roster. Nor does Universal McCann handle media for Universal Pictures.
''When we were originally pitching the business,'' Lori Wigler, brand group director at Horizon Media, says, laughing, Bill Koenigsberg, the president and chief executive of the agency, told the Horizon Organic executives that '''we were the only agency to change our name for you.' ''
Horizon Media has been the media agency for Horizon Organic, which is part of the WhiteWave Foods Company division of Dean Foods, since 2009. The creative agency for Horizon Organic is Leo Burnett in Chicago, part of the Publicis Groupe.
Burnett worked with the Disney media sales and marketing division to create a commercial for Horizon Organic Milk Plus DHA Omega-3 that is running on the Disney Channel.
The commercial adheres to the policies of the Disney Channel regarding advertising messages; it lasts only 15 seconds and it ends with an announcer declaring that the Horizon Organic product is a ''proud sponsor of Disney Channel.''
Under that sponsorship model, the Disney Channel limits commercials to a maximum of two an hour. Other marketers that are Disney Channel sponsors include Hasbro and Nissan.
Horizon Organic is the first maker of organic products to become a Disney Channel sponsor. The campaign also represents the first national television advertising for Horizon Organic, a brand that has primarily concentrated its marketing spending in the print media.
The Disney media deal has ''allowed us to reach into TV, radio, social media and print, across all those channels,'' says Dustin Finkel, brand manager for Horizon Organic in Broomfield, Colo.
''And the demographics between Horizon and Disney are a great match,'' he adds, in that ''our target audience is moms looking for better products for their kids and families.''
''As the leading organic dairy brand, we were looking for ways to increase awareness and increase penetration,'' Mr. Finkel says, which is another reason the Disney media agreement was so appealing.
Brands against which Horizon Organic milk products compete include Organic Valley and Stonyfield Organic. And retail chains like Whole Foods Market also sell their own private-label organic milk.
''The organic dairy industry had grown by double digits for many, many years,'' says Mike Ferry, president of Horizon Organic, ''until the recession hit.''
That is not surprising because organic milk and other organic dairy products cost more than their conventional counterparts.
In 2009, sales volume for organic dairy items ''was essentially flat'' compared with the year before, Mr. Ferry says, but in 2010 ''it returned to growth, and grew faster and faster as the year went on, back to double-digit growth.''
''And Horizon Organic was growing 5 to 7 points faster than the category,'' he adds.
Through the first two months of this year, ''we have not seen any lessening of that rapid growth rate,'' Mr. Ferry says.
''The category continues to grow in low double digits,'' he adds, ''and Horizon Organic is growing five to six points faster than the category.''
The company's milk variety that is fortified with DHA omega-3 is ''one of our key growth products in our portfolio,'' Mr. Ferry says.
It is aimed at families because DHA omega-3 is described as helping support brain development, which ''is important for growing children,'' he adds.
That point is made in a radio commercial that is part of the Disney media campaign, in which a girl interrupts a museum guide's discussion of dinosaurs to impart information. By the end of the commercial, she has taken over the tour.
''Kids are smart,'' an announcer says. ''Continue to help support their brain development with Horizon Organic DHA Omega-3 Milk, the organic way to help give your kids the nourishment they need.''
The commercial concludes by directing listeners to a Web site.
Print ads take a similar tack with text that offers a pitch for the value of DHA omega-3.
One print ad carries this headline: ''Milk with DHA omega-3 isn't rocket science. But it is genius.''
A second print ad, depicting a boy standing on a statue of a cow to reach a book on a shelf, calls it ''support for growing brains.''
In a third print ad, a girl playing chess is on the same cow statue. A headline calls the milk ''a smart move for growing brains.''
The commercial appearing on the Disney Channel features a girl playing chess with her grandfather. Because the channel's rules on advertising discourage product claims, the spiel about DHA omega-3 is omitted.
Instead, the grandfather pours a glass of milk from a carton of Horizon Organic Milk Plus DHA Omega-3 and asks his granddaughter at the chess board, ''Need a little more time?''
She replies: ''Nope. Checkmate.'' The grandfather laughs. An announcer comes on and declares the milk to be a ''smart move,'' then adds the line about how it is a ''proud sponsor'' of the channel.
Ms. Wigler describes Disney as ''a really good fit'' for Horizon Organic ''for a lot of reasons,'' among them ''what each brand stands for.''
''Both talk to moms and families,'' she adds, and both ''are protective of their brands.''
Horizon Media ''went to a lot of potential partners,'' Ms. Wigler says, in seeking a media company for Horizon Organic, and Disney's proposal truly integrated the various media properties it owns.
By comparison, she adds, many media companies ''are still in the age of, 'print, you talk to this person' and 'digital, you talk to this person.' ''
''Ideally, I would love for more'' to be like Disney, Ms. Wigler says.
Mr. Ferry says the spending for the Disney media campaign is ''a low-seven-figure kind of partnership in Year 1'' representing ''a meaningful portion of our business.''
Asked to characterize ''meaningful,'' he says the campaign is accounting for 25 to 30 percent of the total budget for 2011, adding that Horizon Organic milk typically spends $4 million to $5 million a year for media advertising.
(For all Horizon Organic dairy products, according to data from the Kantar Media unit of WPP, spending totaled $10.9 million in 2007, $9.3 million in 2008, $9.5 million in 2009 and $10.2 million last year.)
As is often the case in the organic food category, there is a bit of contention surrounding Horizon Organic Milk Plus DHA Omega-3.
A watchdog organization for the organic industry, the Cornucopia Institute, filed a complaint against Dean Foods last month. The complaint charges that the product contains a synthetic version of DHA that is laboratory-produced and not on a list of synthetic substances that are approved by the National Organic Standards Board for use in organic foods.
Mr. Finkel says the DHA with which the milk is fortified ''is 100 percent approved and legal in organic products.''
Even so, Mr. Ferry says that Horizon Organic is ''going back through a newer approval process'' and resubmitting the ingredient to the board to put to rest any doubts.
The television and radio commercials are running only in the Disney media properties. Print and digital ads are appearing in media owned by other companies as well as Disney.
For instance, print ads are to run in magazines like American Baby, Better Homes and Gardens, Everyday Food, Family Circle, Fitness, Martha Stewart Living, Scholastic Parent and Child and Working Mother.
Some print insertions will be composed of a full-page ad followed by an ad that takes up a third of a page and is devoted to Horizon Organic milk varieties in single-serve packages that resemble juice boxes.
Those smaller ads carry the headline ''Think outside the juice box.''
Horizon Organic is also working with a digital agency, Room 214 in Boulder, Colo.
If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. And read coverage anytime of advertising, marketing, television, print, movies and new media on the Media Decoder blog at mediadecoder.blogs.nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (90%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (89%); MILK (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (75%); BRANDING (75%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (75%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); MOTHERS MARKET (70%); FOOD MFG (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (94%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (92%); WHITEWAVE FOODS CO (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (57%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (55%); DEAN FOODS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (94%); WWAV (NYSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (84%); DF (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (94%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (94%); NAICS424490 OTHER GROCERY & RELATED PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311512 CREAMERY BUTTER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (57%); COLORADO, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



503 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Merger Under Microscope

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Mega-mergers may be celebrated on Wall Street on the theory that bigger is better. But the proposed merger of AT&T and T-Mobile is likely to face intense scrutiny by regulators, lawmakers and consumer advocates.
The review of the merger, one of the largest deals since the 2008 financial crisis, will also be a test for the White House. During his campaign, President Obama criticized the Bush administration's record on antitrust review, and promised to increase scrutiny of merger proposals. 
Some analysts say it is too early to see if the merger will pass muster. Part of the difficulty stems from the fact that the two primary agencies that will oversee any merger -- the Federal Communications Commission and the Justice Department's antitrust division -- look at it with different goals in mind.
The Justice Department will chiefly examine whether competition among wireless mobile phone providers would remain sufficient after a merger. The department gave some hint to its thinking when it told the F.C.C. last year that the agency needed to use its ''policy levers'' to encourage more competition among wireless companies, particularly in wireless broadband access.
The F.C.C., on the other hand, has a goal of protecting the public interest in allocating use of the public airwaves, which it does in part by promoting competition. For example, one objective involves pushing the big wireless companies to allow smaller competitors to use their networks for data roaming services. Such policy initiatives give the F.C.C. more flexibility to consider conditions that it could apply to a merger to make it more palatable.
''Normally, competition and the public interest go hand in hand,'' said Bert Foer, president of the American Antitrust Institute, a nonprofit agency that generally argues for more competition. But federal courts have recently sided with regulatory agencies instead of antitrust enforcers when conflicts occur, something that perhaps will give the F.C.C. the advantage in setting the conditions under which to approve a merger.
Congress, too, is likely to play a part in scrutinizing the proposed merger. Several Congressional committees have already announced plans to review the deal.
Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, a West Virginia Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, said it was ''absolutely essential'' for both the Justice Department and the F.C.C. to ''leave no stone unturned in determining what the impact of this combination is on the American people.''
Most recently, lawmakers and the White House faced stiff opposition from advocacy groups over the recent merger of Comcast and NBC Universal. That deal was approved by the Justice Department and the F.C.C. with several conditions that subject the expanded company to additional oversight, but many consumer groups and liberal advocacy organizations were unsatisfied with those terms.
''I'm not a huge fan of weighing down a merger with a dozen or more conditions,'' said Gigi B. Sohn, president of Public Knowledge, a consumer advocacy group that sharply criticized the proposed merger of AT&T and T-Mobile. ''As a regulator, you have to ask yourself how a merger could be in the public interest if you have to do all those things to it to get it done.''
AT&T is already pre-empting any concerns from lawmakers. Its publicity materials announcing the merger (including a dedicated Web site, mobilizeeverything.com), pulled language directly from the president's State of the Union Message with references to providing wireless high-speed Internet to nearly all Americans in the next five years. And to help Senator Rockefeller with his deliberations, AT&T prominently displayed in its online materials a map of how the merger would expand service in West Virginia.
AT&T contends that the wireless phone market is highly competitive, with 18 of the 20 largest United States markets each having five or more wireless competitors. That may help AT&T, as the Justice Department has traditionally looked at local competition when considering whether a proposed merger will substantially reduce consumer options, said Michael L. Weiner, a partner and co-chairman of the antitrust practice at Dechert, an international law firm.
But national competition also plays an important role in the wireless market. Many mobile phone customers base their buying decisions on whether they will have to pay expensive roaming charges when they travel out of their home area. And after the merger, AT&T and Verizon will between them control nearly 80 percent of the wireless market, with the third-largest competitor, Sprint, lagging far behind.
When AT&T Wireless merged with Cingular in 2004, it emphasized the national benefits of the joined companies, Mr. Weiner said. Now, it is making the opposite argument.
''We're very confident that we can achieve a successful regulatory review,'' Wayne Watts, a senior executive vice president and general counsel at AT&T, said Monday. ''The facts show significant, unique public interest benefits from this transaction.''
AT&T also said that it expected to discuss some divestitures with regulators to get approval for the deal. Most likely, those would take the form of the company giving up some wireless airwaves in certain cities where the merger would leave too few competitors.
The F.C.C. could use its leverage over the parties in discussing those possible conditions, under the theory that a company trying to get approval for a merger is unlikely to strongly oppose its chief regulator's policy goals.
For example, the agency has been trying to get the large wireless companies to allow customers of other providers to use their networks for data roaming, much as they allow for roaming for voice services. The big providers have been reluctant to do so, because data services use much more bandwidth and, as AT&T customers with iPhones know, that can greatly slow a network.
The F.C.C. also has voiced its desire to expand its policy of net neutrality, which requires that Internet service providers not slow or block specific content, to apply to wireless broadband services as well as to wired services.
Though the F.C.C.'s position on net neutrality for wired Internet service was opposed by many telecommunications companies, AT&T supported it. This month, amid its talks with T-Mobile, AT&T's chief lobbyist, James W. Cicconi, testified to the company's support of the F.C.C. policy before a hostile House subcommittee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Julius Genachowski, the Federal Communications Commission chairman, and Christine Varney, assistant attorney general. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); MERGERS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); APPROVALS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); LIBERALISM (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); BROADBAND (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%)

COMPANY: T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (58%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JULIUS GENACHOWSKI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



504 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Wisconsin's Radical Break

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CRONON. 
William Cronon is a professor of history, geography and environmental studies at the University of Wisconsin Madison.

 BODY:
Madison, Wis.
NOW that a Wisconsin judge has temporarily blocked a state law that would strip public employee unions of most collective bargaining rights, it's worth stepping back to place these events in larger historical context.
Republicans in Wisconsin are seeking to reverse civic traditions that for more than a century have been among the most celebrated achievements not just of their state, but of their own party as well.
Wisconsin was at the forefront of the progressive reform movement in the early 20th century, when the policies of Gov. Robert M. La Follette prompted a fellow Republican, Theodore Roosevelt, to call the state a ''laboratory of democracy.'' The state pioneered many social reforms: It was the first to introduce workers' compensation, in 1911; unemployment insurance, in 1932; and public employee bargaining, in 1959. 
University of Wisconsin professors helped design Social Security and were responsible for founding the union that eventually became the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. Wisconsin reformers were equally active in promoting workplace safety, and often led the nation in natural resource conservation and environmental protection.
But while Americans are aware of this progressive tradition, they probably don't know that many of the innovations on behalf of working people were at least as much the work of Republicans as of Democrats.
Although Wisconsin has a Democratic reputation these days -- it backed the party's presidential candidates in 2000, 2004 and 2008 -- the state was dominated by Republicans for a full century after the Civil War. The Democratic Party was so ineffective that Wisconsin politics were largely conducted as debates between the progressive and conservative wings of the Republican Party.
When the Wisconsin Democratic Party finally revived itself in the 1950s, it did so in a context where members of both parties were unusually open to bipartisan policy approaches. Many of the new Democrats had in fact been progressive Republicans just a few years earlier, having left the party in revulsion against the reactionary politics of their own senator, Joseph R. McCarthy, and in sympathy with postwar liberalizing forces like the growing civil rights movement.
The demonizing of government at all levels that has become such a reflexive impulse for conservatives in the early 21st century would have mystified most elected officials in Wisconsin just a few decades ago.
When Gov. Gaylord A. Nelson, a Democrat, sought to extend collective bargaining rights to municipal workers in 1959, he did so in partnership with a Legislature in which one house was controlled by the Republicans. Both sides believed the normalization of labor-management relations would increase efficiency and avoid crippling strikes like those of the Milwaukee garbage collectors during the 1950s. Later, in 1967, when collective bargaining was extended to state workers for the same reasons, the reform was promoted by a Republican governor, Warren P. Knowles, with a Republican Legislature.
The policies that the current governor, Scott Walker, has sought to overturn, in other words, are legacies of his own party.
But Mr. Walker's assault on collective bargaining rights breaks with Wisconsin history in two much deeper ways as well. Among the state's proudest traditions is a passion for transparent government that often strikes outsiders as extreme. Its open meetings law, open records law and public comment procedures are among the strongest in the nation. Indeed, the basis for the restraining order blocking the collective bargaining law is that Republicans may have violated open meetings rules in passing it. The legislation they have enacted turns out to be radical not just in its content, but in its blunt ends-justify-the-means disregard for openness and transparency.
This in turn points to what is perhaps Mr. Walker's greatest break from the political traditions of his state. Wisconsinites have long believed that common problems deserve common solutions, and that when something needs fixing, we should roll up our sleeves and work together -- no matter what our politics -- to achieve the common good.
Mr. Walker's conduct has provoked a level of divisiveness and bitter partisan hostility the likes of which have not been seen in this state since at least the Vietnam War. Many citizens are furious at their governor and his party, not only because of profound policy differences, but because these particular Republicans have exercised power in abusively nontransparent ways that represent such a radical break from the state's tradition of open government.
Perhaps that is why -- as a centrist and a lifelong independent -- I have found myself returning over the past few weeks to the question posed by the lawyer Joseph N. Welch during the hearings that finally helped bring down another Wisconsin Republican, Joe McCarthy, in 1954: ''Have you no sense of decency, sir, at long last? Have you left no sense of decency?''
Scott Walker is not Joe McCarthy. Their political convictions and the two moments in history are quite different. But there is something about the style of the two men -- their aggressiveness, their self-certainty, their seeming indifference to contrary views -- that may help explain the extreme partisan reactions they triggered. McCarthy helped create the modern Democratic Party in Wisconsin by infuriating progressive Republicans, imagining that he could build a national platform by cultivating an image as a sternly uncompromising leader willing to attack anyone who stood in his way. Mr. Walker appears to be provoking some of the same ire from adversaries and from advocates of good government by acting with a similar contempt for those who disagree with him.
The turmoil in Wisconsin is not only about bargaining rights or the pension payments of public employees. It is about transparency and openness. It is about neighborliness, decency and mutual respect. Joe McCarthy forgot these lessons of good government, and so, I fear, has Mr. Walker. Wisconsin's citizens have not.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS SILAS NEAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (78%); HISTORY (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); COUNTIES (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



505 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: With Few Jobs, A Single Pastor Points to a Bias

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
Like all too many Americans, Mark Almlie was laid off in the spring of 2009 when his workplace downsized. He has been searching for an appropriate position ever since, replying to more than 500 job postings without success.
But Mr. Almlie, despite a sterling education and years of experience, has faced an obstacle that does not exist in most professions: He is a single pastor, in a field where those doing the hiring overwhelmingly prefer married people and, especially, married men with children.
Mr. Almlie, 37, has been shocked, he says, at what he calls unfair discrimination, based mainly on irrational fears: that a single pastor cannot counsel a mostly married flock, that he might sow turmoil by flirting with a church member, or that he might be gay. If the job search is hard for single men, it is doubly so for single women who train for the ministry, in part because many evangelical denominations explicitly require a man to lead the congregation. 
Mr. Almlie, an ordained evangelical minister who lives in Petaluma, Calif., has also had to contend with the argument, which he disputes with scriptural citations of his own, that the Bible calls for married leaders. ''Prejudice against single pastors abounds,'' Mr. Almlie wrote in articles he posted on a popular Christian blog site in January and February, setting off a wide-ranging debate online on a topic that many said has been largely ignored.
Some evangelical churches, in particular, openly exclude single candidates; a recent posting for a pastor by a church on Long Island said it was seeking ''a family man whose family will be involved in the ministry life of the church.'' Other churches convey the message through code words, like ''seeking a Biblical man'' (translation: a husband and a provider).
''I'll get an e-mail saying 'wonderful resume,' '' Mr. Almlie said in an interview. ''Once I say I'm single, never married, I never hear back.''
Federal anti-discrimination law specifically exempts religious groups when they hire a person for religion-related activities, and courts have been loath to interfere in ministerial employment, said David Middlebrook, a lawyer and a specialist in religion law in Dallas and Fort Worth.
R. Albert Mohler Jr., president of Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Ky., said it was unfair to accuse churches of discrimination because that word implied something ''wrongful.''
''Both the logic of Scripture and the centrality of marriage in society,'' he said, justify ''the strong inclination of congregations to hire a man who is not only married but faithfully married.''
Mr. Mohler said he tells the students at his seminary that ''if they remain single, they need to understand that there's going to be a significant limitation on their ability to serve as a pastor.''
Women seeking positions in mainline Protestant denominations like Episcopal and Presbyterian have seen the doors widen: By 2009, 28 percent of senior pastors in mainline churches were female, according to a survey byU.S. Congregations, a nonprofit research group in Louisville, Ky. But a preference or firm requirement for male pastors persists among conservative churches (mainly evangelical), with fewer than 2 percent of senior positions held by women.
Single pastors remain uncommon, especially among conservative churches, where the figure is one in 20, according to the same survey. Among mainline Protestant denominations, roughly one in six senior pastors are single.
Amy Mark is, like Mr. Almlie, ordained by the Evangelical Covenant Church, and like him has searched widely in the evangelical world for a permanent position. After seven years with only some temporary pastoral stints, she finds herself working in a crafts shop to get by.
Her denomination's policy of accepting women as leaders has not been taken to heart by many local churches, she discovered to her chagrin. Being single was a major second obstacle.
In more than 50 interviews, she said, ''they often acted like I'm not quite whole because I'm single,'' questioning whether she could counsel couples or parents. At the same time, some also asked whether, if she did get married and have a family, she would be able to continue with a demanding job as a pastor.
Ms. Mark is now helping to start a new ministry for teenage mothers in a low-income area east of San Francisco -- a project that has lifted her spirits, she said, after years of feeling hurt and betrayed.
Scott Cormode, professor of leadership development at Fuller Theological Seminary in Pasadena, Calif. -- where Mr. Almlie received his master's of divinity before he worked as an assistant pastor in California -- said he did not believe that the bias against single pastors was as pervasive as Mr. Almlie contended. He noted that finding a position was always hard in a crowded field.
But Jackson W. Carroll, emeritus professor of religion at Duke Divinity School, suggested that the preference for marriage might have been hardened by the social upheavals of recent decades.
''Evangelicals are responding to the sexual revolution of the 1960s, which they saw as a real threat to the family,'' he said. ''A pastor with a wife is less likely to be a homosexual and more likely to mirror the traditional image of a family.''
Matt Steen, 35, encountered concerns about the possibility of sexual misconduct during the year he fruitlessly sought a new position as a youth pastor. ''I had some pretty candid conversations with churches,'' he recalled of his interviews in 2006. ''They'd say, 'Tell me about your wife and kids,' and I'd say, 'I haven't met them yet.' ''
Many interviewers seemed to fear that he might ''do something stupid, like get involved with a student,'' he said. ''I told them that I understand the concern, but that I've seen married pastors make the same mistakes.''
Mr. Steen later married and for family reasons moved to Long Island, ultimately leaving the ministry. He now markets accounting services to churches.
Some religion experts suggested a less charitable reason for the marriage requirement: the expectation that a pastor's wife will provide unpaid labor, perhaps leading the choir or teaching Sunday school.
''Sometimes, parishioners have an unspoken preference for a happily married male with a wife who does not work outside the home,'' Cynthia Woolever, research director at U.S. Congregations, wrote in a 2009 article. ''She also volunteers at the church while raising 'wholesome and polite children.' ''
Mr. Almlie notes that during the first 1,500 years of Christianity, ''singleness, not marriage, was lauded as next to godliness.'' Martin Luther, in his break with Rome, preached against mandatory celibacy and got married himself.
As he searches for a job, Mr. Almlie is also looking for a life partner. He has tried Christian dating services and even eHarmony, but nothing has clicked. He says that he understands the desire to have a model family, but that he faces too many myths and fears.
''Ultimately, I do begrudge not being hired,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Almlie, an unemployed evangelical minister, suspects that being unmarried has hurt his chances to find a new job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (66%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (51%) TEXAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



506 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: A Proud 'Lobbyist' And 'Southerner' Weighs 'President'

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- He became wealthy as a lobbyist, representing tobacco companies and foreign governments. A former Republican Party chairman, he would seem the ultimate Washington insider. A white Southerner, he has faced questions about his remarks on race.
As he steps closer to becoming a presidential candidate, Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi has some explaining to do. And rather than running away from his background, he is embracing it.
A lobbyist? Well, he knows how to promote an agenda. An insider? He knows how government works and how to get things done for the American people. A Southerner? So were Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter.
''I wanted you to see first-hand what a Haley Barbour is,'' he said on a recent day, standing before a small crowd at the Iowa Capitol as he tries to introduce himself to voters on his own terms. 
A candidacy by Mr. Barbour, 63, could present a test of whether the party establishment will collide or join forces with the fervor of conservative grass-roots activists who made their displeasure at the Republican hierarchy known last year. He presents himself to voters as a reassuring presence in uncertain times, like a warm blanket that is too cozy to discard.
He is, in most ways, a traditional Chamber of Commerce Republican, intent on projecting competence, experience and a focus on low taxes, less-intrusive government and fewer regulations. As he addressed a luncheon audience of the Iowa Federation of Republican Women that was filled with opponents of same-sex marriage, many of whom wore stickers on their blouses, he did not raise social issues and instead stuck to his fiscal message.
But he is also showing a willingness to challenge conservative consensus on some issues. He did not join in criticizing President Obama's decision to authorize military action in Libya, saying, ''This is not the time to critique what the administration has done or will do.''
At an appearance in Iowa last week, he said he was not certain that the United States should have 100,000 troops in Afghanistan, given that most Al Qaeda fighters are across the border in Pakistan, suggesting he might take a different approach to the war from the one advocated by most in his party. While many Republicans say their support for budget cutting does not extend to the military, Mr. Barbour said the Pentagon should not be exempt.
''Anybody who thinks you can't save money at the Pentagon has never been to the Pentagon,'' he said, drawing applause at a Republican dinner in Davenport. ''If we Republicans don't propose saving money on defense, we won't have credibility on anything else.''
Mr. Barbour's presence remains larger than life, even though he has been shrinking in recent months. As he walked at a relatively brisk pace from meeting to meeting on a two-day visit to Iowa, the traditional first stop of the presidential nominating season, he looked noticeably trimmer in his face and around his middle.
''I lost 20 pounds, and it made my back hurt,'' he said, grinning when asked yet another question about his weight. ''I have to lose about 20 more -- by the end of April.''
As he finishes his second term as governor, where he earned praise for presiding over the recovery from Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Barbour is back on the presidential campaign trail, four decades after working on Richard M. Nixon's first winning race.
He often slips into the third-person as he argues that even though he served as a political director in the Reagan White House and chairman of the Republican Governors Association and is one of his party's most esteemed strategists, he remains largely unknown to most voters.
''They have yet to learn what a Haley Barbour is,'' he said, ''and that will be a challenge.''
He is steadily building a campaign apparatus in early-voting states, expanding a network of donors and working to introduce himself to voters before rivals can define him. A key part of that introduction involves making the argument that his perceived liabilities should be seen as assets in reaching the party's goal of defeating Mr. Obama.
Not only does Mr. Barbour make no apology for his work as a corporate lobbyist or try to steer attention to other areas of his resume, he raises the subject himself and wraps it in folksy packaging. He tells audiences the experience allowed him to learn all facets of government, pausing to amplify his point in a slow drawl: ''I saw the sausage factory up close.''
In an interview, as he sipped a cup of hot tea, Mr. Barbour said that he was ready for the scrutiny of a presidential bid -- by fellow Republicans, Democrats and the news media -- that is certain to be more intense than his two campaigns in Mississippi.
''The president of the United States is supposed to be the principal advocate for American policy and interests in the world,'' he said. ''That form of advocacy is equivalent to lobbying.''
He dismissed a suggestion that voters could reach a different conclusion once they had a full sense of his clients and the type of work his firm provided, which included representing the government of Mexico, military contractors and drug companies. He said voters were more concerned about the economy, job creation and the country's debt rather than hearing old recitations of his business dealings.
''The American people,'' Mr. Barbour said, ''want a strong hand at the tiller to give them more confidence.''
He is effective at the kind of one-on-one campaigning common in the early primary states, shaking hands and making effortless small talk that leaves voters feeling they made a real connection.
''Every candidate in the race has got some kind of baggage if you define baggage broadly,'' said Steve Roberts, a lawyer and longtime Republican activist in Iowa. ''If people are saying, 'We want competence and the ability to govern,' that's where Haley Barbour could fit in.''
The indictment that Mr. Barbour lays out against the president is different from the early approach of many likely rivals. He does not suggest that Mr. Obama favors a European socialist governing style (as Newt Gingrich argues). He rarely makes jokes at Mr. Obama's expense (as Tim Pawlenty does). He does not say Mr. Obama was caught flat-footed by protests sweeping through the Middle East (as Mitt Romney asserts).
''I have repeatedly heard voters make a comment that I have never previously heard in my lifetime in politics, 'I'm afraid my children and grandchildren are not going to inherit the same country that I inherited,' '' Mr. Barbour said at every stop. ''I never heard that when Jimmy Carter was president or when Bill Clinton was president.''
Mr. Barbour frequently invokes Mr. Carter and Mr. Clinton as examples of how a Southern governor can win the White House. He also uses them to criticize the policies of Mr. Obama, particularly on the deficit, which he tells audiences was ''bigger than Bill Clinton's entire budget for the whole federal government back in 1997.''
One thing that Mr. Barbour does not often discuss is his state's racial history and how his previous statements could affect his appeal to voters. He said a comment to the conservative Weekly Standard about the civil rights era -- ''I just don't remember it as being that bad'' -- has been misconstrued because he was talking about his overall childhood.
''If someone had asked me about the racial situation in the segregated South when I was growing up,'' Mr. Barbour said, ''I would have said that while people at the time didn't know -- this was all they knew -- they realized ultimately that it was indefensible.''
While Mr. Barbour has left supporters with the impression that he has every intention of running for president, scheduling trips to Iowa and New Hampshire in the week ahead, he can occasionally sound less definitive. As reporters try to pin him down, he said, ''I have to decide if I want to dedicate what essentially is the rest of my productive life to the most consuming job on the face of the earth.''
But when asked in an interview whether he had worries about his own stamina, he answered the question with a question of his own: ''Do I look like I'm about to die or about to fall over dead?'' His words are followed by a big, booming laugh.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Haley Barbour, Republican of Mississippi, who has been visiting Iowa this month as he tests the waters for a presidential candidacy, often points to Jimmy Carter of Georgia, and Bill Clinton of Arkansas as examples of how a Southern governor can win the White House. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ACKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
THE WHITE HOUSE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
PAUL HOSEFROS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)
 Gov. Haley Barbour last week at a Republican Party event in Davenport, Iowa. He is in his second term as Mississippi governor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ACKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BUDGETS (70%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); HALEY BARBOUR (90%); JIMMY CARTER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (93%); DAVENPORT, IA, USA (89%) IOWA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



507 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-LED ASSAULTS HIT TRIPOLI AGAIN; OBJECTIVE IS NEAR

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and KAREEM FAHIM; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Washington, and Kareem Fahim from Benghazi, Libya. Contributing reporting were David D. Kirkpatrick from Tripoli, Libya; Eric Schmitt and Thom Shanker from Washington; Steven Erlanger and Alan Cowell from Paris; Clifford J. Levy from Moscow; and Julia Werdigier from London.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- An American-led military campaign to destroy Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's air defenses and establish a no-fly zone over Libya has nearly accomplished its initial objectives, and the United States is moving swiftly to hand command to allies in Europe, American officials said Monday.
But the firepower of more than 130 Tomahawk cruise missiles and attacks by allied warplanes have not yet succeeded in accomplishing the more ambitious demands by the United States -- repeated by President Obama in a letter to Congress on Monday -- that Colonel Qaddafi withdraw his forces from embattled cities and cease all attacks against civilians.
Libyan government forces continued to engage in scattered fighting on Monday, defying the United Nations resolutions authorizing the allied strikes. The resolution demands an immediate cease-fire by Colonel Qaddafi's forces and an end to attacks on civilians. 
Pentagon officials are eager to extract the United States from a third armed conflict in a Muslim country as quickly as possible. But confusion broke out on Monday among the allies in Europe over who exactly would carry the military operation forward once the United States stepped back, and from where.
In Washington, lawmakers from both parties argued that Mr. Obama had exceeded his constitutional authority by authorizing the military's participation without Congressional approval. The president said in a letter to Congress that he had the power to authorize the strikes, which would be limited in duration and scope, and that preventing a humanitarian disaster in Libya was in the national interest.
At the United Nations, the Security Council rejected a request from Libya for a meeting to discuss the situation.
Qaddafi forces were holding out against the allied military campaign to break their grip. Rebel fighters trying to retake the eastern town of Ajdabiya said their advance was halted on Monday by tank and rocket fire from government loyalists still controlling entrances to the city. Dozens of fighters fell back to a checkpoint about 25 miles north of Ajdabiya, in Zueitina.
By the early afternoon, the fighters said at least eight of their confederates had been killed in the day's fighting, including four who were killed when a tank shell struck their pickup truck.
In the western city of Misurata, forces loyal to Colonel Qaddafi were still at large and were using civilians as human shields, Reuters reported, but that could not be immediately confirmed.
At the Pentagon, officials said that the intensive American-led assault unleashed over the weekend was a classic air campaign, chosen by Mr. Obama among a range of military options, which was intended to have coalition aircraft in the skies above Libya within days and without fear of being shot down. ''You don't do that piecemeal,'' a United States military official said. ''You do it all at once, and you do it as fast as you can.''
The targets included radar installations, fixed and mobile antiaircraft sites, Libyan aircraft and hangars, and other targets intended to make it safe for allied aircraft to impose the no-fly zone. They also included tanks and other ground forces engaged with the rebels around the country, reflecting the broader aim of pushing Colonel Qadaffi's forces to withdraw from disputed cities. Communications centers and at least one Scud missile site were also struck.
Explosions and antiaircraft fire could be heard in and around Tripoli on Monday in a third straight night of attacks there against Colonel Qadaffi's forces.
United States military officials said that there were fewer American and coalition airstrikes in Libya on Sunday night and Monday, and that the number would probably decline further in coming days. But Gen. Carter F. Ham, the head of the United States Africa Command, who is in charge of the coalition effort, said that there would be strikes on Colonel Qaddafi's mobile air defenses and that some 80 sorties -- only half by the United States -- were flown on Monday.
General Ham also said he had ''full authority'' to attack the regime's forces if they refused to comply with President Obama's demands that they pull back from Ajdabiya, Misurata and Zawiya.
By Monday night, explosions and antiaircraft fire could be heard in and around Tripoli in the third straight day of attacks.
In Santiago, Chile, Mr. Obama restated that the United States would soon turn over full responsibility to the allies to maintain the no-fly zone. He also sought to distinguish the stated goals of the United Nations-authorized military operation -- protecting Libyan civilians, establishing a no-flight zone and forcing Colonel Qaddafi's withdrawal from the cities -- with his own administration's demand, not included in the United Nations resolution, that Colonel Qaddafi had to leave office.
''It is U.S. policy that Qaddafi needs to go,'' Mr. Obama said at a news conference with the Chilean president, Sebastian Pinera. ''And we've got a wide range of tools in addition to our military effort to support that policy.'' Mr. Obama cited economic sanctions, the freezing of assets and other measures to isolate the regime in Tripoli.
United States military commanders repeated throughout the day that they were not communicating with Libyan rebels, even as a spokesman for the rebel military, Khaled El-Sayeh, asserted that rebel officers had been providing the allies with coordinates for their airstrikes. ''We give them the coordinates, and we give them the location that needs to be bombed,'' Mr. Sayeh told reporters.
On Monday night, a United States military official responded that ''we know of no instances where this has occurred.''
Earlier in the day, General Ham repeatedly said in answer to questions from reporters that the United States was not working with the rebels. ''Our mission is not to support any opposition forces,'' General Ham said by video feed to the Pentagon from the headquarters of Africa Command in Stuttgart, Germany.
Mr. Sayeh said that there were no Western military trainers advising the rebel fighters, but that he would welcome such help. He added, with evident frustration, that the rebel fighters on the front in Ajdabiya ''didn't take orders from anybody.''
Like other rebel military officials, Mr. Sayeh said the rebels had been working to better organize their ranks to include members of specialized units from the Libyan Army that would attack Colonel Qaddafi's forces when the time was right. But evidence of such a force has yet to materialize.
The rebels appeared to have fallen into some disarray as they returned from Ajdabiya, with one commander at the checkpoint trying to marshal them with a barely functioning megaphone. He tried organizing the assembled fighters into columns for an attack, but nearly fell off the truck as he ordered the fighters to move.
''I know most of you are civilians,'' he said. ''But we have to charge.'' Only a few trucks inched forward as other fighters stood and argued among themselves.
At NATO headquarters in Brussels on Monday, members of the military alliance came to no agreement on who would take the lead on a no-fly zone or how to proceed on enforcing a United Nations arms embargo against Libya.
Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain said responsibility for the no-fly zone would be transferred to NATO. But France objected to that, with its foreign minister, Alain Juppe, saying: ''The Arab League does not wish the operation to be entirely placed under NATO responsibility. It isn't NATO which has taken the initiative up to now.''
Turkey, a NATO member that has opposed the use of force in Libya and was still seething over being omitted from a planning meeting in Paris on Saturday, refused on Sunday to back a NATO military plan for the no-fly zone. But its prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, denied that his country was against NATO participation in the operation, saying only that he wanted assurances that it would be brief and not end in an occupation.
Online Correction: March 21, 2011, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article gave an incorrect title for Alain Juppe. He is the foreign minister of France, not its prime minister.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Libyan rebels seeking cover during an attempt on Monday to take the town of Ajdabiya from Qaddafi forces, which continued scattered fighting despite airstrikes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK BAZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A13) MAP: Clashes in the Northeast (Sources: Department of Defense and news reports. Map data from LeadDog Consulting) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); AIR FORCES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



508 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Governor Of Minnesota Forms Panel For 2012 Bid

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota became the first major Republican to enter the 2012 presidential race, announcing an exploratory committee on Monday that formalizes an ambition that has been steadily building for more than a year. 
''There is a brighter future for America,'' Mr. Pawlenty said in a video posted on his Facebook page. ''We know what we need to do: grow jobs, limit government spending, tackle entitlements.''
In a two-minute message that was set to music, Mr. Pawlenty did not specify how he would address entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare, but he introduced himself as a candidate with working-class roots who would focus on lifting the economy, creating jobs and limiting government intervention in business.
Mr. Pawlenty has been visiting early-voting states for months, recruiting contributors and courting activists who are influential in selecting the Republican nominee to challenge President Obama. He has struggled to break away from the party's crowded field, so his announcement was intended to provide a head start raising money and building a campaign organization.
''We need to encourage the dreamers and innovators,'' Mr. Pawlenty said, ''the small-business owners, the hard workers, the brave men and women throughout this country's history that have asked for nothing more than the freedom to work hard and get ahead without government getting in the way.''
The development on Monday was the latest step in what has become a multilayered process of running for president. Even though Mr. Pawlenty had signed his paperwork on Friday, it was not delivered to the Federal Election Commission until Monday afternoon, when his advisers had decided to time the announcement for greater exposure.
He is the first of nearly a half-dozen Republicans who are expected to take steps to open exploratory committees, which allows candidates to raise money and hire staff members to test a presidential run. He is opening his campaign headquarters in downtown Minneapolis.
At this point four years ago, nearly 20 Democrats and Republicans had established exploratory committees or disclosed their intentions to run for president. Newt Gingrich, a former House speaker, is already raising money but has stopped short of filing an exploratory committee. Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi and former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts also are moving closer toward making their intentions known.
Mr. Pawlenty, 50, disclosed his intentions on Monday morning in a conference call to contributors, whom he has been quietly courting in a series of events across the country that he calls ''friend-raisers.''
His name recognition has grown since 2008, when he was a finalist to be Senator John McCain's vice-presidential running mate, a job that ultimately went to Sarah Palin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tim Pawlenty 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); MEDICARE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); HISTORY (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: TIM PAWLENTY (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



509 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: As the Allies Wage War on Qaddafi

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Allies Open Air Assault on Qaddafi's Forces'' (front page, March 20):
It is unfortunate and ironic that the president of the world's leading democracy can place his troops in harm's way without having to consult the people, from whom his powers are philosophically derived.
To be sure, President Obama's decision appears to have been based on reasonable moral and political considerations. And given the speed at which events occur, he appears to have had little choice other than to act as he did. 
But it is a telling commentary that a president can commit his nation to an armed conflict that does not bear on the nation's self-interest without having to obtain the formal approval of a majority of the people's elected representatives or engage the public in a deliberative discussion.
Richard M. Perloff Cleveland, March 20, 2011
To the Editor:
The military attack on Libya raises many questions: How does the United States plan to end the war? What if a short war turns into a long war? Can our volunteer military fight yet a third war? Will United States ground troops eventually be required to finish off what air attacks cannot?
Who, precisely, are the Libyan rebels in Benghazi? Why Libya and not also Bahrain and Yemen?
And finally, why the silence among all those antiwar dissidents who enthusiastically supported President Obama and rightly excoriated President George W. Bush for Iraq and Afghanistan?
Murray Polner Great Neck, N.Y., March 21, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''A Very Liberal Intervention,'' by Ross Douthat (column, March 21):
We comprehend that the undertaking in Libya is indeed fraught with peril on many levels. The Arab nations that joined the alliance are uncomfortable partners; we are involved in yet one more muddled situation in a part of the world that views us with much suspicion and much contempt.
We are uncertain in our ultimate aims, and we are unclear whether those aims can be reached. We don't know, even if successful, what form new leadership will take. Protecting our own national security is not the issue here. We are militarily engaged in other countries that require our attention and our resources and drain us economically. And there are other countries in this region that, like the Libyan rebels, may soon be looking to us for more than moral support.
These are all legitimate reasons to question our sanity in what we have now undertaken. Yet despite all of this, if we stand by idly, watching as the seeds of democracy are crushed and a people are slaughtered systematically by one of their own, what are we?
When we have the opportunity and the capacity to act as guardians for a people who cannot protect themselves, and face imminent annihilation, isn't that the moment that all other concerns must be cast aside? If we can do what's morally right, is there any way that we cannot?
Robert S. Nussbaum Fort Lee, N.J., March 21, 2011
To the Editor:
We need to regroup. How does our moral obligation to save the world affect us these days, in these times?
I believe that there is something archaic about America's being the policeman for the wrongs in the world. And in some important way there is something very odd, as we bomb Libya. I think that we seriously need to rethink the boundaries of our responsibilities and obligations to our allies and other nations.
I am definitely not for isolationism, but I do not think that what is going on in Libya is our obligation or responsibility. And I wish, just once, that someone would ask us, the average citizens of this country, what we think. Please.
Suzy Lowinger New York, March 21, 2011
To the Editor:
It is astounding to see so many Americans who have criticized our involvement in Iraq now enthusiastically supporting military action in Libya. If the justification is to save innocent civilian lives, Saddam Hussein was far more murderous.
Saddam Hussein had attacked Kuwait and threatened Saudi Arabia. Surely those actions threatened our own interests more than Libya's actions.
I support both military actions, though it is clear to me that many supporting President Obama now who vehemently opposed President Bush's Iraq offensive have taken those positions based purely on who was in the Oval Office.
Andrew O. Watson Amelia Island, Fla., March 21, 2011
To the Editor:
Attacks against the armed forces of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi will only intensify the desire of other nations to develop weapons of mass destruction to prevent an attack on their soil.
Does anyone seriously think that the bellicose and bombastic President Nicolas Sarkozy of France would have favored military intervention in Libya if Colonel Qaddafi had developed a nuclear deterrent with missiles targeted on Paris? Larry Vigon Chicago, March 21, 2011
To the Editor:
Western support for the popular eruptions in the Middle East is rooted in a hope that something genuinely singular is happening, that young idealists, having experienced the borderless freedom of the Internet, will lead their homelands away from corrupt tyrannies and toward pluralistic democracies.
If these reformers are overwhelmed by the malignant orthodoxies of the region, and tyrannies are replaced by other tyrannies, then the Western support will have proved naive. But it will have been worth the risk, given the stakes, and it might plant a seed of good will that germinates unexpectedly in some future Arab Spring. Bob Brussack Athens, Ga., March 21, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LULU WOLF) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



510 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SIDEBAR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Once in the Public's Hands, Now Back in Picasso's

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
Supreme Court arguments often concern not just the narrow issue in the case but also the implications of a ruling. You sometimes catch the justices squinting, trying to see over the legal horizon.
Nine years ago, for instance, the court heard arguments in a case about whether Congress was free to add 20 years of copyright protection for works that had not yet entered the public domain.
Several justices asked about a different and even tougher question: Was Congress also free to restore copyright protection to works that had entered the public domain and become public property? 
''If Congress tomorrow wants to give a copyright to a publisher solely for the purpose of publishing and disseminating Ben Jonson, Shakespeare, it can do it?'' Justice Stephen G. Breyer asked a lawyer for the government.
''It may,'' said the lawyer, Theodore B. Olson, who was United States solicitor general at the time. But he did not sound too sure.
A little later, Justice David H. Souter pressed Mr. Olson on the same point and elicited the concession that restoring a copyright presented a much harder case.
''There is a bright line there'' for ''something that has already gone into the public domain,'' Mr. Olson said.
Justice Souter seemed satisfied. ''If you don't throw out a line there,'' he said, ''then Ben Jonson certainly gets recopyrighted.''
The court ended up ruling, by a 7-to-2 vote in 2003 in Eldred v. Ashcroft, that extensions for works still under copyright are allowed.
This month, the court agreed to hear a case on the question Justices Breyer and Souter anticipated, one that will test whether there is indeed a constitutional line Congress may not cross when it comes to the public domain.
The new case asks whether Congress acted constitutionally in 1994 by restoring copyrights in foreign works that had belonged to the public, including films by Alfred Hitchcock and Federico Fellini, books by C. S. Lewis and Virginia Woolf, symphonies by Prokofiev and Stravinsky and paintings by Picasso, including ''Guernica.''
''The works that qualify for copyright restoration probably number in the millions,'' Marybeth Peters, the United States register of copyrights, said in 1996.
The plaintiffs in the new case, Golan v. Holder, are orchestra conductors, teachers and film archivists who say they had relied for years on the free availability of works in the public domain that they had performed, adapted and distributed.
The 1994 law, they told the justices, ''did something unprecedented in the history of American intellectual property law and constitutionally profound.''
Lawrence Golan, the lead plaintiff, teaches conducting at the University of Denver and is the music director and conductor of the Yakima Symphony Orchestra in Washington State. He said the 1994 law made it very difficult for smaller orchestras to play some seminal 20th-century works that had once been a standard part of their repertories.
''Once you own a Beethoven symphony, you own it till it falls apart,'' he said. ''That used to be the case with Stravinsky, Shostakovich and Prokofiev. Now an orchestra that wants to play, say, Shostakovich's Fifth has to rent it for $800 for one performance.''
He said he had no quarrel with providing financial incentives to people who create art. ''Obviously, current composers need to be encouraged to create their works, and they should be getting royalties,'' Mr. Golan said.
But he said withdrawing works from the public domain did great harm to the cultural life of small communities for no good reason.
That analysis, Mr. Golan's lawyers say, is consistent with the constitutional balance between property and speech. The Constitution authorizes Congress ''to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries.''
In other words, said Anthony T. Falzone of the Stanford Law School Center for Internet and Society, which represents the plaintiffs, the Constitution meant to create incentives, not monopolies. ''The whole point wasn't to protect stuff,'' he said. ''It was to encourage people to make stuff, and everybody's lost sight of that.''
The government counters that nothing in the 1994 law did damage to the constitutional structure or to free speech rights.
The government adds that the 1994 law applies to foreign works ''previously ineligible for protection or whose authors were unfamiliar with the technicalities of United States law.'' Every work brought back into copyright protection, the government says, ''expires on the same day as if the work had been protected since its creation.''
The federal appeals court in Denver, in upholding the law, said there were important First Amendment interests at stake on both sides. It concluded that there was reason to think that American authors and artists would be better off abroad if foreign authors and artists received expanded copyright protection here.
That economic calculation rankled Mr. Falzone. ''You're selling public property,'' he said. ''Congress literally took the public's property and handed it over to foreign copyright owners.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Picasso's ''Guernica'' at the Museo Reina Sofia in Madrid. It had entered the public domain, but a 1994 law now being challenged restored copyright protection to it and many other foreign works. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL WHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); LAWYERS (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (85%); PUBLISHING (76%); PAINTING (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); FILM HISTORY (66%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (61%); MUSIC (61%)

PERSON: DAVID SOUTER (78%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YAKIMA, WA, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (71%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



511 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Obama Cites Latin Americans as Example for Others

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Alexei Barrionuevo contributed reporting.

 BODY:
SANTIAGO, Chile -- With his first trip to South America eclipsed by war and upheaval in the Middle East and North Africa, President Obama sought to connect the two in a speech here on Monday, calling Latin America a model for those trying to throw off dictatorships in favor of democracy and broadly shared economic growth.
But at a news conference, he was asked by a Chilean journalist whether he also would ''ask for forgiveness'' on behalf of the United States for its part in the 1973 coup that brought Chile's former dictator, Gen. Augusto Pinochet, to power and for the ''open wounds'' that remain. Mr. Obama said that his administration would consider any requests for information as Chile seeks a truthful record of that period, but that neither country should be ''trapped by our history.'' 
Since that time, he added, ''We've seen extraordinary progress here in Chile, and that has not been impeded by the United States but, in fact, has been fully supported by the United States.''
''So I can't speak to all of the policies of the past,'' he said. ''I can speak certainly to the policies of the present and the future.''
At his side for the news conference was Chile's president, Sebastian Pinera, who as a wealthy businessman had been close to the Pinochet regime. Mr. Pinera, in his own remarks at the news conference, said that in his private meeting with Mr. Obama, ''We didn't go back into the past.''
Indeed, just as in his visit to Brazil over the weekend, Mr. Obama in his speech here -- to an elite audience that included Mr. Pinera, three former Chilean presidents, government ministers and diplomatic officials from around the region -- was forward-looking and upbeat in his assessment of the political and economic progress throughout Latin America, and of the region's growing economic ties with the United States. Those relations, he said, are now on an equal basis after a history of American paternalism.
''I know I'm not the first president from the United States to pledge a new spirit of partnership with our Latin American neighbors,'' he said in a speech that advisers called the keynote address of his five-day, three-nation trip to the region. ''Words are easy, and I know that there have been times where perhaps the United States took this region for granted.''
''Even now,'' he continued, ''I know our headlines are often dominated by events in other parts of the world.'' But, he added, ''The world must now recognize Latin America for the dynamic and growing region that it truly is.''
''Virtually all of the people of Latin America have gone from living under dictatorships to living in democracies,'' he said, citing not only Chile, but also Mexico, Brazil, Costa Rica, Uruguay, Paraguay and his final stop, on Tuesday and Wednesday, El Salvador.
Plainly tired after days of juggling public diplomacy with private deliberations about the military action in Libya, Mr. Obama said ''the lessons of Latin America'' could be ''a guide for people around the world who are beginning their own journeys toward democracy.''
''There's so much Latin America can now share: how to build political parties and organize free elections, how to ensure peaceful transfers of power, how to navigate the winding paths of reform and reconciliation,'' he said.
In pledging that the United States would be an equal partner in its relations with Latin America, Mr. Obama said that would, in turn, demand ''a sense of shared responsibility'' by the countries of Latin America.
He cited several areas to improve cooperation: in fighting criminal gangs and traffickers in drugs, guns and illegal immigrants; improving education and cultural exchange programs; ending trade barriers; developing clean-energy projects; and combating climate change, which, as both presidents noted, has increased the melting of glaciers in the Andes Mountains.
Mr. Obama also called on the nations in the hemisphere to support democratic rights. ''And, yes, that includes the people of Cuba,'' he said, raising a long-sore subject between the United States, which broke relations with Cuba a half-century ago, and Latin America, which is almost unanimous in opposing Washington's policy.
Saying his administration had worked for greater openness with the Cuban people, Mr. Obama said, ''I will make this effort to try to break out of this history that's now lasted for longer than I've been alive.''
But, he added, the Castro government ''must take some meaningful actions to respect the basic rights of their own people.''
In the United States, Mr. Obama rarely talks about Cuba policies, a volatile subject, particularly in vote-rich Florida with its influential anti-Castro Cuban-American population.
Mr. Obama's generally optimistic assessment of the region's effort against drug trafficking was notable, considering that the death toll in Mexico's drug war, about 34,000 over the last four years, is rising, while drug consumption in the United States remains high. On both sides of the border, many people have come to see the counternarcotics effort as failing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, on a five-day trip to Latin America, with Chile's president, Sebastian Pinera, on Monday in Santiago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (93%) CHILE (98%); LATIN AMERICA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011



512 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: An Author's View of a World 'Getting Better'

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: A conversation with Charles Kenny, who argues that gains in human well-being worldwide belie the gloomy view of Malthusian theory.

 BODY:
My column this week discusses "Getting Better," a new book in which the economist Charles Kenny argues that many people have overlooked the enormous improvements in human well-being over the last few decades. Mr. Kenny is a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development in Washington. Foreign Policy magazine, where Mr. Kenny is a contributing writer, recently organized a discussion of his book. He also wrote a recent article for Time on the world's youth.
Our conversation follows.
Mr. Kenny: Parson Malthus's miserable vision of the world was that each country's output was pretty much limited by the amount of land available. That meant if more kids were born, the same output was spread amongst more people -- so average incomes would fall. In turn, Malthus argued that would push up mortality as people died from malnutrition or famine or disease.
In Malthus's time, output worldwide was indeed pretty much static -- for most of history, global G.D.P. had expanded by much less than half a percent a year. But since then, output has exploded -- everywhere. Between 1960 and 2000, only one country worldwide -- the Democratic Republic of the Congo - saw G.D.P. growth slower than 0.5 percent per year, and only 11 countries saw output grow at less than 2 percent a year.And looking at African countries in particular, while populations have been rising, there is no significant link between population growth and income growth. Furthermore, population increases have been associated with better health, not increasing mortality -- between 1960 and 2005, the proportion of children in the region dying before their fifth birthday fell from 26 to 15 percent. So, the Malthusian trap is history in Africa as much as everywhere else.
Mr. Kenny: I think that's right as far as it goes. But a lot of factors are behind the rise -- weather, oil prices, growing demand for meat in middle income countries like China, ethanol subsidies in the U.S. and so on. And it isn't Malthusianism at work. The big problem isn't more mouths to feed, it is that a lot of the existing mouths want more meat, and we're using land to make fuel not food. Again, it isn't that we couldn't produce a lot more nutrition at the same price -- there's immense untapped potential to increase output using existing technologies in Africa, for example, and considerable inefficiency in the global food industry. We are far away from any natural limit to agricultural output, so the problem is one of policy, not immutable laws of biology or geography.
Mr. Kenny: Rich people consume more -- that's pretty much what being rich is all about. They live in larger houses, they have cars, they have multiple TVs, they fly around the planet, they use more water and electricity. So carbon dioxide output per head is really closely related to average incomes, for example. And doubling the income of the world's poorest 650 million people would take the same amount of money as adding 1 percent to the income of the world's richest 650 million people. So if we're worried about sustainability, we shouldn't be worried about population policy in Niger or Liberia, but in Manhattan and Monaco.

        
Making Choices 'as if the Future Matters'
        
Using Economics to Help the World's Poor
        
Why Success Starts With Failure
        
'The Big Thirst': The Future of Water
        
Dimming Optimism for Today's Youth

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (88%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (78%); MALNUTRITION (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); FAMINE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); ALCOHOLS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); MEATS (66%); BIOFUELS (61%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (61%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (61%); ETHANOL (61%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (50%) Book Chat; Charles Kenny; mortality; standards of living; sustainability; Thomas Robert Malthus; well-being; Poverty; Third World and Developing Countries; Kenny, Charles; Malthus, Thomas; Center for Global Development; Economix

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011



513 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Libya Crisis Thrusts U.S. Africa Command Into Leadership Role

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When the United States Africa Command was created four years ago, it was the military's first ''smart power'' command. It has no assigned troops and no headquarters in Africa itself, and one of its two top deputies is a seasoned American diplomat.
Indeed, the command, known as Africom, is intended largely to train and assist the armed forces of 53 African nations and to work with the State Department and other American agencies to strengthen social, political and economic programs in the region, including improving H.I.V. awareness in African militaries and removing land mines. 
Now the young, untested command and its new boss, Gen. Carter F. Ham, find themselves at their headquarters in Stuttgart, Germany, setting aside public diplomacy talks and other civilian-military duties to lead the initial phase of a complex, multinational shooting war with Libya.
''Are they up to the task?'' said Kenneth J. Menkhaus, an Africa specialist at Davidson College in North Carolina. ''So far, I'd say yes. Down the road, though, if it gets messier, it'll test the capacity of Africom. This is certainly a baptism by fire.''
The command has faced difficulties in its first few years. Initial statements about its mission and scope of activity alarmed some African leaders and State Department officials, who feared the Pentagon was trying to militarize diplomacy and development on the continent. These concerns led the command to set up its headquarters in Germany.
Congressional critics have warned that the command is understaffed and poorly resourced for challenges that include countering fighters with an affiliate of Al Qaeda in North Africa, Islamic extremists in Somalia, drug traffickers in West Africa and armed rebels in Congo. Other Congressional officials cast doubt on the command's ability to gauge progress in its programs.
''Africom is generally not measuring long-term effects of activities,'' concluded a report issued last July by the Government Accountability Office, an investigative arm of Congress. ''Without assessing activities, Africom lacks information to evaluate their effectiveness, make informed future planning decisions and allocate resources.''
Military officials say General Ham's arrival three weeks ago to replace Gen. William E. Ward, who retired, will inject new dynamism into the command and its 1,500-member headquarters staff. More than 1,000 other troops are conducting training, security assistance or other temporary duties in Africa at any given time.
General Ham, 59, a native of Cleveland, is one of the Army's stars, having risen from private to four-star commander in a 38-year career. He has commanded troops in northern Iraq, overseen military operations at the Pentagon's Joint Staff and helped lead reviews into the Defense Department's ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy and the fatal shootings at Fort Hood, Tex.
The son of a Navy PT boat officer in World War II, General Ham enlisted in the Army in 1973 as a paratrooper in the 82nd Airborne Division. After earning his officer commission, he served as an adviser to a Saudi Arabian National Guard brigade, commanded the Army's storied First Infantry Division and, until his current assignment, led all Army forces in Europe, when he worked closely with many of the same European allies now engaged in the Libya operation.
''He's inclusive and a great team builder,'' said Lt. Gen. Mark P. Hertling, who earlier this month succeeded General Ham in the Army's European command. ''He's not only a great soldier who studies his profession, he's the kind of normal guy you can drink a beer with.''
Perhaps General Ham's most wrenching tour was commanding American forces in northern Iraq as the insurgency was strengthening. On Dec. 21, 2004, a suicide bomber killed 22 people, including 18 Americans, in a dining hall at a military base in Mosul. General Ham arrived on the scene shortly after the explosion.
When he returned to Fort Lewis, Wash., a few months later, he sought help for post-traumatic stress, received counseling from a chaplain and later publicly discussed his treatment. ''You need somebody to assure you that it's not abnormal,'' General Ham told USA Today. ''It's not abnormal to have difficulty sleeping. It's not abnormal to be jumpy at loud sounds.''
General Ham's willingness to speak openly about his personal combat stress sent shock waves through a service in which seeking help has often been seen as a sign of weakness.
That plain-spoken attitude has earned plaudits from top Defense Department officials.
''During our 'don't ask, don't tell' review, he was our conscience and our center of gravity,'' said Jeh C. Johnson, the Pentagon's general counsel and co-author with General Ham of the department's report on the effects of allowing openly gay men and women to serve in the military. ''I always made sure never to get out ahead of him.''
For the time being, General Ham will oversee the American side of the Libya operations, briefing President Obama and his top security aides from Stuttgart, as he did on Sunday, and providing broad guidance and direction to the mission's tactical commander, Adm. Samuel J. Locklear III, who is in the Mediterranean aboard a command ship, the Mount Whitney.
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said on Sunday that the United States would turn control of the Libya military operation over to a coalition -- probably led either by the French and British or by NATO -- ''in a matter of days.'' But the American military would continue to fly missions.
General Ham, in an e-mail message on Sunday, said plans for the change in command were already under way. ''It's fairly complex to do that while simultaneously conducting operations,'' he said. ''But we'll figure it out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Carter F. Ham, far right, at the change of command ceremony for Africa Command on March 9, near Stuttgart, Germany. (POOL PHOTO BY MANDEL NGAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LANDMINES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); AL-QAEDA (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); SHOOTINGS (68%); RELIGION (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DAVIDSON COLLEGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); GERMANY (90%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



514 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: For the Poor, A Message Of Hope

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com; twitter.com/DLeonhardt

 BODY:
In the not too distant past -- 1980 -- one of every six babies born in the West African nation of Liberia died in infancy. Overall life expectancy was a mere 48 years. The great majority of Liberians couldn't read in 1980. Most girls had never attended school.
Over the last 30 years, infant mortality has fallen sharply, and life expectancy has jumped to 58 years. Most Liberians today can read. More than 80 percent of girls attend school. Politically, the country is much freer than it was in 1980, the year of a deadly coup.
Economically, however, Liberia has been the world's single worst performer over the last 30 years. Per capita income has fallen an astounding 80 percent, according to official World Bankstatistics, which makes the country an extreme example of Africa's long-running economic troubles. While people may debate the causes of those troubles -- corrupt and autocratic governments, feckless foreign aid, postcolonial hangover -- everyone seems to agree that Africa is a story of failure. 
But is it?
In a new book called ''Getting Better,'' Charles Kenny -- a British development economist based in Washington -- argues that the answer is absolutely not. Life in much of Africa and in most of the impoverished world has improved at an unprecedented clip in recent decades, even if economic growth hasn't.
''The biggest success of development,'' he writes, ''has not been making people richer but, rather, has been making the things that really matter -- things like health and education -- cheaper and more widely available.''
Money matters, of course. It goes a long way toward determining the quality of people's lives and their reported happiness. You can argue, as Mr. Kenny does, that the turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa stems in part from the contrast between economic stagnation and progress in education and health. People are no longer satisfied with the bare essentials.
But when Mr. Kenny and I spoke recently, he made a good case that the world had paid too much attention to economic numbers and ended up with some misleading caricatures as a result: China great, India good, Latin America mediocre, Africa bad.
In fact, life expectancy is longer, and has risen more lately, in Libya and Syria than in China. The average lifespan in Libya -- 74 years -- is now only four years behind that of the United States.
Among the seven major regions into which the World Bank divides the planet, life expectancy has grown more since 1980 in the Middle East and North Africa than anywhere else (12.2 years). South Asia has had the second biggest gain (9.6 years), Latin America (8.9 years) is third and East Asia fourth (8.1 years). Yemen -- the latest political hot spot -- has closed almost its entire longevity gap with India since just 1990, for example. Liberia has closed nearly half its gap with India over the same span.
The main reason is that health and well-being are cheaper than they used to be. Africa and large parts of Asia and Latin America remain abjectly poor. But they can often still afford antibiotics, immunizations and clean water. So even as African countries have fallen further behind economically, some have begun to catch up in other areas.
Just as important, their citizens, who are better educated than their ancestors and have far better access to information, often have the political power to demand better basic services. Compared with past decades, vastly more people today live under a political system that at least resembles democracy. It was only 40 years ago that women in Switzerland -- Switzerland! -- could not vote.
One caveat to Mr. Kenny's argument is that progress in Africa has slowed over the last decade or so, largely because of the scourge of H.I.V. And by any definition, the quality of health and education in sub-Saharan Africa remains horribly low.
Several countries there still have a life expectancy of only about 45 years. By comparison, life expectancy in the Stone Age was about 34 years, notes Gregory Clark, the University of California, Davis economist who wrote ''A Farewell to Alms,'' an economic history of the world.
''Despite the creation 60 or more years ago of cheap medical interventions that can dramatically reduce infant mortality and despite considerable medical aid and assistance from the rich countries,'' Mr. Clark told me, ''the poorest countries in Africa have advanced life expectancy 10 years from conditions in 200,000 B.C.''
Mr. Kenny responds that H.I.V. is akin to a modern plague. The fact that sub-Saharan Africa has made even modest progress while battling the plague is remarkable. Much of the rest of the world, meanwhile, continues to make great progress on health, education, infrastructure and even human rights.
He is certainly right that people often overlook this progress and instead believe that global misery is intractable. ''The strongest argument against a moral imperative to act,'' as Mr. Kenny says, ''is that we are powerless to make things better.'' Clearly, we aren't powerless. The real question is not whether foreign aid and local government programs can work -- it's which programs work and which do not.
The most hopeful part of Mr. Kenny's hopeful message is that progress in health, education and human rights may ultimately bring economic progress as well. He is cautious on this point, noting that economists have failed time and time again to come up with consistent explanations for economic growth.
But African growth has accelerated over the last decade, and the acceleration followed improvements in education and other basics. It's true that Africa's growth is unimpressive compared with the Asian miracle, but the growth is still the most rapid in Africa's recorded history. Perhaps those investments in Africa's people needed time to produce returns.
As I read ''Getting Better,'' I couldn't help but think of some parallels with life in the United States. Our own economic growth has been disappointing for much of the last four decades. Over that same period, though, other aspects of American life have improved enormously. A large majority of Americans experience far less discrimination today -- be it discrimination based on sex, race, religion or sexual orientation -- than they would have 40 years ago. For most people, life was not better in the fondly remembered 1950s and 1960s.
In the aftermath of the global recession, with rich countries growing slowly, poor countries struggling with high food prices, and Japan coping with a genuine disaster, it is easy to focus on the world's economic problems. Those problems are real, and most governments are not doing enough to respond to them.
But it's also worth taking a few minutes to think about the lessons from the recent successes. The gains in health and education over the last few decades have been unprecedented for much of the world. And there is reason to hope that healthier, better educated people are ultimately less willing to accept autocracy or economic stagnation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The economist Charles Kenny, author of ''Getting Better.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY F. CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 School children in Liberia. Infant mortality has fallen while literacy is now widespread. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE OSODI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) GRAPHICS: Life Expectancy and G.D.P. Growth: The countries that have grown the fastest over the last three decades have not always been the ones with the biggest gains in life expectancy. For example, in the Middle East, which had relatively modest growth of 29 percent for the period, life expectancy increased by 12.2 years. (Source: The World Bank: World Development Indicators) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); WOMEN (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INFANT MORTALITY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBERIA (96%); AFRICA (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); SYRIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



515 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Embraced 100 Years Ago, a Style Endures

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
5:04 p.m. Updated One hundred years after the Triangle Waist Company fire, the fashion that employed small armies of seamstresses at the turn of the last century endures.
The American shirtwaist was a trend that, quite literally, had legs. This brash but sensible pairing of tailored shirt and skirt offered a glimpse of the ankles, which was as rare in its day as it was freeing.
Designed for utility, the style was embraced at the turn of the 20th century by legions of young women who preferred its hiked hemline and unfettered curves to the confining, street-sweeping dresses that had hobbled their mothers and aunts.
Few looks have been as versatile - or as egalitarian - adapting through the decades to all sorts of shifting conditions and sociopolitical landscapes. 
And few have so nimbly walked the line between function and frivolity.
By 1911 the Triangle factory, a half-block east of Washington Square Park, was the largest maker of waists in New York City. Pressed elbow to elbow at the factory, in Greenwich Village, hundreds of women, working 12 to 16 hours six days a week, earned $5 a week or less to help dress Americans in the white, gauzy blouses -- also called shirtwaists -- that when worn with a skirt completed the look.
In the last minutes of the work week, on Saturday, March 25, 1911, a match or a cigarette tossed into a waste basket ignited a fire that fed on the scraps of cloth and paper patterns hanging overhead. The blaze swept through the factory -- the 8th, 9th and 10th floors of the 10-story building -- within a half-hour, leaving 146 dead, all but 23 of them young women. About 50 jumped to their deaths to escape the relentless flames.
As hundreds of events this week mark the 100th anniversary of the fire on Friday, the shirtwaist style has proved its remarkable staying power.
Democratic from its inception, the shirtwaist was ''one of America's first truly class-shattering fashions,'' wrote David Von Drehle, who briefly outlined its history in ''Triangle: The Fire That Changed America'' (Atlantic Monthly Press, 2003).
The practical uniform of factory hands, clerks, shopkeepers and librarians, it ''both symbolized and enabled a wave of women's liberation,'' Mr. Von Drehle argued, the ''perfect repudiation of corsets and bustles and hoops - all the ludicrous contraptions that literally imprisoned women in their own clothes.''
The earliest shirtwaists -- originally shirts and separate skirts -- were engineered for mobility, their popularity coinciding with a huge urbanization that saw women rushing about the streets, demanding the vote and, ultimately, flooding the workforce.
By 1910, when the entire American population was only 90 million, more than 5 million women held jobs outside the home. At that time, as Mr. Von Drehle noted, nearly a third of all factory workers in New York State were women, the majority dressed in a shirtwaist and skirt.
Shirtwaists flourished in the early 1900s as a badge of confidence and athletic femininity, the sporty attire of the Gibson Girl. They attained a touch of worldliness in the late 1940s when Christian Dior introduced a version, propped up by petticoats, as an essential component of his fabled New Look.
By midcentury, calf-length interpretations of the Dior shirtwaist represented domesticity to a generation of homemakers taking their style cues from Donna Reed. More recently, this sturdy fashion archetype was resurrected on ''Mad Men,'' the popular television series set in the 1950s and '60s, inspiring a wave of nostalgic revivals on American fashion runways.
The look traveled well, as popular on the playing field as it was in more formal settings. As the fashion historian Caroline Rennolds Milbank observed in ''New York Fashion: The Evolution of American Style'' (Abrams, 1989), the dress ''was suitable for working women and college students, for street wear and lunching in a restaurant, and also for golf, tennis, boating and other summer sports.''
In the early 1900s, ''waists,'' as these comfort-driven shirts were known, were turned out by the thousands in steamy tenement rooms and factories like that of the Triangle Waist Company in Greenwich Village. In later versions combining top and skirt, they thrived as the practical uniform of women working on assembly lines, as bookkeepers and clerks, as seamstresses and even as factory foremen.
Buttoned-up as it was, the shirtwaist could flirt. There is nothing more coquettish in the summer than ''a crisp-looking shirtwaist of taffeta,'' proclaimed The Chicago Daily Tribune in 1903. Society scribes liked its standardized look. ''If a man can wear the same general-type shirt all day why can't a woman do the same?'' Amos Parrish pointedly inquired in The Schenectady Gazette in the spring of 1934.
By the 1950s, the trend had extended its reach to every level of the marketplace, from Saks Fifth Avenue to Sears.
Style setters lent it an unassailable chic. Grace Kelly wore a version in beige silk - subsequently christened the ''To Catch a Prince'' - when she and Prince Rainier of Monaco announced their engagement a few months before their marriage in 1956.
The following year the shirtwaist became, without willing it, an emblem of stoic resistance. ''Of all the images of the civil rights movement, one of the most chilling is a photo of a black teenager in a shirtwaist dress and sunglasses,'' Andrea Stone wrote in a 2007 USA Today article commemorating the desegregation crisis at Little Rock Central High School.
In the early 1970s, the shirtwaist was given a shot in the arm by Halston, whose streamlined, one-style-suits-all adaptation was issued in machine-washable Ultrasuede.
The bread and butter of his line, it achieved best-seller status, engendering a raft of knockoffs for the better part of the decade and continuing even now to inspire designers who have tweaked it for a modern eye.
The fashion equivalent of comfort food, recent incarnations derive their appeal from an economic climate that favors reliable standards over the showy and the new.
Yet designers have played fast and loose with a formula built on cinched waists, roomy skirts and mannishly tailored placket fronts. In their spring shows, some riffed on the shirtwaist, offering versions in leather. Others toyed with skewed waistlines and fluttery kimono sleeves, placing their own quirky stamp on this trusted American classic.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 25, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Wednesday with an article about the history of the shirtwaist misstated the name of a model shown in a black dress. She was Tania, and she modeled for Chez Dior; her name was not ''Tania Chez Dior.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The cast of ''The Donna Reed Show.'' By midcentury, the shirtwaist came to represent domesticity.
The French model Tania Chez Dior. In the 1940s, Christian Dior introduced a version as an essential component of his fabled New Look
A 1972 shirtwaist by the designer Halston, made in Ultrasuede.(A21)
 In 1957 in Little Rock, Ark., the shirtwaist became a symbol of stoical resistance in a battleground over segregation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILL COUNTS/ARKANSAS DEMOCRAT-GAZETTE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (75%); HIKING (75%); WORK WEEK (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (62%); URBANIZATION (60%); RETAILERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



516 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: German Court Rules Against Deutsche Bank

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and CHRIS V. NICHOLSON; Jack Ewing reported from Frankfurt and Chris V. Nicholson from Paris.

 BODY:
3:29 p.m. Updated
FRANKFURT - In a potentially far-reaching decision, Germany's highest appeals court ruled on Tuesday that Deutsche Bank must compensate a small-business customer for losses incurred as a result of an interest-rate swap.
The decision could raise the liability of German banks for the complicated financial products they sell and affect other banks doing business in the country. 
Representatives of plaintiffs in similar suits immediately praised the decision by the Federal Court of Justice in Karlsruhe.
''We are overjoyed,'' said Andrea Hermesmeier, general counsel for the city of Pforzheim in southern Germany, which is suing JPMorgan Chase in a Frankfurt court for some 57 million euros in losses from a swap transaction. ''It certainly sets a precedent,'' she said.
While the direct legal ramifications are limited to Germany, the Deutsche Bank case focuses attention on billions of dollars of exotic financial products that banks sold to customers in many countries, including the United States, who later experienced severe losses.
Swaps were often marketed as ways for businesses or communities to minimize interest payments, but the bank customers either underestimated or were not fully informed about the huge sums they could lose if financial markets went in the wrong direction.
The Federal Court of Justice concluded that Deutsche Bank had failed to adequately warn its customer, a supplier of paper products, about the risks of the transaction, known as a CMS Spread Ladder Swap. In addition, the swap was rigged against the customer so that Deutsche Bank would be able to resell its side of the transaction to other investors, the court said.
The bank ''deliberately designed the risk structure of the transaction to the disadvantage of the client, in order to immediately resell the risk at a profit,'' the court said in a summary of the decision, which reversed a ruling by a lower court.
The decision against Deutsche Bank, which found that the bank had a ''grave conflict of interest,'' was reminiscent of accusations last year that Goldman Sachs fraudulently sold a mortgage security to customers just as cracks appeared in the housing market. That security, called Abacus 2007-AC1, allowed a prominent hedge fund manager, John A. Paulson, to place a bet against mortgage bonds.
One of the customers in the Goldman case was IKB Deutsche Industriebank, a German bank that required a taxpayer bailout. Goldman settled a civil complaint filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission in the Abacus case last year for $550 million.
Similar cases around the world, involving local governments like Jefferson County, Ala., or the city of Milan, have prompted courts and lawmakers to crack down on the way banks market swap transactions.
''This market was the wild west,'' said Peter Shapiro, managing director of the Swap Financial Group in South Orange, N.J., which advises communities, companies and other swap customers. ''It was not regulated, it was a buyer-beware market.''
''It's going from wild west to heavily policed,'' Mr. Shapiro said, noting that Congress last year imposed regulations on the way banks sell swap products.
The suit decided Tuesday was one of 25 similar cases pending against Deutsche Bank, said a bank spokesman, Ronald Weichert, including eight at the Federal Court of Justice. The bank's maximum exposure from the suits would be substantially less than 100 million euros, he said.
''We will carefully review the written reasons for the judgment,'' Deutsche Bank said in a statement. ''Only then will it be possible to determine whether and to what extent this affects other financial transactions.''
The bank does not plan to appeal in this case, Mr. Weichert said.
But Michael Schick of Rossner Rechtsanwalte, a Munich law firm that represented the Deutsche Bank customer, said that the decision set a high standard for the information that banks should have supplied to customers and could open the door to hundreds of complaints against Deutsche Bank and other institutions.
Virtually all of Germany's commercial banks, as well as some government-owned Landesbanks, sold swap products, whose total value was estimated at about 1 billion euros, he said.
''This is a fundamental decision,'' Mr. Schick said. ''There will be more complaints coming.''
The Deutsche Bank customer, Ille Papier Service, which supplies products like paper-towel dispensers to businesses, put its losses from the transaction at 541,000 euros ($769,000). The swaps had a negative market value of 80,000 euros on the day of the transaction, the court said, a fact that Deutsche Bank did not disclose to the customer.
''We never thought we could win this 'David vs. Goliath' battle,'' Wilhelm Blatz, founder of Ille Papier, said in a statement. The company is based in the town of Altenstadt, about 20 miles from Frankfurt.
Marion Gottschalk, managing partner at Ille Papier and the daughter of Mr. Blatz, said the company bought the swaps in 2005 after declining to purchase them from a Deutsche Bank representative on several previous occasions.
The bank told the company that the swaps were a way to pay less interest than it had up until then, Ms. Gottschalk said.
Ms. Gottschalk said her father told the bank representative he did not understand the product, but would buy it on trust, since he had been advised by Deutsche Bank for 10 years.
A spokesman for the Association of German Banks, Volker Knauer, said the group would not be able to judge the wider impact of the case until the court issues a full written decision, which is not expected for several weeks.
Ms. Hermesmeier, the lawyer for the city of Pforzheim, said that while there were differences among the cases, the court's assessment of a bank's responsibility to inform clients seemed to apply widely. A spokesman for JPMorgan in Frankfurt, Axel Ludeke, said he could not comment on the legal complaint suit against the bank by the city.
Pforzheim had previously suffered losses from a swap transaction with Deutsche Bank, and is in settlement talks, Ms. Hermesmeier said. Even without the swaps losses Pforzheim has been struggling because its jewelry industry, once world famous, has largely migrated to Asia and undercut the tax base, she said.
''It will add to the structural problems we already had,'' Ms. Hermesmeier said. ''We have no reserves anymore. We have to start thinking about cuts in services.''
Jack Ewing reported from Frankfurt, and Chris V. Nicholson from Paris.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Deutsche Bank must compensate a business for losses on an interest-rate swap. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RALPH ORLOWSKI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); APPEALS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LAWYERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BONDS (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); SECURITIES LAW (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); IKB DEUTSCHE INDUSTRIEBANK AG (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



517 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: RECENTLY REVIEWED

BYLINE: By SAM SIFTON, OLIVER STRAND and JULIA MOSKIN

 BODY:
AI FIORI
The Setai Hotel, 400 Fifth Avenue (37th Street), Midtown;
(212) 613-8660.
Here at long last is a winning new defense of fine dining. Opened late last year by the chef Michael White, Ai Fiori is an emphatic rejoinder to the trend toward farmhouse tables, rustic food and shouting that has so dominated the dining scene in Manhattan, at least since the start of the recession.
It is not really a beautiful restaurant, and the service is not quite formal enough for it to qualify as truly fancy, either. But the dinner menu, under the supervision of Chris Jaeckle, is a soulful amalgamation of French technique and Italian passion, executed with great skill. This works out well for everyone: Ai Fiori is one of the best restaurants to open in New York in the last 12 months. With its $79 four-course prix fixe, it also provides one of the best values. (Reviewed 
Feb. 23, ---) SAM SIFTON
BEST PIZZA
33 Havemeyer Street (North Seventh Street), Williamsburg, Brooklyn; (718) 599-2210,
best.piz.za.com.
Best Pizza and its wood-burning oven have been entrusted to Frank Pinello, a 28-year-old Culinary Institute of America graduate who prefers ''pizza man'' to ''pizzaiolo.'' The menu is scribbled on white paper plates tacked to the wall. You have to scan to find the one that lists the chicken parm, which is in the same lofty category as the restaurant's garlic knots. The oil from the chicken soaks into the bread with the marinara sauce so that it becomes a gooey, crispy, meaty mess held together by the charred crust. There's no easy way to eat it. The sloppiness is what elevates it. ($25 and Under, March 9.) OLIVER STRAND
COMPOSE
77 Worth Street (Broadway),
TriBeCa; (212) 226-1444,
composenyc.com.
On paper, Compose sounds absurd: a little-known chef opens a luxurious restaurant with a mandatory 10-course $120 tasting menu served to no more than 20 people a night. It makes sense only once you are in its embrace. Each course is just a few bites, painstakingly composed: a baked potato the size of a peanut M & M, with creme fraiche, lemon zest and domestic caviar; slivers of raw fluke with rock salt, herbs and smoked grape. Sometimes Compose is artful to the point of silliness. Yet when the food tastes this good, this preciousness becomes entirely tolerable. (Dining Briefs, March 16) JULIA MOSKIN
RED ROOSTER HARLEM
310 Lenox Avenue (125th Street), Harlem; (212) 792-9001,
redroosterharlem.com.
New Yorkers are accustomed to diversity on sidewalks and subways, in jury pools and in line at the bank. But in our restaurants, as in our churches and nightclubs, life is often more monochromatic. Not so at Red Rooster Harlem, which the chef Marcus Samuelsson opened in December.
This is perhaps the only restaurant in the city to serve, alongside corn bread and pickles, both cauliflower sauteed with black vinegar and Jamaican beef patties served with Mexican salsa verde. Mr. Samuelsson is a constant presence, politely cooking, wading through well-wishers and signing autographs, greeting politicians, old friends, celebrities and neighborhood families as if the groups were interchangeable: different, but all welcome and somehow the same.
(March 9, --) SAM SIFTON
VERITAS
43 East 20th Street, Gramercy; (212) 353-3700, veritas-nyc.com.
Twelve years into its run, Veritas reopened in November with a warm, pendant-lighted design and a new chef, Sam Hazen, who introduced a tightly focused, extremely flavorful a la carte menu of aggressively American cooking. The sommelier Ruben Sanz Ramiro matches the treasures of a vast cellar to it with both an eye toward value and a firm understanding of glee. The long bar bustles with wine geeks, and regulars cram the wine-bottle-lined hallway near the restrooms to compare notes on Chateauneuf-du-Papes and Mr. Hazen's maple-brined pork. Now without tablecloths or pretense, Veritas has become a sophisticated, enjoyable restaurant. (March 16, ---) SAM SIFTON
Restaurants reviewed in the Dining Briefs and $25 and Under columns are not given stars.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CALL HIM 'PIZZA MAN': Best Pizza in Williamsburg. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (77%); MENU PRICES (75%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



518 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH, SUSANNE CRAIG and AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
NO 'BASHING' The French economy minister said it was futile to continue castigating bankers for their role in the financial crisis, arguing that attention should shift to making sure that banks returned to their core role of financing growth. 
''It's time for accountability from everybody, not for bashing,'' the economy minister, Christine Lagarde, above, said at a banking conference in Paris on Tuesday. MATTHEW SALTMARSH
MOVING TO MEDIATION The brokerage firm Securities America has agreed to meet with a mediator in an effort to resolve hundreds of potentially costly arbitration claims.
On Monday, the various parties filed a notice of mediation in a Dallas federal court. Securities America, a division of Ameriprise Financial, and plaintiff lawyers are trying to deal with hundreds of millions of dollars in claims stemming from broker's sale of two private placements, Medical Capital and Medical Capital Holdings and Provident Royalties. Both turned out to be frauds. SUSANNE CRAIG
SHEDDING A STAKE The Man Group, the world's largest publicly traded alternative asset manager, will sell its 25 percent stake in BlueCrest Capital back to the hedge fund for $633 million.
The sale, which will deliver before-tax profit of about $250 million for Man, comes just a year after Man's merger with GLG Partners, a union that created a $63 billion fund that in some respects created an overlap with BlueCrest. The sale ''allows us to continue developing our core investment business,'' said Man's chief executive, Peter Clarke, above. AZAM AHMED
CONSIDERING A BID The buyout firm Leonard Green & Partners is weighing a possible acquisition of BJ's Wholesale Club, the company said in a securities filing on Tuesday.
BJ's announced last month that it was exploring a sale of the company and had hired Morgan Stanley to run the sale.
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (76%); MERGERS (76%); DIVESTITURES (74%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (63%)

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (70%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); MAN GROUP PLC (56%); LEONARD GREEN & PARTNERS LP (54%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (53%)

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (70%); MS (NYSE) (58%); EMG (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (70%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (53%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%); PETER CLARKE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



519 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Appropriations Chief Spends Less and Cuts More

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Representative Harold Rogers toiled on the House Appropriations Committee for 28 years, using the plum assignment to ship tens of millions of federal dollars back home for projects in his rural Kentucky district.
This year Mr. Rogers, a Republican, achieved his dream of becoming chairman of the panel. It has been the domain of legendary pols who ladled out federal money as they pleased and rolled over Congressional leaders and lawmakers with the temerity to question how things were done in the committee's inner sanctum.
But spending is now a dirty word among Republicans, and the Appropriations Committee ground zero, in the view of conservatives, for fiscal excess. As a result, the job Mr. Rogers won when his party took control of the House this year has suddenly morphed from dispensing largess to choking it off. 
''I ran to be head chef, but I wound up taking charge of the latrines,'' said Mr. Rogers, 73, whose panel's members now sometimes refer to it as the Disappropriations Committee.
''And that's not a bad thing,'' said Representative Jack Kingston of Georgia, a senior Republican on the panel, who said he was glad to see the days of free-flowing federal dollars come to an end.
It is a monumental shift, so much so that the two recent stopgap spending bills that have kept the government open during the current budget fight are the first committee measures in recent memory to cut rather than increase federal outlays. Mr. Rogers and his fellow Republicans on the committee -- lawmakers who took part in the spending spree that drove up the deficit -- say they are embracing their changed role.
''There is unanimity around the proposition that we need to cut spending, cut the deficit and have vigorous oversight of the federal agencies,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''It has been a remarkable change in the attitude of the voting public that has manifested itself in the House as a whole. Our mind has been focused.''
Not everyone on the panel shares the new mind-set.
''I got on this committee because it was the committee that built,'' said Representative Jose E. Serrano, a New York Democrat and longtime member of the panel, who said Republicans were going overboard. ''Now, it is the committee that is charged with tearing down.''
Courtly and old-school down to his appreciation for cigars, Mr. Rogers is known as a hard-nosed negotiator who used his clout to direct money for roads and flood-control projects back to Kentucky and to finance programs to combat widespread prescription-drug abuse in his district. As chairman of the subcommittee that controlled domestic security spending, he went to great lengths to make sure the nation's intensified anti-terror efforts contributed to the economy in communities like Corbin, Ky.
According to the watchdog group Taxpayers for Common Sense, Mr. Rogers secured Congressional earmarks for favored projects valued at more than $240 million from 2008 to 2010, ranking him 19th in the House.
Now, Mr. Rogers is the chief enforcer of the ban against earmarks instituted by House Republicans. As for the role he and other lawmakers played in spreading the red ink, the congressman compared the situation to a family that gets in too deep on its credit cards.
''Before you know it, you are in trouble,'' he said. ''The size of the problem, the depth of the hole we are in was not obvious, frankly, until very recently. The first step to getting out of the hole is to stop digging. We are trying to stop digging.''
The chairman, like others on the committee, was quick to note that the discretionary part of the federal budget that the committee oversees is not the root cause of a deficit that is being driven by rising spending on social programs like Medicare. ''If you zeroed out everything we do on appropriations, we would still be heavily in debt,'' he said.
While top members of the Appropriations Committee were once seen as independent powers able to buck the leadership, Mr. Rogers -- who won a three-way race for the chairmanship -- is taking direction from above when it comes to cuts in spending.
He said Speaker John A. Boehner ''gives general broad directions'' as to the target the committee has to reach, ''but it is up to us to do the details.''
Control over those details still gives Mr. Rogers considerable power and influence as the committee sets priorities in spending legislation. In assembling the spending cuts, Mr. Rogers said he insisted that there be no ''sacred cows'' protected from the budget knife and that all agencies shared in reductions. The panel did take some of its deepest cuts from areas where Democrats had increased spending in recent years, like the Environmental Protection Agency and energy programs.
None of the top Republican House leaders has ever served on the committee, and they are leery of it, seeing it as a major contributor to excessive spending in recent years. In a sign of their view of the panel, early this year they stripped the committee of its prime space off the House floor, and its balcony overlooking the mall, though they relented and allowed Mr. Rogers to keep a corner for his office.
Despite the tension, senior Republicans say the leadership has so far been pleased with the willingness of Mr. Rogers and other veteran Republicans who run the subcommittees, the vaunted ''cardinals,'' to identify the savings that the rank-and-file is demanding. It was somewhat grudging at first.
In early February, Mr. Rogers delivered a blueprint for about $35 billion in cuts for the remainder of the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30. But he warned that going deeper would be disruptive to the federal government and could, for instance, idle air-traffic controllers one day a week. The leadership, under fire to do more, sent Mr. Rogers back to the cutting room, and he returned with essentially double the reductions. The two stopgap bills already passed trimmed $10 billion.
But the current push is just the beginning. The committee is preparing for the 2012 budget and, in contrast to recent years, plans to put 12 spending bills on the House floor later this year and open them up for debate.
Despite the changed mission, Mr. Rogers is reveling in the role and still has a major say in how hundreds of billions of dollars will be dispensed. How he performs will be a measure of how the new majority is judged.
''It is not a bad job,'' he said. ''The entire Republican agenda is going to go through the Appropriations Committee.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Harold Rogers in his office on Capitol Hill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROPRIATIONS (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (73%); FLOOD CONTROL (69%); TERRORISM (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%)

PERSON: HAROLD ROGERS (91%); JOSE E SERRANO (58%); JACK KINGSTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



520 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: A New York Rabbi Known as an Innovator Is Chosen to Lead Reform Judaism

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
Reform Judaism, facing a recent decline in numbers and an uncertain future despite its stature as the largest movement in American Jewry, announced on Tuesday that its next president would be a rabbi known for rejuvenating his suburban New York congregation.
Rabbi Richard Jacobs, who has been senior rabbi at the Westchester Reform Temple in Scarsdale, N.Y., is set to become the president in 2012 of the Union for Reform Judaism, which claims 1.5 million members and nearly 900 synagogues. Previous presidents, among them Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, have been known not only as Jewish leaders, but also civic leaders in American life and politics. 
Rabbi Jacobs, 55, will succeed Rabbi Eric Yoffie, 63, who served for 16 years and sought to revitalize liberal Reform Judaism by returning to tradition. Rabbi Yoffie encouraged adults to study Torah, rabbis to improve their worship services and everyone to observe Shabbat.
Rabbi Jacobs is a former dancer and choreographer who traveled to Haiti after the earthquake and to Chad to meet refugees from Darfur. He recently built a new ''green synagogue,'' equipped with a solar-powered ner tamid, or eternal light, in the sanctuary. He pioneered new methods of involving families in Shabbat programs.
''If synagogues are going to engage the next generation,'' Rabbi Jacobs said in an interview with a few reporters on Tuesday, ''they're going to have to leave their walls.'' He said that most temples rely on a ''please walk in, please walk in'' approach, which no longer works. Synagogues need to serve even those Jews who are not members, he said.
Rabbi Jacobs grew up in a large suburban temple in Tustin, Calif., and said that Hebrew school there left him alienated. He said he came to appreciate Jewish culture and spirituality at a Reform summer camp, and advocates camp as a way of ''enculturating'' Judaism.
''He's the most widely respected senior congregational rabbi in the Reform movement,'' said Steven M. Cohen, a sociologist of American Jewry at Hebrew Union College - Jewish Institute of Religion, in New York, a Reform affiliate. ''His last two predecessors did not come directly from senior congregational roles, suggesting that the movement is concerned about delivering change, value and transformation to Reform congregations.''
Mr. Cohen said that Reform synagogues lost members in the last two years because paying dues became hard in the economic downturn. Synagogues in turn sent less money to the union headquarters, which reportedly laid off as many as 60 employees. But Mr. Cohen said that until recently, the Reform movement's numbers were holding steady, while Conservative Judaism has experienced a more significant dropoff.
Rabbi Jacobs was among a ''rump group''of 18 rabbis of large congregations who recently called for ''urgent change'' in the Reform movement, said Jane Eisner, editor of The Forward, a Jewish weekly newspaper. The group criticized the union as unwieldy, lacking in excellence and underperforming in fund-raising.
Ms. Eisner said of Rabbi Jacobs, ''On one hand it was brilliant to bring him into the power structure, but on the other hand there were also rabbis that didn't agree with those criticisms or felt left out.''
Some Reform leaders said they were optimistic about the succession. Rabbi Ellen Weinberg Dreyfus of Homewood, Ill., the president of the Central Conference of American Rabbis, the Reform movement's rabbinic organization, said: ''He really knows how to transform an organization, which he's done at his synagogue very successfully. And he can do so without creating a revolution that would produce a counterrevolution.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rabbi Richard Jacobs of Westchester Reform Temple in Scarsdale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (96%); RELIGION (95%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); LIBERALISM (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); DANCERS (68%); SOLAR ENERGY (66%); CHOREOGRAPHY (53%); REFUGEES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



521 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'GHETTO KLOWN'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: A Queens Guy Toughs It Out In Hollywood

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
At 46, an age when many men are tempted to flee the treadmill and hoist the white flag in the battle against middle-age spread, John Leguizamo still appears to have the energy of a 12-year-old who has just downed a Red Bull and a jumbo package of Twinkies.
In his latest Broadway solo show, ''Ghetto Klown,'' which opened on Tuesday night at the Lyceum Theater, the toned and trim Mr. Leguizamo bops, boogies and break-dances across the stage and even up the aisles as he recounts his rollicking subway ride from obscurity in Queens to celebrity in Hollywood and New York. His pliant, expressive face and rubbery limbs are in virtually nonstop motion for two acts and almost two and a half hours.
But while the mysterious sources of Mr. Leguizamo's boundless energy show no signs of imminent depletion, the writing in this, his fifth solo show over the course of two decades, is beginning to show traces of flab. ''Ghetto Klown,'' directed by Fisher Stevens, is enlivened by substantial doses of Mr. Leguizamo's brash, impish humor, the twisted showboating of a grown-up kid who knows he should stop cracking jokes but keeps doing it anyway. 
And yet a fair amount of the richest material -- his tortured history as the son of a disappointed father who viewed his ambitions with a blend of indifference and envy -- will be familiar to those who have seen his earlier shows. (His two previous Broadway outings were ''Freak'' in 1998 and ''Sexaholix'' in 2001.) Mr. Leguizamo's stories of scrambling to forge a career in the ruthless economy of Hollywood, meanwhile, allow him to flash his prowess as an impressionist, but they don't bring much fresh insight into the workings of that exhaustively anatomized world.
The spine of ''Ghetto Klown'' is the trajectory of Mr. Leguizamo's show business career, from his first public performance in the conductor's booth of a subway car to his renown as one of just a handful of successful Latino actors with a national profile. Stories of the hard-won highs and the dispiriting lows are woven together with anecdotes about how his increasing fame and career focus troubled the hardly placid waters of his relationships with his immigrant parents, his girlfriends and wives (two) and his best pal from the block.
The hyperactive John of the early years remains an irresistible character. Mr. Leguizamo's re-enactments of the antic misbehavior that earned him attention both desired (a high school teacher sends him to an acting coach) and not (that subway stunt lands him in jail) are among the liveliest passages in the show.
Mr. Leguizamo's embittered father, who glowers with disgust at his son's exposure of his feelings and his need for attention, also remains a potent source of dismally funny stories. ''Don't be a sucker like Jesus,'' he tells John. ''Do what I do. Keep it inside.''
The young John burns with the urge to turn private frustration and pain into public performance, and he gradually acquires an acting coach (''Tweety,'' she's called, for her sparse white hair); gains an audience with the venerable Lee Strasberg; and lands an agent, or rather two: a stuttering old-school gent and his coke-snorting son.
Mr. Leguizamo is hilarious on the subject of his first television gig, as a Colombian cocaine prince on ''Miami Vice.'' Slides from the episode attest to his odd pallor, the result of misbegotten advice from his beloved grandfather: ''Only white Latinos make it to Telemundo,'' Gramps tells him. ''Stay out of the sun. Walk on the shaded side of the street. Don't even eat dark food.''
His first major movie, Brian De Palma's ''Casualties of War,'' brings a choice story of Sean Penn's intensity: a scene requires him to slap Mr. Leguizamo at full force for take after take; naturally, it all ends up on the cutting room floor.
But as ''Ghetto Klown'' begins to meander between stories of Mr. Leguizamo's key career breaks and the love troubles that attend them, you begin to wish that a prudent editor had been on hand to give more cogent shape to the writing. Tales of relationships undone by neglect and the pressures of a high-profile career are hardly novel, after all. The show's energy stalls when Mr. Leguizamo slides from sharply funny satirical highs to puddles of banal confession about self-esteem problems and his inability truly to connect.
''I opened up to her because she was so vulnerable,'' Mr. Leguizamo recalls of his second wife, whom he met when she worked in the costume department on the film ''Carlito's Way.'' ''I'd never felt I could really be my whole self with anyone. And she told me she felt she's been waiting to exist her whole life.''
It's nice that Mr. Leguizamo is ultimately able to work through his issues with intimacy and establish a family, but ''Ghetto Klown'' continues to lose altitude throughout much of the second act, as we begin to feel that we are simply attending a narrated slide presentation of his professional highlights and personal pratfalls. The impersonations of some of his more prickly co-workers -- a humorless Kurt Russell, a pompous Steven Seagal, a bellowing Al Pacino -- are pointed and precise, but perhaps a director who was not also an actor, as Mr. Stevens is, might have evinced less interest in the more unexceptional passages about the performer's life. (But the digression about his flop television show ''House of Buggin' '' is almost worth it for its hilarious ''West Side Story'' spoof shown on the billboard-sized video screen that dominates the set, by Happy Massee.)
The sense of deflation is, of course, as much a problem of the material's substance as it is of Mr. Leguizamo's interpretation of it. It's far easier to manufacture angst-tinged laughs from the struggles of a scrappy outsider trying to catch a break than it is to mint meaningful humor from tales of shenanigans on the set with Patrick Swayze.
Too often in ''Ghetto Klown'' the raw honesty and keen sense of the absurd that fuel Mr. Leguizamo's sharpest material are replaced by glib joking and soft-centered stories about finding the right balance between life and work. The scabrous class clown begins to feel a little too much like a lecturer at the Learning Annex promoting his latest self-help book.
GHETTO KLOWN
Written and performed by John Leguizamo; directed by Fisher Stevens; sets by Happy Massee; lighting by Jen Schriever; sound by Peter Fitzgerald; projections by Aaron Gonzalez; technical supervisor, Hudson Theatrical Associates; production consultant, Christopher Cronin; movement consultant, Marlyn Ortiz; production stage manager, Arabella Powell; company manager, John E. Gendron; executive producer, Arnold Engelman; associate producers, Insurgent Media, Camron Cooke and Kenneth Teaton. Presented by WestBeth Entertainment, Daveed D. Frazier and Nelle Nugent. At the Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, Manhattan; (212) 239-6320, telecharge.com. Through July 10. Running time: 2 hours 15 minutes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ghetto Klown: John Leguizamo riffs on his life in his solo show at the Lyceum Theater.(C1)
 John Leguizamo in ''Ghetto Klown,'' which recounts his efforts to forge a show business career. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); THEATER (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Ghetto Klown (Play)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



522 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Idle Land Finds a Purpose As Farms for Solar Power

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
PISCATAWAY, N.J. -- Since the economic downturn, residents and businesses have been looking for ways to use real estate that may no longer appeal to mall developers or home builders. One option is to build solar energy farms, where thousands of solar panels convert the sun's energy into electricity.
Developers and utilities have a particular incentive to do so in New Jersey, where the state's Solar Renewable Energy Certificates market, along with federal and sometimes local incentives, has made solar energy more profitable. 
Solar panels atop warehouses and suburban homes have become more common, and some businesses are also using idle land nearby to build small solar farms to power their companies, said Adam J. Zellner, the president of Greener by Design, an environmental asset management and energy investment company in New Brunswick.
''You have a lot of corporate offices that have little microfarms, like three-acre things, that were next to the building,'' he said. ''Those are places that are very much appropriate for people to develop into solar power to feed directly into those companies.''
A few large farms have been proposed and created, including one that opened in October 2009 here at the Livingston Campus of Rutgers. The $10 million, 1.4-megawatt solar installation, with more than 7,000 solar panels on seven acres, is on the smaller side as solar farms go -- some in Europe are on hundreds of acres -- but the energy it produces is harvested to provide power to all the buildings on campus.
The solar farm meets about 11 percent of the campus's electrical demand, reducing its carbon dioxide emissions by 1,300 tons a year, according to the university.
But where the farm really starts to pay off is in collecting Solar Renewable Energy Certificates, a type of clean energy credit, Mr. Zellner says. Rutgers can then sell the certificates in a market popular with companies that want to avoid penalties levied by the state on generators of polluting energy.
''You can see that, to date, they've offset $235,760 from their electrical usage, but they've earned certificates that they can sell for about $1.478 million,'' said Mr. Zellner, as he gazed recently at the computer program that monitors the solar farm at Rutgers.
Utility companies have developed some of the larger solar farms in New Jersey. The Public Service Electric and Gas Company is building solar farms in Hamilton, Edison, Linden and Trenton, the largest generating about 4.4 megawatts. These larger sites are often referred to as utility-scale projects.
One of the largest solar farms in the nation, which will produce 20 megawatts on about 100 acres of former farmland in southern New Jersey, has been proposed by Panda Power Funds of Dallas and Con Edison Development, a subsidiary of Consolidated Edison of New York. The farm is under construction in Pilesgrove, N.J., and is expected to be generating power this year.
Several utility-scale solar projects have been held up because they would produce a higher voltage than existing transmission lines can handle, said Lee A. Solomon, the president of the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities. He said he anticipated that situation would be remedied with legislation.
''I think that's going to happen, and they'll be able to connect into larger lines,'' he said. ''That ought to free up some of the system for some of these larger projects.'' One type of solar arrangement that has not developed as rapidly in New Jersey are community solar farms, in which one farm powers many residences or businesses.
The developer of such a farm could use existing transmission wires or build his own system, both of which could be prohibitively expensive, solar consultants said.
Also, for other than regulated utility companies, the state's Electric Discount and Energy Competition Act tightly regulates the sale of electricity generated from one site to another, said Joe Sullivan, director of the Division of Economic Development, Energy and Policy at the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities. While one entity could sell to other sites immediately adjacent or crossing one public right-of-way, road or easement, it could not easily sell beyond that.
One 6.5-megawatt solar farm proposed for about 35 acres of a landfill in Stafford Township, N.J., may participate in a New Jersey Board of Public Utilities pilot program that would allow the developer to sell energy produced to 216 apartments, said Ed Walters Jr., president of the Walters Group, which is building the apartments.
''In New Jersey, you're not allowed to sell electricity to your tenants or to residential customers,'' he said. But in the pilot program, the solar farm's energy will be funneled into one meter for the apartment complex, and ''we'll have the ability to bill the tenants for the electricity they're using,'' Mr. Walters said.
Consisting of 24,600 panels, the solar farm will take about two years to complete, with construction starting in early May. In addition to the apartments, the farm will eventually power nine local government buildings that are on the landfill site, an existing Target store and 250,000 square feet of new retail space, Mr. Walters said.
Called Stafford Park, the development already has five apartment buildings, with a total of 112 units, with rooftop solar panels, as well as 410,000 square feet of retail space, with stores like Best Buy, Dick's Sporting Goods and PetSmart, all of which are partly powered by rooftop solar.
By building the solar farm on a landfill, the Walters Group was able to quell criticism by some environmentalists that solar farms destroy New Jersey's little remaining open space, Mr. Walters said. Environmental objections might be an obstacle for some solar farms, said Mr. Zellner of Greener By Design.
He also cautioned that, though the payback on expensive solar installations had become shorter -- about three and a half to five years in New Jersey -- most solar farms tended to be longer-term investments, using financing that could stretch 10 or 15 years and warranties for up to 25 years.
''If you lock up the land for 15 years, you may regret it when the mall developer finally comes a-knocking,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in the Square Feet pages on March 23 about the growth of solar energy farms misstated the position of the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities on a proposal by a developer, Ed Walters, to sell solar electricity to residents of an apartment complex he is building in Stafford Township, N.J. It has had preliminary discussions with Mr. Walters; it has not approved the proposal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ed Walters of the Walters Group, which installed solar panels on an apartment development in Stafford Township, N.J. Left, a solar farm that helps supply power to the Livingston Campus of Rutgers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (97%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SUBURBS (73%); ENERGY DEMAND (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (68%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON DEVELOPMENT INC (84%); PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS CO (62%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (62%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2011



523 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: Modest Methods, Big Ambitions

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
New Directors/New Films, a cinematic rite of spring in Manhattan, stakes its claim and its name on a forthright promise of novelty. Here are a bunch of movies -- 28 features in this year's edition, which starts on Wednesday and runs through April 4 at Lincoln Center and the Museum of Modern Art -- that we have not seen before, from filmmakers whose names are not yet household words.
Partly a whistle-stop on the global festival circuit, gathering wares from Cannes, Sundance, Berlin and elsewhere, New Directors is also something of a weathervane, a meteorological chart of patterns and trends in world cinema. The program is geographically and stylistically diverse, as usual, but it is also unusually strong, one of the best in years. In a post-Oscar season of bloated, complacent commercialism, it is especially bracing to encounter so many movies employing modest means in the service of large ambitions. 
The opening feature, J. C. Chandor's ''Margin Call,'' is a good example. Shot on just a few locations and taking place mostly over the course of a single, hectic night, it is both intimately scaled and dazzling in its sweep and implication. The subject -- the global financial crisis of 2008 -- could hardly be bigger, but Mr. Chandor dramatizes it using a small ensemble in a confined space, the offices of a large Wall Street investment firm. The cast, including Kevin Spacey, Jeremy Irons, Demi Moore and Zachary Quinto (young Spock from the rebooted ''Star Trek''), certainly adds luster and polish to the film, as does Frank DeMarco's silky cinematography. But what makes it such a gripping and convincing rendition of events familiar from countless books and articles is the subtlety of Mr. Chandor's writing, his understated, meticulous mapping of the intersections between banal workplace politics and the movements of international capital.
''Margin Call'' may remind you of ''The Social Network'' in the way it charges the stubbornly undramatic activities of looking at screens and scrabbling at keyboards with intensity and suspense. A possible debt to David Fincher, director of ''The Social Network,'' can be found in the way Mr. Chandor creates an aural and visual ambience that conveys emotions not directly expressed by the characters.
New Directors, precisely because it is a bouquet of mostly first and second features, is also a catalog of influences. This is not to take anything away from the hard-won originality of the films in the program. On the contrary: in any art form, the absorption of influence is a condition of true originality.
Quite a few of the films in the first half of the program --a second batch will be discussed in next Monday's paper -- find inspiration close to home, suggesting that national and regional cinematic identities persist in an age of cultural cross-pollination.
The French-language Canadian film ''Incendies,'' directed by Denis Villeneuve, takes place mainly in an unnamed Middle Eastern country with a demography and political history identical to Lebanon's, and it explores themes of identity, memory and family tragedy in a manner that recalls the work of Atom Egoyan.
Two French films, Mikhael Hers's ''Memory Lane'' and Rebecca Zlotowski's ''Belle Epine,'' feel very, well, French in their examination of the sexual and emotional lives of young people, whether 20-somethings on the outskirts of Paris in Mr. Hers's film, or a disaffected teenager in a run-down part of the city in Ms. Zlotowski's. Both directors, committed to close psychological observation and day-to-day realism, also draw on a rich and variegated native tradition that is evident in their work without being obvious. You may be reminded, from time to time, of the films of Arnaud Desplechin, Olivier Assayas, Andre Techine and Maurice Pialat, but mostly you will be caught up in the specific people and places on the screen in front of you.
This is also true of films from Turkey, China, Egypt and Romania. ''Majority,'' Seren Yuce's film about a sad young slacker in Istanbul, is an unsparingly insightful anatomy of how a male-dominated society reproduces itself, one young man at a time. Its concerns are at once intensely particular -- rooted in old customs and modern circumstances -- and universally recognizable, since Turkish society is hardly unique in its dysfunctional gender politics.
Mohamed Diab's rousing feminist drama ''Cairo 678'' takes up the pervasive problem of sexual harassment and highlights the responses of three women from different backgrounds. Though it was made before the recent popular uprising that overthrew Hosni Mubarak's government, ''Cairo 678'' is unmistakably a harbinger of that revolution, vividly portraying how the old system failed repeatedly to address daily indignities and frustrations suffered by ordinary Egyptians, women in particular.
Mr. Diab's film is full of the bustle and energy of Cairo, and its social realism is enlivened (some might say undermined) by the emphatic, melodramatic emotionalism characteristic of Egyptian television and popular cinema. And Bogdan George Apetri's ''Periferic'' is, like many other recent Romanian festival films, a race-against-the-clock drama of a person caught in a web of ethical predicaments and practical complications. While the movie's plot can feel a bit forced at times, Ana Ularu's central performance as a young woman trying to put her life back together during a 24-hour furlough from prison is nothing less than a tour de force.
This New Directors is, notably, a showcase for actors, known and unknown, professional and not. Mr. Spacey, anchoring ''Margin Call,'' does his best work in years. To watch Adepero Oduye, who plays a teenage lesbian in Brooklyn in Dee Rees's splendid ''Pariah,'' is to experience the thrill of discovery. Ms. Rees's film is sensitive but not sentimental, attuned to sexual and racial politics without succumbing to didacticism or piety. Like ''Majority'' and ''Cairo 678,'' ''Pariah'' has a point to make, and a point of view to argue, but it also, above all, wants to illuminate an individual universe of meaning and emotion.
To dip into the New Directors program is frequently to travel the spectrum from that kind of individualism to more extreme forms of idiosyncrasy. The great French actress Jeanne Balibar (''Va Savoir,'' ''The Duchess of Langeais''), speaking mostly in German, is a spooky, poignant presence in nearly every frame of ''At Ellen's Age,'' an intriguingly peculiar film by Pia Marais. In it Ms. Balibar plays a middle-aged flight attendant reeling from personal disappointment and professional stress who takes up with a group of animal-rights militants, ambivalently embracing their cause. The status of her sympathies, and of the filmmaker's, remains tantalizingly enigmatic.
Ms. Marais seems to be following her protagonist as much as she is impelling her on her meandering, tentative journey, and ''At Ellen's Age'' is one of a handful of New Directors films that challenge conventional expectations of genre and plot. Li Hongqi's ''Winter Vacation,'' from China, unfolds in a no man's land between documentary and highly stylized comedy, assembling deadpan observations of unhappy souls in a wind-swept industrial town. Denis Cote's ''Curling,'' a snow-bound feature from Quebec, gestures in the direction of horror and film noir while quietly refusing to resolve the mysteries and quandaries it puts into play.
Two documentaries also tinker with the form, addressing what might be thought of as standard historical and contemporary subjects with startlingly radical means. Goran Hugo Olsson's ''Black Power Mixtape 1967-1975'' is a collage of archival footage recorded in America, mostly by Swedish journalists, in the era of African-American militancy. The images, accompanied by present-day voice-over reflections from historians, rappers, artists and veterans of the era's racial politics, offer revelations about events and personalities we thought we understood completely.
Mr. Olsson's film reaches beyond received wisdom into the difficult and contradictory truth of the time, and in a similar vein -- though in a completely different style -- Natalia Almada's ''Velador'' pushes beyond media cliches about Mexico's drug war. Filmed in a cemetery full of the grotesque, mansionlike tombs of narco-casualties, ''El Velador'' is an unsettlingly quiet, even lyrical film about a world made and unmade by violence.
What Ms. Almada has to say about the subject is inseparable from the experience of watching her film. And while it is possible to boil New Directors down to a list of timely, fascinating topics -- Middle Eastern politics, sexual and otherwise; corporate greed; economic hardship; and so on -- these films are not lectures or lessons. They are efforts, variously successful but consistently interesting and serious, to show you something new.
New Directors/New Films runs through April 4 at Lincoln Center and the Museum of Modern Art; newdirectors.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'THE BLACK POWER MIXTAPE 1967-1975': Angela Davis in Goran Hugo Olsson's documentary about the Black Power movement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STORY AB, SVERIGES TELEVISION AB AND LOUVERTURE FILMS LLC)
'MARGIN CALL': Jeremy Irons, left, and Simon Baker in J. C. Chandor's film about the global financial crisis of 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENAROYA PICTURES)
'PARIAH': Aasha Davis, left, and Adepero Oduye in a scene from Dee Rees's feature about a teenage lesbian in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOCUS FEATURES)
'CAIRO 678': The actress and executive producer Boshra, with Baseem Samra in this drama from Egypt by Mohamed Diab. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FORTISSIMO FILMS)(C1)
'EL VELADOR': A scene from Natalia Almada's documentary about the casualties of the drug wars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALTAMURA FILMS AND AMERICAN DOCUMENTARY)
'MEMORY LANE': Thibault Vincon and Dounia Sichov in this French film by Mikhael Hers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LES FILMS DE LA GRANDE OURSE)
'MAJORITY': Bartu Kucukcaglayan in Seren Yuce's film about a sad young slacker in Istanbul.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YENI SINEMACILIK)
 'AT ELLEN'S AGE': Jeanne Balibar as an animalrights advocate in this film directed by Pia Marais. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PANDORA FILM PRODUKTION)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FESTIVALS (75%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CAIRO, EGYPT (74%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (59%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); EGYPT (74%); TURKEY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



524 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Going Viral With Celebrity Pitchmen

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
IN an Audi commercial that had its premier during the Super Bowl, Kenny G, the saxophone player, made a self-deprecating appearance as a ''prison riot suppressor'' whose performing instantly put unruly inmates to sleep.
It was not, it turns out, the only surprising appearance in a recent commercial for Kenny G. He also appears in a less prominent commercial for BECU, a Washington State credit union that is promoting a new debit card with the University of Washington logo. 
Kenneth Bruce Gorelick, as he was then known, graduated from the university in 1978 with a major in business and a minor in accounting. In the spot, uploaded to YouTube and the credit union's Web site on Feb. 15 and appearing only online, Kenny G plays the opening and closing notes of the school fight song, ''Bow Down to Washington,'' while other noteworthy alumni sing lines from the song.
''I got a lot out of my time there and it was really beneficial for me and for my musical career, so I just thought it would be fun if I could help,'' said the musician in a telephone interview.
Among the dozen alumni who add vocals are Rick Steves, the travel journalist, Richard Karn, co-star of the ''Home Improvement'' television series, and William H. Gates Sr., father of the Microsoft founder Bill Gates.
What is very clear in the video, shot by the filmmaker Dee Robertson, is that the singers were not cast based on talent.
''When we were planning the shoot, some of the alumni said, 'We can't sing,' and we said we know that, and that's part of the fun,'' said Liv Faris, a producer at Colehour and Cohen, the social marketing and public relations firm in Seattle that produced the video. ''Other than Kenny G these are not professional musicians, and we didn't want to make fun of anyone but we wanted it to be entertaining.''
Credit unions historically have been low-key with advertising, but in the past couple of years they have become more aggressive, occasionally addressing the distaste many consumers have shown for big banks whose lending practices contributed to the economic downturn.
Last year, for example, America's First Federal Credit Union in Birmingham, Ala., ran a series of commercials in which bankers entered sidewalk confessionals and admitted their sins; in another commercial, for Public Service Credit Union in Michigan, a heavyset man depicting a banker bathed in a tub of dollar bills.
Other credit unions are lining up their first celebrity pitchmen, including the Municipal Credit Union based in New York, which recently signed on John Franco, the retired relief pitcher for the New York Mets. In a commercial that began appearing in February, produced by Vanguard Direct in New York, Mr. Franco, who grew up in Brooklyn, notes that his father, who worked for the Department of Sanitation, was a member.
The 96-year-old credit union had never advertised on television before last year, and Steve Kibitel, its vice president for marketing, said it favored raising its profile over disparagement.
''We're not into the attack mode,'' Mr. Kibitel said. ''We're comfortable within our own skin promoting who we are -- the banks are the banks, this is who we are, check us out.''
At the 121 Financial Credit Union in Jacksonville, Fla., David Garrard, quarterback for the Jacksonville Jaguars, has served as a pitchman for three years. The credit union, formerly called the Florida Telco Credit Union, was until a decade ago open only to members of the telecommunications industry.
''I don't care how much we said that anyone in our chartered area can join, people didn't understand it,'' said Cindy Breslin, vice president for marketing at the credit union, which serves the 11 counties surrounding Jacksonville in North Florida. ''So we got a celebrity to say, 'Anyone can join -- and I joined too.' ''
For the campaign linked to the University of Washington featuring Kenny G, the entire budget was under $100,000.
''We instantly knew that we couldn't have a media budget that would reach Husky fans,'' said Toby Travis, senior marketing strategist for BECU, referring to the name for the school mascot and teams. ''We thought if we had a great Husky-centric idea that people would pass along for us, it would be a much more cost-efficient and cost-effective way to do it.''
Viral videos from national brands often attract millions of views on YouTube, but the credit union had a finite audience in mind: current or former students at the university who also were Washington residents, since only Washingtonians can join.
(The most notable exception: out-of-state employees of Boeing, whom BECU, which stands for Boeing Employees Credit Union, originally served exclusively.)
Mr. Travis said the goal for the Husky fight song video was to attract about 10,000 views. So far, it has been viewed about 30,000 times.
''Our total membership is around 600,000, so getting 30,000 views represents a pretty huge percentage of the audience we were going after,'' said Mr. Travis of the video, which also was featured widely in local media, including mentions in The Seattle Times, The Seattle Post-Intelligencer, and on local television stations, radio stations and blogs.
The credit union has sponsored sports teams at the University of Washington in recent years, and has installed A.T.M. machines on campus and opened branches nearby, a primary attraction being that undergraduates are relatively unencumbered. A barrier for older customers switching banks, after all, is the complication of transferring automatic withdrawals and payments to a new account.
But college students ''are not entrenched because they don't have a car loan and mortgage and a lot of other automatic payments,'' said Mr. Travis.
In addition, college students might be more averse to service fees, which Mr. Travis said were generally higher at banks than at the credit union. ''A $3 fee to 19-year-olds might be 15 percent of their net worth,'' Mr. Travis said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kenny G appeared in an ad for a debit card linked to his alma matter, the University of Washington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); CREDIT UNIONS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); BASEBALL (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RIOTS (77%); PRISONS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); MUSIC (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (62%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (83%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



525 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan's President Vows, Again, to Fight Extremism

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL and SALMAN MASOOD

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- President Asif Ali Zardari condemned the recent murders of two high-level officials of his government and vowed to fight militancy and extremism to the end, speaking in his yearly address at the opening of Parliament on Tuesday.
''We will fight militants to the finish,'' he said to loud applause from his party supporters. ''We will not back down. We cannot permit the use of our soil for terrorist activities against any other country, we will not.'' 
But in a sign of Mr. Zardari's increasing isolation, he was speaking to a half-empty chamber: a walkout of the main opposition parties at the start of the address included the largest, the Pakistan Muslim League of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. Ostensibly a statement against government corruption, the protest was an example of the constant political wrangling that daily threatens to overwhelm the government.
A burst of heckling as he began speaking died down when Mr. Zardari loudly condemned the burning of a Koran in Florida on Sunday, an event that drew few attendees and slipped by with little media attention. The event was held at a tiny church whose pastor, Terry Jones, created an international stir last year with the threat to burn a Koran, before backing off amid criticism both of him and the American media for giving him outsize attention.
Three years into a five-year term, Mr. Zardari is showing an ability to survive politically despite repeated predictions of his government's collapse. In his address, he listed broad achievements on his watch. In particular, he noted constitutional reforms that strengthen democracy, including his own actions to relinquish presidential powers acquired by military rulers, and changes to devolve power to the provinces.
He promised further political change in the restive tribal areas, which has met with resistance from the Pakistani military, as well as economic and energy reforms and increased regional trade.
Despite an increasingly difficult and unpopular relationship with the United States, he reiterated his party's conviction to fight terrorism and develop good long-term relations with neighboring Afghanistan, and the United States and other regional actors. ''We seek trade, not aid,'' he said.
''With the United States we remain committed to building a long-term partnership based on mutual respect, mutual interest, and sovereign equality,'' he said. Relations with Afghanistan had undergone a ''sea change'' under his government, he said.
He condemned the killing of the former Punjab Province governor, Salman Taseer, who was assassinated by one of his own security guards in January, and that of the minister for minorities, Shahbaz Bhatti, in the first week of March. Both had campaigned for changes to Pakistan's blasphemy laws, which often are used to persecute Christians and other religious minorities.
Mr. Zardari's government has dropped its plans to revise the blasphemy laws and he did not mention the issue in his speech, but promised to protect the rights of minorities.
''We will ensure a modern, moderate Pakistan,'' Mr. Zardari said. ''We will avenge the martyrdom of heroes of democracy by defeating the mind-set that preaches violence and hatred,'' he went on.
''We must be true to our principles, and we must be strong,'' he said. ''Being strong means, denouncing what is wrong. And violence, hatred, extremism and intolerance are wrong.'' In the climate of fear that followed the killings of the two officials, Mr. Zardari and members of his government were criticized for their weak response in condemning the murders and pursuing their assassins.
He also vowed to continue to pursue those behind the death of his wife, former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, during an attack by extremists in 2007 in Rawalpindi, the garrison city adjacent to Islamabad. After a United Nations commission completed its inquiry into her death, the government had brought forward a new prosecution document to court, he said.
Her family and her party, the Pakistan Peoples Party, did not want revenge, he said. ''We aim at defeating the mind-set that was behind her assassination. As she herself so famously said: 'Democracy is the best revenge.' ''
''The fight against militancy may be long and bitter, but we have no other option except to win. And win we will, soon, God willing,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Asif Ali Zardari addressed Parliament on Tuesday in the capital, Islamabad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PARLIAMENT HOUSE, VIA E.P.A.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); ASSASSINATION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (74%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); CORRUPTION (68%); MURDER (58%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (90%); NAWAZ SHARIF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



526 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Disruption In Japan Slows Rise In Oil Price

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS; David Jolly contributed reporting from Tokyo.

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- The recent economic jolt to Japan's economy, by lowering energy demand, has at least temporarily offset some of the Libyan uprising's impact on oil prices. But experts say there are limits to how long that buffering effect might last.
In addition to Japan's nuclear power industry, the earthquake and tsunami also damaged nine oil refineries, disrupting nearly one-third of the country's refining capacity. Many factories and businesses have ground to a halt, and vehicle traffic in Japan's bustling cities has eased. Oil shipments have been curtailed by damage at seaports along the tsunami-ravaged coast that will take months to repair. 
All told, Japanese demand for oil has been reduced by an estimated 1 million barrels a day. That is nearly one-quarter of what Japan imports, and roughly the same amount of oil that has been withdrawn from world markets by the unrest in Libya.
More than three-quarters of the oil Japan imports comes from the Middle East. The slowdown in Japanese imports, oil experts say, is giving Saudi Arabia some breathing space as it tries to ramp up production to make up for lost Libyan oil.
''There is some balancing in the market,'' said Marvin E. Odum, president of Shell Oil Company. He added, however, that ''at this point nobody knows yet'' how long that could endure.
Oil prices have risen by about 20 percent since unrest began spreading through North Africa and the Middle East earlier this year. But prices have remained relatively stable over the last week, despite the Allied attacks on Libya.
The average price for a gallon of regular gasoline on Tuesday was a penny lower than a week earlier, according to AAA's daily fuel gauge. But at $3.55 a gallon, it is still 38 cents higher than a month ago.
Oil prices slipped early Tuesday after Japan announced that it would release 22 days worth of oil from its reserves to assist areas that were damaged by the earthquake. But prices quickly rebounded as reports of unrest in Libya, Bahrain, Yemen and Syria roiled markets. West Texas Intermediate crude closed up $1.67, to $104 a barrel, in New York.
Japan relies on imported oil for 45 percent of its energy needs, according to the United States Energy Department, and it is the third-largest importer of oil in the world. Japan is the world's third-largest economy and a major trading partner of China, South Korea and the United States, and a slowdown of its economy will have at least some ripple effects.
''Japan is a big buyer of stuff from China and South Korea, so this is going to lever down the export growth of Asia for at least a half a year, and that is going to diminish the demand for oil out of Asia,'' said Allen L. Sinai, chief global economist at Decision Economics, an advisory firm. He estimated that ''on a pure supply-demand basis, oil prices should go down $10 or $15 a barrel,'' as a result of the sharp decline in the Japanese economy over the next six months or so.
But Mr. Sinai and other economists cautioned that a reduction in Japanese demand was only one of many global factors that were now affecting oil prices. At a time of economic and political uncertainty, traders and central banks are adding oil futures to their portfolios as an alternative asset like gold. More important, turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East will threaten the security of vital oil fields, ports and shipping lanes for at least the near future.
Meanwhile the oil appetite of the growing Chinese economy, the principal driver in the recovery of global demand in recent years, is running at 10 percent higher than a year ago, or 9.5 million barrels a day.
One factor that will continue to depress Japan's oil demand is that as much as 550,000 barrels a day of Japanese refinery capacity may be off line for months and possibly until the end of the year, according to experts. Two major refineries, JX Nippon's Sendai refinery and Cosmo Oil's Chiba plant, suffered major fires after the earthquake. A third refinery remains closed and oil storage facilities at several refineries have also been damaged.
Cosmo said on Monday it had finally extinguished the fire at its Chiba refinery, north of Tokyo. But the 220,000-barrel-a-day plant would be out of commission for a prolonged period. Katsuhisa Maeda, a spokesman for the company, said Cosmo would ramp up production at its other facilities as much as possible.
Even with the damage to refineries and the slowdown to the Japanese economy, though, some energy analysts predict that there will be a steady increase in Japanese oil demand. In a recent research note, Barclays Capital estimated that Japan would experience ''incremental demand'' increases of 143,000 barrels a day of fuel oil and 67,000 barrels a day of crude oil to replace lost nuclear and other power capacity.
The Japanese calamity may eventually lead to a construction boom, which will most likely require more fuel consumption.
''After a period of demand destruction the tragedy in Japan will become very bullish for oil,'' wrote Phil Flynn, an energy analyst at PFGBest, a brokerage firm, in a research note on Tuesday. ''Not only the hard numbers rebuilding Japan, but a reduction in nuclear power plants around the globe will, eventually lead to millions more barrels of oil consumed on a daily basis as well as coal and natural gas.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Cosmo Oil plant in Ichihara, Chiba Prefecture, was one of two refineries that suffered major damage from the earthquake. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KYODO NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); 2011 LIBYAN UPRISING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); PLANT CAPACITY (76%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (76%); TSUNAMIS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); EARTHQUAKES (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); HARBORS & PORTS (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (67%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (67%); RDSA (AMS) (67%); RDS.B (NYSE) (67%); RDS.A (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (67%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); SYRIA (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



527 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Despite Vacancies, Office Developers Bet on Miami

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
MIAMI -- Bucking a trend that has curtailed development in other cities, the downtown Miami skyline has two shiny new office towers, its first since 2004, and will soon have a third. More office space was added in Miami last year -- 1.3 million square feet -- than in any other American city except Washington, which grew by 2.5 million square feet.
Yet the vacancy rate in Miami's central business district is 22 percent, about twice that of the nation's capital, according to the real estate services firm Jones Lang LaSalle.
Despite the empty space, the Foram Group of Miami recently announced that it would proceed with a 40-story office tower at 600 Brickell Avenue, a project that had stalled in January 2009 because of the economic downturn. Expected to be completed in August, the building will add 600,000 square feet to the downtown office market. No leases have been signed so far. 
The Miami building spree has proved a bonanza for tenants, as landlords have competed feverishly by offering many months of free rent and generous financial help in creating new offices. Though annual asking rents in the new buildings are above $40 a square foot, brokers said tenants were actually paying considerably less than that when the concessions were taken into account.
Some tenants have even saved money by moving because they have been able to fit the same number of employees into less space. And they have been spared the challenges of trying to reconfigure existing space or the headaches associated with remodeling, said Diana L. Parker, a director at Cushman & Wakefield of Florida. ''It's hard to live through a renovation,'' she said.
Though downtown Miami is rapidly becoming a lively residential neighborhood, office leasing is of course driven by jobs. The unemployment rate in Miami-Dade County has begun to decline, but it still stands at 12 percent. The two new completed buildings, 1450 Brickell Avenue, at the southern end of Miami's business district, and Wells Fargo Center, at 333 Avenue of the Americas, near the northern end, have managed to lure tenants from other buildings. ''The last generation of buildings are being left with big open spaces,'' said Robert Kaplan, a principal of Asentus Real Estate, a real estate investment firm in Miami. ''The question is how do these get backfilled?''
In October, a major Miami law firm, Bilzin Sumberg, moved into 80,000 square feet in 1450 Brickell, leaving a 90,000-square-foot hole at the Southeast Financial Center at 200 South Biscayne Boulevard. That building also lost the accounting firm Deloitte & Touche, which relocated to the new Wells Fargo Center.
Bilzin Sumberg originally had been slated to move to 600 Brickell, but it backed out of that deal in early 2009, citing the construction delay. Postponing the move enabled the firm to take advantage of lower rents and construction costs resulting from the downturn, said Carey A. Stiss, a Bilzin Sumberg partner. ''Because of the timing, we had a savings in the seven figures,'' he said.
Greenberg Traurig, a major law firm that lost many of its windows at 1221 Brickell Avenue in Hurricane Wilma in 2005, was able to pare its footprint to 125,000 square feet from 168,000 square feet by moving. By relocating to the Wells Fargo Center, the firm could dispense with its full kitchen and a series of dining rooms, said the new building's broker, Jack Lowell, a vice president of Flagler Real Estate Services. The law firm now has access whenever it wants to a private dining room at the adjacent Marriott Marquis hotel, he said.
By the standards of Miami, which has few corporate or regional headquarters, Greenberg Traurig and Bilzin Sumberg are huge tenants. ''This is a 5,000-foot market,'' said Danet Linares, an executive vice president of Blanca Commercial Real Estate, the local firm representing 1450 Brickell.
Some landlords, anticipating the competition from the new towers, took steps early on to retain longtime tenants by lowering the rent and sprucing up their buildings. The owner of 701 Brickell Avenue, the financial services firm TIAA-CREF, was able to keep its major tenant, Bank of America, in the 1986 building, in part by moving the bank within the building. ''Over all, they got a great deal,'' said Scott Strickland, a senior vice president of Jones Lang LaSalle, the landlord's broker.
Each new building has sought to differentiate itself from its rivals. After the Rilea Group, the Miami firm that developed 1450 Brickell, said that its building would be able to withstand hurricane winds of 327 miles per hour, Foram countered that its building could handle winds up to 334 m.p.h. Both 1450 Brickell and Wells Fargo Center meet gold LEED energy-efficiency standards, so Foram went for a much rarer platinum designation.
Wells Fargo Center emphasizes easy access from the downtown exit off Interstate 95 and its proximity to several restaurants. But Alan Ojeda, the chief executive of Rilea, contended that both Wells Fargo Center and 600 Brickell were too close to the Brickell Bridge, which spans the busy Miami River and backs up traffic when it opens. Last year, the drawbridge was raised 4,990 times, according to the Florida Department of Transportation.
Mr. Ojeda pointed out that his new office tower was in a less congested section than the others and offered unobstructed views in all directions. Responding to Hurricane Wilma, which littered Brickell Avenue with shattered glass and even cracked top-floor windows in one building, Mr. Ojeda decided to use high-impact glass throughout 1450 Brickell, exceeding local building standards. The additional protection, and an extra-large second generator, added about $25 a square foot to the building's $240 million cost, he said.
The 35-story building, which was completed in March, is more than 60 percent leased. Aside from Bilzin, major tenants include several banks, the corporate recruiting company Korn/Ferry International and American Express. Ms. Linares said 12 of the 28 tenants were new to the Miami office market.
At the opposite end of the central business district, the 47-story Wells Fargo Center, which was developed by the insurance giant MetLife and the MDM Development Group of Miami, is 40 percent leased. Wells Fargo acquired naming rights by taking 90,000 square feet. The building has a bowling alley, a basketball court and the requisite gym. A Whole Foods Market will open in the base of a 10-level parking garage that MetLife and MDM are building across the street.
Though 600 Brickell has no tenants yet, Foram Group said its broker, CB Richard Ellis, began marketing the building only last month, after Canyon Capital Realty Advisors of Los Angeles made a $130 million construction loan.
Loretta H. Cockrum, the chief executive of Foram, said that when a decision was made two years ago to slow construction -- she contended it did not stop entirely -- Foram sought ways to make the building stand out. The tower will offer the most advanced fiber optic technology, a feature aimed at appealing to media companies and financial services firms seeking trading floors. Of the new buildings, 600 Brickell is the only one in an enterprise zone, which will allow tenants to qualify for tax incentives, Ms. Cockrum said.
Ms. Cockrum said she hoped to introduce new industries to Miami. ''It doesn't help the city to move a tenant from Building A to Building B,'' she said. ''We believe we are going to attract a lot of out-of-market businesses and tenants.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Even though downtown Miami has a 22 percent vacancy rate, Alan Ojeda of Rilea and others are building. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL McELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (73%); CITIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (80%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD OF FLORIDA INC (66%); JONES LANG LASALLE INC (57%); AQUANTIVE INC (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); JLL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (80%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (80%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (66%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (57%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



528 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1930 words

HEADLINE: FATAL CONFUSION IN A NASSAU TOWN

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD and AL BAKER; Reporting was contributed by Joseph Goldstein, William K. Rashbaum, Mosi Secret, Tim Stelloh and Michael Wilson.

 BODY:
So many police officers, retired or working patrol, live in and around Massapequa Park, N.Y., it is something of a ''Cop Land.'' They listen to scanners, swap crime stories and remember how it once was.
So after a flurry of calls about a man wielding knives, the scene filled with officers. Among them were two from different departments and a retired officer from a third. They did not know one another. None of the three, it turned out, were necessarily needed, and it is unclear whether any of them should even have been there. But in choosing to be there, they became central players in an ugly suburban drama sown with unforeseen twists.
The man with knives, Anthony DiGeronimo, was shot and killed by Nassau County police officers. Officer Geoffrey J. Breitkopf died by the gun of a transit officer, Glenn Gentile, just four minutes later. And the behavior of the retired officer, John Cafarella, may have pivotally shaped the night's doomed outcome. 
As the episode unfolded a week and a half ago, Mr. Cafarella is believed to have yelled ''Gun!'' at a crucial instant. Later, witnesses said, he grabbed the rifle of Officer Breitkopf as he was dying. Other tiny and unlucky factors piled up before the officer's death: Officer Breitkopf's rifle had been pointed in the worst possible direction; a small-bore dispute with a neighbor contributed another note of tension to an already taut situation.
One issue is whether the phenomenon of police overresponse to a crime contributed to the confusion. In short order, more than a dozen police officers -- even that count is murky -- converged that Saturday evening in Massapequa Park on one house, making for an overpopulated scene that was difficult to control, with officers who did not know one another, their guns out.
Louis R. Anemone, the former chief of department of the New York Police Department, was loath to evaluate something he was not involved in, but he did say that the appropriate number of officers answering a call is an issue as old as policing itself.
''Throughout my career, cops have always been eager to respond, to help, to get to the scene, and it is one of the inherent dangers of police work,'' he said. ''There is a very, very, very fine balance.''
The case remains under investigation, and no charges have been filed. As yet, no consensus has been reached on how things ended as they did, and some questions may never be answered.
Three Officers
Police officers run deep through this story. A good number come home to the Cape Cods and ranches of Massapequa Park itself -- including Mr. Cafarella. One officer lives down the block from the site of the shootings, but he was out at a movie with his wife at the time. A 79-year-old retired officer lives two doors away from the scene. He was at home watching TV that night and did not come out. He was in his pajamas.
Officer Gentile, 33, grew up 10 blocks away. His father had been a Nassau County detective, working in a number of the Police Department's premier units. He retired in 2004, and four years later died of cancer at 55.
After high school, in 1996, Glenn Gentile joined the Army and spent a year in Bosnia. He left the service in 2003. Three years later he became a Metropolitan Transportation Authority police officer, one of 700 who patrol the railroads. His younger brother, Anthony, is also an officer with the authority.
Officer Breitkopf, 40, wore a bushy beard, his hair close-cropped. He joined the Nassau police force in 1998 and belonged to its elite special operations unit. The unit's logo was tattooed on his chest. He was a member of the volunteer fire department in Selden, Suffolk County, where he lived with his wife and two small children. In a former life, he was a BMW mechanic. He was fond of riding his motorcycle.
Mr. Cafarella, 58, retired as a sergeant from the New York Police Department's Emergency Service Unit in 2008, after 26 years on the force. The unit dealt with confrontations involving violent people and with rescue work.
After the World Trade Center bombing in 1993, he climbed 90 stories up one of the towers to get people out. He also worked for eight months at the trade center site after the Sept. 11 attacks, later complaining of respiratory problems and migraines.
Paul Hargrove, a retired supervisor in the unit, described him as a skilled officer who did not assert his authority inappropriately, but looked for a role when there was a problem. ''Let's say it was a car accident,'' Mr. Hargrove said. ''If he was not able to help the people in the car, John would have been the guy directing traffic.''
On Saturday, March 12, these three men were in three different places, when something requiring police attention unfolded in Massapequa Park.
A Deranged Man
The village of Massapequa Park sits on the South Shore of Long Island. It fills not much more than two square miles, about an hour's drive from Manhattan, and resembles many tidy Long Island communities.
Neither Mr. Cafarella nor Officer Gentile would comment for this article. But according to tentative conclusions of law enforcement officials and the accounts of witnesses, most of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity, this is what happened. There were two distinct chapters.
In the first, a bizarrely dressed young man wearing a white mask and carrying two knives was walking down Front Street. He had passed Johnny McGorey's Irish Pub and was scratching parked cars. This was Anthony DiGeronimo, 21, who called himself a ''spiritual Satanist.'' His father, David, said he and his son collected knives.
Theresa Kelly, 71, a retired hairdresser, was backing her Volkswagen Passat out of her driveway to visit her sister for dinner and pinochle. There was a bang on her window, and there was Mr. Geronimo flaunting a knife over the hood of her car.
Frightened, she tooted her horn and dialed 911 on her cellphone. It was 8:15 p.m. A woman at McGorey's, as it happened, had already called the police twice, the first time at 8:10. Two more 911 calls would follow Ms. Kelly's.
Mr. DiGeronimo withdrew, and Ms. Kelly drove slowly down the street, watching where he was going. He lived around the corner, but she did not know him. She also called her son, Sean, 43, who lived with her, and told him what was going on.
A Nassau County police officer, dispatched at 8:13, pulled up within a couple of minutes and confronted Mr. DiGeronimo. A second officer arrived at almost the same time.
Right then Mr. Cafarella and his wife were driving by. Mr. Cafarella made the fourth 911 call.
He pulled over, got out and tried to help the officers talk the masked man into dropping his knives. Mr. DiGeronimo retreated into his parents' house on the corner of Fourth Avenue and Front Street, pursued by the two officers. Backup was radioed for, and additional officers arrived.
Ms. Kelly was outside the DiGeronimo house by her car, its door open. She said the scene was ''total chaos,'' officers dashing every which way. A man in a red fleece, she said, was ''running all over like a lunatic, shouting orders; he caused a lot of chaos.''
One of the first officers on the scene said Mr. Cafarella was wearing a red fleece, and the authorities believe no plainclothes officer was there then.
Mr. DiGeronimo barricaded himself inside his bedroom.
Suddenly, Mr. DiGeronimo emerged, clutching a knife over his head, and lurched at the two officers monitoring him. Both shot him, and he crumpled on the floor.
After she heard the gunfire, Ms. Kelly said, the man in the fleece cursed at her to leave and shoved her into her car, kicking the door shut with his foot.
The Second Shooting
The second chapter can be introduced with the subplot of Sean Kelly -- Theresa Kelly's son -- and his sneakers.
He was upstairs in his room, channel surfing. He has been unemployed for two years, trying to find something in shipping or importing.
When he got his mother's call, he yanked on his sneakers, called a relative and dashed outside. By the time he reached the street, Mr. DiGeronimo was dead.
As he sped down the street, he found himself flanked by a police officer. Mr. Kelly said the officer brusquely ordered him to leave, but Mr. Kelly persisted that he was going to his mother because she had been threatened.
The officer repeated his order, then showed him a can of pepper spray. A second officer extracted a nightstick. At that point, Mr. Kelly said, someone from the neighborhood told him to let the officers do their work, and he backed off.
Officer Gentile had been at the Massapequa Long Island Rail Road station. Hearing the call crackle over the police radio frequency, he and his partner responded. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority said its officers frequently assisted other agencies, just as other officers often helped the agency.
By the time they got there, the disturbance was over.
Shortly afterward, Officer Breitkopf drove up with his partner.
After Mr. DiGeronimo was shot, the police put out a ''10-87'' over the radio, police code for slow down the response. This is different than a ''disregard'' code, which would have meant not to respond. It is not known if Officer Breitkopf heard the 10-87.
Officer Breitkopf was in plain clothes. His police shield hung on a lanyard around his neck, but it is unknown whether it was visible. He retrieved his rifle from his trunk, slung it over his shoulder, the barrel pointed down, and, in the pocked darkness, strode toward the house. The police said taking a rifle was appropriate for a situation in which a dangerous person was barricaded.
The Nassau officers knew him. As he crossed the lawn, he greeted a couple of them and let them know he was going to assess the situation.
The rest happened fast. Someone said, ''Gun!'' or ''He's got a gun!'' Mr. Cafarella told investigators that he might have said that.
The brief confrontation moments before with Mr. Kelly may have been on the minds of some officers.
The transit officers did not know Officer Breitkopf. Spotting a man with a rifle, Officer Gentile's partner came up either from behind him or to his side and grabbed him on his right shoulder, trying to stop him.
At this point, Officer Breitkopf's rifle swiveled upward so that it was pointing toward the nearby Officer Gentile.
The altered position of the rifle may have resulted from his shoulder being jostled. It is also conceivable that Officer Breitkopf heard ''gun'' and reflexively raised his rifle, not imagining anyone was talking about him.
It was just about 8:23. Officer Gentile was a few feet away. The authorities said he told investigators he saw a man pointing a rifle toward him.
Protocol when a police officer confronts someone suspicious is to yell, ''Police, don't move.'' A plainclothes officer is then to respond, ''Police, don't shoot.''
The authorities believe nothing was said, and time probably did not allow anything to be said.
Officer Gentile fired. It was only the second time in a decade that a transit officer had shot a gun in the line of duty.
Hit in the side, Officer Breitkopf collapsed next to a tree. Officers who knew him shouted, ''He's police!''
At nearly the same time, according to an officer who was there, Mr. Cafarella came over and ripped the rifle off of the stricken officer. Seeing this, another officer drew his gun and nearly shot Mr. Cafarella.
An officer clutched Mr. Cafarella by his throat and seized the rifle. He said Mr. Cafarella identified himself as a retired police officer who was ''on the job.''
Officer Gentile stood frozen on the lawn, mute and distraught.
An ambulance raced Officer Breitkopf to the hospital, and there he was pronounced dead.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Cafarella, a retired officer, was at the scene.
The Massapequa Park, N.Y., house where a siege drew many police officers. One officer mistook another as a threat, and fired. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Officer Geoffrey J. Breitkopf, left, was killed outside the house, where Anthony DiGeronimo, shown in a memorial display, had held police officers at bay after wielding knives in public. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NASSAU COUNTY POLICE DEPARTMENT
 MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SHOOTINGS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



529 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Census Figures Confirm A Grim Desertion Like No Other

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Jacob Smilovitz contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Laying bare the country's most startling example of modern urban collapse, census data on Tuesday showed that Detroit's population had plunged by 25 percent over the last decade. It was dramatic testimony to the crumbling industrial base of the Midwest, black flight to the suburbs and the tenuous future of what was once a thriving metropolis.
It was the largest percentage loss for any American city with more than 100,000 residents over the last decade, apart from the unique situation of New Orleans, where the population dropped by 29 percent after Hurricane Katrina in 2005, said Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College. 
The number of people who vanished from Detroit -- 237,500 -- was bigger than the 140,000 who left New Orleans.
The loss in Detroit seemed to further demoralize some residents who said they already had little hope for the city's future.
''Even if we had depressing issues before, the decline makes it so much harder to deal with,'' said Samantha Howell, 32, who was getting gas on Tuesday on the city's blighted East Side. ''Yes, the city feels empty physically, empty of people, empty of ambition, drive. It feels empty.''
Detroit's population fell to 713,777 in 2010, the lowest since 1910, when it was 466,000. In a shift that was unthinkable 20 years ago, Detroit is now smaller than Austin, Tex., Charlotte, N.C., and Jacksonville, Fla.
''It's a major city in free-fall,'' said L. Brooks Patterson, the county executive of neighboring Oakland County, which was also hit by the implosion of the automobile industry but whose population rose by almost 1 percent, thanks to an influx of black residents. ''Detroit's tax base is eroding, its citizens are fleeing and its school system is in the hands of a financial manager.''
Nearly a century ago, the expansion of the auto industry fueled a growth spurt that made Detroit the fourth-largest city in the country by 1920, a place it held until 1950, when the population peaked at almost two million. By 2000, Detroit had fallen to 10th place.
Depending on final numbers from all cities, Detroit now may have dropped to 18th place, said William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution.
City officials, cognizant of the negative political and financial consequences of such a decline in population, said they intended to challenge the census. It probably missed tens of thousands of residents, they said.
''While we expected a decline in population, we are confident these figures will be revised,'' Mayor David Bing said in a statement. He told reporters that if the city could account for a total of 750,000 people, it would meet a threshold for receiving more federal and state money.
Detroit is the only city in the United States where the population has climbed above one million but also fallen below one million, Mr. Beveridge said. And because of the magnitude of Detroit's population drain, Michigan is the only state to register a net population loss since 2000. Michigan's population fell by 0.6 percent while the nation's as a whole grew by 9.7 percent.
The reasons for Detroit's losses over the last decade include the travails of the auto industry and the collapse of the industrial-based economy.
''There's been an erosion of the nation's industrial base, and this is the most dramatic evidence of it,'' Mr. Beveridge said.
But a major factor, too, has been the exodus of black residents to the suburbs, which followed the white flight that started in the 1960s. Detroit lost 185,393 black residents in the last decade.
''This is the biggest loss of blacks the city has shown, and that's tied to the foreclosures in the city's housing,'' Mr. Frey said. Because of the Great Migration -- when blacks flowed from the South to the North -- and the loss of whites, he said, ''Detroit has been the most segregated city in the country and it is still pretty segregated, but not as much.'' At one point, the city was 83 percent black.
Many blacks moved to nearby suburbs, but census data shows that even those suburbs have barely held their own against population loss.
The staggering loss over the past decade surprised even demographers who track Detroit's out-migration patterns.
''I never thought it would go this low,'' said Kurt Metzger, an urban affairs expert and demographer who analyzes data about the city.
''This is the biggest percentage loss that Detroit has ever seen,'' he said, noting that the city suffered a higher numerical loss, 300,000, from 1970 to 1980. Still, that accounted for only 20 percent of the population, which had been 1.5 million in 1970.
The question now is the degree to which the most recent census figures will discourage those who have invested in Detroit and continue to try to make a go of it.
''Obviously it's going to be a blow,'' Mr. Metzger said. ''All of us are kind of shocked, but it means we have to work that much harder.''
With more than 20 percent of the lots in the 139-square-mile city vacant, the mayor is in the midst of a program to demolish 10,000 empty residential buildings. But for many, the city already seems hollowed out.
''You can just see the emptiness driving in,'' said Joel Dellario, a student at the College for Creative Studies. ''I've been in and out of this city my whole life, and it's just really apparent.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about a severe population drop in Detroit, using information from three demographers, erroneously attributed a distinction to Detroit. Its 25 percent loss from 2000 to 2010 was the biggest percentage loss over the last decade for any American city with more than 100,000 people, other than New Orleans. It was not the biggest percentage loss for such cities in any decade. (That distinction belongs to St. Louis, which lost 27.2 percent of its population between 1970 and 1980.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Abandoned homes on the northeast side of Detroit tell the story of a city whose residents have fled in record numbers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COUNTIES (76%); SUBURBS (72%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%); HURRICANES (70%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (77%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



530 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: China Urges Quick End To Airstrikes In Libya

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Sebnem Arsu contributed reporting from Istanbul. Zhang Jing contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China escalated its opposition to American-led airstrikes on Libya on Tuesday, joining Russia and India in calls for an immediate cease-fire and suggesting that coalition forces were imperiling civilians by exceeding the United Nations-mandated no-fly zone.
The rising criticism among the so-called BRIC group -- Brazil, Russia, India and China -- came amid allegations by the Libyan government that allied bombings had killed or wounded scores of civilians, a claim rejected by American military officials. 
On Monday, hours after the departure of President Obama, Brazil issued a statement condemning the attacks and urging ''the start of dialogue.''
China's response to the campaign has been the most forceful, warning that the assault could bring about a ''humanitarian disaster.'' In a news briefing Tuesday, Jiang Yu, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, called for an end to hostilities. ''We've seen reports that the use of armed force is causing civilian casualties, and we oppose the wanton use of armed force leading to more civilian casualties,'' she said.
China was one of five countries to abstain from the United Nations resolution that authorized the allied airstrikes against the forces of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, which have been seeking to crush a rebellion against his four-decade rule. Russia, Brazil, India and Germany also abstained, while South Africa joined nine other Security Council members in supporting the resolution approved last week.
In its decision to abstain rather than block the resolution through its veto power, China said it was heeding the wishes of the Arab League and the African Union.
During a meeting with Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates on Tuesday, Russia's defense minister, Anatoly Serdyukov, added his voice to those calling for a cease-fire, saying it was the best way to avoid civilian casualties, according to The Associated Press. On Monday, Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin was unsparing in his criticism, comparing the allied campaign against Libya to the invasion of Iraq and likening it to a ''medieval call for a crusade.'' In a rare expression of dissent between the country's two leaders, President Dmitri A. Medvedev later criticized the remarks as unacceptable.
On Tuesday, Indian officials joined those calling for a cease-fire. Pranab Mukherjee, the country's finance minister and a leader of the lower house of Parliament, told lawmakers that the coalition had no right to oust the ruler of a sovereign nation.
The Turkish prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said Tuesday that Turkey supported providing humanitarian aid to Libya but that it would ''never be the party that points weapons at the Libyan people.'' Turkey, the only Muslim member of NATO, had opposed an alliance plan for the no-fly zone.
The Chinese news media, meanwhile, have been vociferous in expressing opposition to the military campaign against the Libyan government, with articles and commentaries depicting the assault as an attempt to grab that country's oil resources and expand American influence in the region.
A front-page article in People's Daily on Tuesday said the United Nations resolution characterizing the Libyan army's attack on civilians as a possible ''crime against humanity'' was simply cover for what it called the West's hegemonic intentions.
''Historical experience has shown that humanitarian intervention is only an excuse for military intervention into other countries' domestic affairs,'' wrote the author, Tang Zhichao, a scholar at the China Institute of Contemporary International Relations. ''They claim to be motivated by morality but in fact they are driven by narrow political and economic interests.''
An editorial in Global Times, owned by People's Daily, went further, saying that Western nations should be penalized for ''abusing'' the Security Council resolution that paved the way for the attack. ''Just let them agonize there in Libya,'' the paper said, referring to the United States and its partners. ''No matter what happens to Qaddafi, a chaotic Libya will become an unshakable burden for the West forever.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); BRIC COUNTRIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); VETO (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); APPROVALS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: PRANAB MUKHERJEE (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); ROBERT M GATES (55%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (55%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); CHINA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); BRAZIL (94%); INDIA (94%); TURKEY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



531 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEAL PROFESSOR; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: The Search for the Ingredients to Replicate Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff, a former corporate lawyer at Shearman & Sterling, is a professor at the University of Connecticut School of Law. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow @StevenDavidoff on Twitter.

 BODY:
With the rocketing valuations of social media companies, there is again hope that our economy can compete globally. The hope belies a sobering reality. Governments cannot create or even know what will be the next great entrepreneurial success. The Web's latest hits show the pitfalls of such efforts.
Facebook, Groupon and Twitter are successes backed by venture capital at an early stage. 
These companies had a timely idea, but entrepreneurial efforts and vision may have carried them to fortune. It was not just the founders, but advisers, employees and other companies that helped stir this creative spirit. Investors and advisers like lawyers exist side by side with gaggles of venture capital-financed companies and their most important resource: talented, innovative employees.
These networks have been a crucial driving force for venture capital. There are few successful venture capital communities in the United States. Silicon Valley is the one everyone knows, but Austin, Tex., and Boston are also prominent. Other emerging venture capital communities are in Boulder, Colo.; Chicago; and New York.
But all of these are organically created communities.
What causes their creation is debated. Some theorists will say that military spending in the Silicon Valley area combined with two large research institutions and corporate spinoff technology from companies like Xerox's legendary Palo Alto Research Center created a critical mass that spurred formation of the venture capital funds and lured the people who innovate.
Daniel Senor and Saul Singer recently wrote ''Start-Up Nation,'' a book about Israel, the only country that has created a venture capital network to rival Silicon Valley. They attribute Israel's success to its military and the requirement that all citizens serve a period of service. The maturity and entrepreneurial nature of the military combined with an influx of Russian emigres created Israel's venture capital network.
The book may be right, but the authors do not explain a Mark Zuckerberg, who, like most of Silicon Valley's celebrities, never served in the military.
The truth is, there is no consensus on how to create this community. This is a problem because many are trying and few are succeeding. France, Norway and Malaysia have all failed despite fervent efforts. In the United States, California still dominates. Thirty-five companies on The Wall Street Journal's 2011 list of the top 50 venture capital-backed investments are based in California. Mr. Zuckerberg started in Boston but went west to Palo Alto.
These private efforts are distinct from recent federal government initiatives. The 2007 stimulus bill provided $6 billion in loan guarantees for renewable electricity ventures. While the average private venture capital investment last year was about $4 million, according to the National Venture Capital Association, these federal investments are in the hundreds of millions of dollars and mostly go to later-stage companies. This is state subsidy of an industry, and it may be good for economic development, but the potential for misspent money is greater.
For example, Solyndra received a $535 million loan guarantee to build advanced thin-film solar panels and leapfrog technologically over Chinese manufacturers. Unfortunately, the Chinese simply lowered the cost of their labor. Solyndra has closed one plant in the United States, and its future is uncertain.
Big government programs may be good for creating whole industries to compete in established areas. South Korea and China became a tremendous economic success helped in part by focused government investing in major exporting industries. But governments are not as good as creating the next Facebook or innovative technology. This remains the domain of these venture capital networks.
Despite the need for a private element, there is a growing consensus that there is a government role in creating and fostering entrepreneurship. As the many failures illustrate, this is a slow process and requires tremendous effort and patience for an uncertain outcome, something for which money is no substitute.
Many state governments get this. States are creating business incubators and focusing efforts around the nation's big public research universities. It is hard to find a research university that does not have a tech transfer operation sitting alongside a business incubator. The university will transfer this technology for a fee to incubated companies and try to harvest new companies based on this technology. Tech transfer is usually life sciences and hardware, not Web-based businesses, but it can be significant. The University of California system made $125.3 million from licensed discoveries in 2010.
There is still the need for capital. Here the issue becomes harder. When is it appropriate for a government entity to provide capital when the market does not? In Ohio, Eric D. Fingerhut, who recently stepped down as chancellor of the Ohio State universities, led a state effort called Third Frontier to raise $700 million for alternative-energy and biomedical device initiatives.
Third Frontier provides financing alongside private investments. This effort is buttressed by a reinvigorated tech transfer program at Ohio State and business incubators in Cleveland, Cincinnati and Columbus. Ohio has not succeeded yet, but it is viewed as a leader in these efforts.
The idea is to use government money to create a network of entrepreneurs, tech people and investors that will become self-replicating. Silicon Valley is no doubt the best of the bunch, but states that are not working to foster this community are increasingly being shut out of the technology race.
These are not just public efforts. In New York, Factory TechStars has opened its fourth branch. This increasingly popular program selects 10 companies and provides seed money and mentorship. Seventy percent of their companies eventually get venture capital or ''angel'' financing. This is private, but these efforts are increasingly a place where state and private efforts exist side by side. Austin in particular benefited from the Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corporation, a now-defunct consortium that was recruited by the city to foster entrepreneurship.
No government is going to create the next Google, Microsoft or Facebook. The race is really one to create systems to nurture the next superstar company. This is a place where public and private enterprise can heavily overlap.
Creating this network is an uncertain task, though it helps to have a big research university nearby. You also need an entrepreneurial, educated culture, something the United States needs to keep building. But more states and private organizations need to focus on this goal. While the payoff is uncertain, the rewards can be spectacular.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (93%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); WRITERS (64%)

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (58%); PALO ALTO RESEARCH CENTER (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



532 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
SPENT FUEL HAMPERS EFFORT
AT JAPANESE NUCLEAR PLANT
Workers at Japan's ravaged nuclear power plant on Tuesday renewed a bid to bring its command centers back into service and to restore electricity to vital cooling systems, but an overheating pool of spent fuel hindered the effort and raised the threat of further radiation leaks. PAGE A14 
National
TUCSON SUSPECT TO TRANSFER
FOR A COMPETENCY EXAM
The first federal prison dedicated to providing treatment for physically and mentally ill federal inmates has brought a number of infamous visitors to Springfield, Mo., over the years. Now, Jared L. Loughner, who is charged with carrying out the shooting spree in Arizona that killed 6 people and wounded 13 others, is being sent to the facility to undergo tests to determine whether he is competent to stand trial. PAGE A20
COURT RULES ON WAGES CASE
Workers who complain to their employers about wage violations are protected from retaliation whether the complaints are oral or written, the Supreme Court ruled in a 6-to-2 decision. PAGE A16
New York
CUOMO PUSHING TO CLOSE
INDIAN POINT NUCLEAR PLANT
Two months after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Andrew M. Cuomo signed a petition urging that the Indian Point nuclear power complex in Westchester County be shut down for safety reasons. Now, in the aftermath of the earthquake and the tsunami that devastated Japan, Mr. Cuomo is again vowing to push for the permanent closing of the complex, this time as governor -- a far loftier perch. PAGE A23
Business
BECK CONTEMPLATES STARTING
HIS OWN CABLE CHANNEL
The possibility that Glenn Beck will exit the Fox News Channel at the end of the year has many in the media wondering how he will take his considerable audience with him. Two options Mr. Beck has contemplated, according to people who have spoken about it with him, are a partial or wholesale takeover of a cable channel, or an expansion of his subscription video service. PAGE B1
RULING IN BANK SUIT
In a potentially far-reaching decision, Germany's highest appeals court ruled that Deutsche Bank must compensate a small-business customer for losses incurred as a result of an interest-rate swap. PAGE B7
Sports
METS' LAWYERS SAY TRUSTEE
IS WITHHOLDING EVIDENCE
Karen Wagner, a lawyer for the owners of the Mets, has accused the trustee representing victims of Bernard L. Madoff's fraud, who are suing her clients, of withholding evidence that deeply undercuts the lawsuit's central allegation. The suit accuses the Mets owners of enriching themselves while ignoring warnings that Madoff's investment operation might have been suspect. PAGE B13
Arts
QUEENS GUY TOUGHS IT OUT
ON HOLLYWOOD'S BACK LOTS
In his latest Broadway solo show, ''Ghetto Klown,'' John Leguizamo break-dances across the stage and even up the aisles as he recounts his subway ride from obscurity in Queens to celebrity in Hollywood and New York. Review by Charles Isherwood. PAGE C1
Dining
ENJOYING A HINDU HOLIDAY
IN A QUEENS NEIGHBORHOOD
In Queens, the Hindu celebration of Phagwah has become a glittering pageant of Indo-Caribbean identity, and baked sweets are a major attraction. PAGE D1
Op-ed
THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A25
MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); EVIDENCE (88%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); POWER FAILURES (78%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); APPEALS (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); PRISONS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); TERRORISM (69%); CABLE TELEVISION (69%); PETITIONS (68%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); TSUNAMIS (65%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (70%); GLENN BECK (67%); BERNARD MADOFF (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (57%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (77%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



533 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Chief Expected to Testify About a Former Director in Insider-Trading Case

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
The government said late Tuesday that it intended to call Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, as a witness in the insider-trading trial of Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group hedge fund manager.
In a letter sent to a federal judge, prosecutors said they would ask Mr. Blankfein to testify about Rajat K. Gupta, a former Goldman director who this month was accused by the Securities and Exchange Commission of passing along confidential information about the bank to Mr. Rajaratnam.
Federal prosecutors asked Judge Richard J. Holwell, who is presiding over the trial, to prohibit the defense from asking Mr. Blankfein whether Goldman Sachs bore responsibility for the financial crisis and whether the bank was the subject of any pending government investigation. 
In the letter, prosecutors also said that it had ''not notified Mr. Blankfein or Goldman Sachs that either is a target (or, for that matter, a subject) of any pending criminal investigation.''
On the issue of the financial crisis, the government argued that whether Goldman played any role in that crisis was wholly irrelevant to testimony about Mr. Gupta and any evidence on this topic could prejudice the jury against Mr. Blankfein's testimony.
Regardless of the substance of Mr. Blankfein's testimony, his presence on the witness stand will add to the already intense attention surrounding the prominent trial, which is in its third week in United States District Court in Manhattan.
Azam Ahmed and Guilbert Gates/The New York Times Click on the above graphic to get a visual overview of the Galleon information network
On Tuesday, the government called to the witness stand Rajiv Goel, a former Intel executive and business school classmate of Mr. Rajaratnam. Mr. Goel, a soft-spoken Indian-born businessman who has pleaded guilty to insider trading charges, is a main cooperating witness for the government.
Mr. Goel testified that he provided assistance to Mr. Rajaratnam by feeding him secret business information about Intel, including crucial financial data in advance of a quarterly earnings announcement.
But the bulk of Mr. Goel's testimony was about how Mr. Rajaratnam, a hedge fund billionaire, provided financial support to him.
Mr. Goel, 52, described how in 2005 Mr. Rajaratnam lent him $100,000 to buy a house. A year later, said Mr. Goel, Mr. Rajaratnam gave him $500,000 as a gift to help him with a family matter.
Around that same time, Mr. Rajaratnam offered his trading expertise and began buying and selling stocks in Mr. Goel's brokerage account.
When Reed Brodsky, the prosecutor, asked Mr. Goel why he gave Mr. Rajaratnam inside tips, he said his motivation was friendship.
''Raj and I were very good friends,'' Mr. Goel said. ''We shared a lot and I gave him information.''
The two met in the early 1980s in Philadelphia as South Asian immigrants who had come to the United States for an elite business education at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
While Mr. Rajaratnam ascended on Wall Street, Mr. Goel was a journeyman finance executive. Over nearly two decades, Mr. Goel held a series of midlevel executive posts, some in the United States and some in India, at companies including Met Life and Bank of America. In 2000, he landed a job in Intel's treasury group.
Despite his consistent employment, Mr. Goel looked to Mr. Rajaratnam for financial support. In 2005, Mr. Goel, who said he did not know how to trade, asked Mr. Rajaratnam if he could make him some money in his brokerage account. Mr. Rajaratnam agreed, and over five years made Mr. Goel about $750,000 in trading profits, according to Tuesday's testimony.
The government spent much of Tuesday afternoon dissecting two of Mr. Rajaratnam's profitable trades in Mr. Goel's account. The first was the purchase of ATI Technologies in March 2006 just before its acquisition by Advanced Micro Devices. The second was buying shares of @Road Inc. just before it was bought by Trimble. Those trades, the government says, were the fruits of insider trading.
Much of Tuesday morning's testimony touched on the legal question of what exactly constituted insider trading. The prosecution and defense continued to battle over whether stock tips provided to Mr. Rajaratnam were material nonpublic information or merely confidential information. The former constitutes insider trading under federal securities law.
The stock at the center of the debate was Clearwire. The government questioned Sriram Viswanathan, an executive at Intel, which owned a minority stake in Clearwire and was in talks to invest $1 billion more in a new venture with the wireless company.
Prosecutors played a secretly recorded telephone conversation between Mr. Rajaratnam and Mr. Goel during which Mr. Goel divulged details about the precise amount of money that Intel and other companies were investing in the venture.
Mr. Viswanathan told the jury that this was confidential information and that if Intel had know Mr. Goel was sharing it he would have been fired ''spontaneously.''
During cross examination, Terence J. Lynam, Mr. Rajaratnam's lawyer, argued that Mr. Goel's tips were not information that Mr. Rajaratnam, or any money manager for that matter, would have considered material.
Besides, Mr. Lynam argued, much of the confidential information that Mr. Goel provided Mr. Rajaratnam was already in the public sphere via newspaper articles and analyst reports.
As Mr. Goel leaked internal goings-on at Intel, he also appeared to be frustrated with his career. In one recorded phone conversation, Mr. Goel told Mr. Rajaratnam:
''Hey get me a job with one of your powerful friends, man. I'm tired of this company.''
He also asked Mr. Rajaratnam for an introduction to his powerful friends.
In one e-mail, Mr. Goel asked Mr. Rajaratnam, ''if you have any connection to Milken, I would truly appreciate that,'' an apparent reference to Michael R. Milken, the 1980s financier who served prison time for securities violations relating to that era's insider-trading scandal.
Prosecutors' Letter About Lloyd Blankfein
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Raj Rajaratnam, right, accused of insider trading at the Galleon Group hedge fund, with John Dowd, one of his lawyers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOUIS LANZANO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); JUDGES (77%); JURY TRIALS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); INTEL CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (91%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



534 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Afghans to Take Over Security in 7 Areas, Mostly Peaceful, by July

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA and ROD NORDLAND; Ray Rivera reported from Mazar-i-Sharif, and Rod Nordland from Kabul, Afghanistan. Enayat Najafizada and Sharifullah Sahak contributed reporting from Mazar-i-Sharif, and Sangar Rahimi from Kabul.

 BODY:
MAZAR-I-SHARIF, Afghanistan -- The target could not have been more inviting: hundreds of thousands of Afghans, government officials and foreign dignitaries converging on the ancient blue-tiled shrine in the center of this relatively peaceful northern city for the celebration of Nowruz, the Persian New Year.
Each year the Taliban, who had forbidden the celebration as un-Islamic under their rule, have threatened to disrupt the festivities at the Blue Mosque with violence. The intelligence chatter seemed particularly alarming this year, government officials say, coming with an influx of violence and assassinations in neighboring provinces. 
Despite the threats, there were no American or international soldiers to be seen here during this week's celebration. The thousands of uniformed police officers, border guards and army soldiers trucked in to secure the festivities were all Afghan.
As the United States begins withdrawing several thousand troops from Afghanistan this July, the first step toward Afghans' assuming responsibility for their own security by the end of 2014, the festival provided a precursor of what post-NATO-led security might be like in places like Mazar-i-Sharif.
Mazar-i-Sharif is one of seven areas that will be the first to be transferred to full Afghan control, President Hamid Karzai said Tuesday in a speech in Kabul. Mr. Karzai said that by mid-July Afghans would begin taking over from the NATO-led coalition in all of Panjshir and Bamian Provinces and in several cities: here in Mazar-i-Sharif; Herat in the west; Lashkar Gah, capital of Helmand Province in the south; and Mehtarlam, capital of Laghman Province in the east.
In addition, he listed all of Kabul Province except the troubled Sarobi District, although Afghan forces have been in effective charge of Kabul for two years now, aside from NATO forces guarding their own bases.
But as a precondition, Mr. Karzai insisted that the international community funnel aid money directly to his government, and many donors do not feel Afghanistan is ready to handle it. Mr. Karzai also criticized his coalition partners, three times denouncing instances of civilian casualties and calling for night raids to be stopped.
This, he said, ''is a prerequisite for any successful partnership and collaboration to continue.''
The transition announcement, made in a speech before graduating military cadets, had been widely anticipated. The only modest surprises were Lashkar Gah and Mehtarlam, both in provinces with widespread insurgent activity. Bamian and Panjshir are peaceful, and the cities of Herat and Mazar-i-Sharif have only small coalition contingents now, all non-American.
Mazar-i-Sharif was the first city to be abandoned by the Taliban during the United States-led invasion in 2001. American and NATO soldiers rarely patrol here.
In Helmand and Laghman Provinces, skepticism greeted the president's announcement. ''I think it's too early even to think about the security transition to Afghan forces,'' said Mohammad Hassan Mamozia, a member of Parliament from Laghman, who complained that police and army forces there were far too few in number to stand up to the Taliban alone.
In Lashkar Gah, a member of the provincial council, Malika Helmandi, also said Afghan forces were too few in number. ''It's still early to say goodbye to foreigners,'' she said. ''Afghan national security forces have not gained the trust of the public so far. Most of them are drug users, mostly poorly trained, poorly equipped with low morale and no public support.''
A Taliban spokesman, Zabiullah Mujahid, called the announcement nothing more than a ''symbolic act to deceive the people,'' and he added that ''it won't help resolve the main problem, which is the occupation of Afghanistan by foreign forces.''
What exactly the transition will mean here in Mazar-i-Sharif, where Afghan forces have already been largely in control for most of the war, is hard to say. Local military commanders and political officials say they expect business as usual, but intoned a sense of dread if things like training, equipment and air support from international forces were suddenly cut off.
The resurgence of Taliban in the neighboring provinces of Kunduz and Baghlan has deepened those worries, as well as disrupting the bustling trade that has made Mazar-i-Sharif one of the country's economic hubs. ''If the international forces just pulled up and left, it would be a disaster,'' said Gen. Abdul Rauf Taj, the deputy police chief of Balkh Province, of which Mazar-i-Sharif is the capital.
At the same time, though, government officials point to Monday's New Year's celebration as evidence that Afghan forces are capable of securing themselves.
Afghan security checkpoints dotted the roads leading into Mazar-i-Sharif. Heavily armed checkpoints outside the city stopped every car before entering the city, checking for weapons and explosives. And hundreds of thousands of visitors were herded into small groups -- sometimes, harshly, with rifle butts -- and patted down before passing into the shrine.
''This is an example of our Afghan forces stepping up security,'' said Atta Muhammad Noor, the governor of Balkh Province and a former mujahedeen commander who has been credited with helping create stability here since taking leadership in 2004. ''We told the international forces we didn't need them on our roads.''
Still, he cautioned, the security gains here could be fragile if more is not done to improve local forces before international forces depart.
That includes paying close attention to quality and quantity of training and educating Afghan security forces, supplying them with modern weapons and vehicles, and rehabilitating the Afghan air force, he said.
In a news conference last week, Maj. Gen. Markus Kneip of Germany, commander of the International Security Assistance Force, or ISAF, in the north, vowed to continue supporting Afghan troops with equipment, training and recruitment.
''However,'' he added, ''in recent months we have had many operations in the north in which Afghan security forces were leading it and ISAF was just acting as a supporter.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A checkpoint outside Mazar-i-Sharif, Afghanistan, last week. Mazar-i-Sharif is one of seven areas that will be the first to be transferred to full Afghan control.
 Afghan police officers outside the Blue Mosque in Mazar-i-Sharif. American and NATO soldiers rarely patrol in the city. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RELIGION (77%); ARMIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); BORDER CONTROL (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAZAR-E SHARIF, AFGHANISTAN (94%); LASHKAR GAH, AFGHANISTAN (93%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



535 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Obama Calls for an Economic Cure for Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
SAN SALVADOR -- President Obama ended his three-nation Latin American tour on Tuesday with a visit to El Salvador, a source of one of the largest immigrant groups in the United States, and agreed with its president that ''the best strategy'' for curbing illegal immigration was to create economic growth in the region.
Mr. Obama, in a private meeting and a subsequent news conference with El Salvador's president, Mauricio Funes, said he remained committed to seeking a comprehensive overhaul of immigration law that both enhances American border security and provides a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants who have lived for years in the United States and have jobs and families. 
But that legislative goal, which Mr. Obama shelved in his first two years in office as he focused on the economy and overhauling the health-insurance system, is moribund now that Republicans, who oppose a citizenship process, have taken control of the House. In the news conference, Mr. Obama noted that some Republicans, including his 2008 presidential rival, Senator John McCain of Arizona, previously supported a comprehensive approach.
''My hope,'' he said, ''is that they begin to recognize over the next year that we can't solve this problem without taking a broad, comprehensive approach'' -- a prospect that is not considered at all likely as the 2012 elections approach. ''The politics of this are difficult,'' Mr. Obama conceded, ''but ultimately I am confident that we are going to get it done.''
Mr. Obama, summarizing the leaders' private meeting, said, ''President Funes is committed to creating more economic opportunities here in El Salvador so that people don't feel like they have to head north to provide for their families,'' or ''join a criminal drug network'' in order to stay in the country.
But unlike in Brazil and Chile, Mr. Obama's first two stops and countries with growing economies, El Salvador has had low rates of economic growth in the past decade and drug-related crime has flourished. The two presidents outlined ways in which El Salvador and the United States were working as partners with other nations in the hemisphere -- from Canada to Chile -- to address drug trafficking and economic development, including by involving the private sector in job-creation efforts.
It is estimated that more than two million people from El Salvador are now in the United States, legally and illegally. That is equal to about a third of this country's current population, underscoring the scale of migration north in the three decades since the civil war of the 1980s began here, a conflict in which the United States backed the rightist government against the leftist rebels.
Before an official dinner, Mr. Obama visited the Metropolitan Cathedral, which holds the tomb of Archbishop Oscar Romero, who was assassinated in 1980 and is now a national hero.
Mr. Obama had planned to visit the crypt on Wednesday, the eve of the anniversary of the assassination, but moved it up so he could return to Washington a couple of hours earlier. He will return to the United States after a conference call with his national security team about the conflict in Libya, which has overshadowed the trip to Latin America.
Online Correction: March 23, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the date of the anniversary of Archbishop Oscar Romero's assassination. The anniversary is March 24; President Obama's planned visit to the crypt on Wednesday would have fallen on the eve of the anniversary, not the anniversary itself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama was greeted Tuesday by schoolchildren in San Salvador, where he ended a three-nation Latin American tour. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); CITIZENSHIP (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) EL SALVADOR (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); CHILE (92%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011



536 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Your Money; A SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: A Homeowner With No Savings, but Some Options

BYLINE: By TESS VIGELAND

 BODY:
GRASS VALLEY, Calif.
I F you're worried that you haven't saved enough for retirement, you're probably right. Most of us haven't. In fact, the Employee Benefit Research Institute found the majority of American workers had put away less than $25,000 for their golden years.
But even those people are in better financial shape than Susanna Wilson, 70, who saved nothing.
Her only dependable income is a Social Security check of about $900 a month. 
''I can never retire,'' she said, her voice trembling as she stared at the floor of her living room in Grass Valley, Calif. ''Probably about every two weeks when the bills are due, that's when I get really worried. I think 'How am I going to pay this one?' ''
It should never have come to this. Ms. Wilson attended the University of California, Berkeley, in the late 1950s, though she left before graduating to move to New York and marry her college sweetheart, the Minimalist sculptor and sometime rock musician Walter De Maria.
Ms. Wilson spent her prime earning years engaged in various creative endeavors in New York, mostly as a designer. Her clothing line, O'Susanna, found a home in the late 1970s at Saks Fifth Avenue and Bloomingdale's. Glamour and Seventeen magazines featured Perfumes by Susanna, including a popular fragrance called Strawberry Love.
In her 40s, Ms. Wilson moved to California and became a publicist. At her peak, she made around $65,000 a year, she said, and not a penny of that made its way into a retirement fund. ''One thing kind of led to another,'' Ms. Wilson said. ''I've always put all my money into my businesses. And I always thought the business I was in was going to be a great success.'' She also raised a daughter, Corie, 36, who lives in Los Angeles with her two children and is not in a position to help her mother financially.
Now twice divorced and living alone with her Shetland Sheepdog, Rooney, Ms. Wilson subsists on those government checks, plus a one-day-a-week job at a local jewelry store that pays $12.50 an hour. She received no alimony from either divorce. Ms. Wilson also makes little girls' dresses under her O'Susanna label, at a vintage Singer Featherweight sewing machine in her dining room. But she sells only about six a month for around $200.
Grass Valley, an old gold mining town of 12,300 residents in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada, near Lake Tahoe, isn't an expensive place to live. But Ms. Wilson isn't the only one struggling. Her friend Molly Fisk, 55, a poet and teacher, was visiting the house and joked that her retirement planning was ''all tied up in MasterCard futures. Sad but true.''
Ms. Wilson would probably manage on her current income, though not without sacrifice, were it not for the debt she had accumulated. All told, she averages about $1,400 in monthly income, including Social Security (adjusted for one of her former husbands' earnings). A third of that goes toward fixed expenses like utilities. She pays $300 toward a mortgage balance of $5,477. She inherited the house, fully paid off, from her parents, but took out the mortgage a few years ago to pay for repairs.
The balance of her income goes toward the monthly minimum payments on $9,000 in credit card debt, racked up for daily living expenses. ''I think I might just have to declare bankruptcy,'' she said. ''I just can't live with that.''
Before she takes that drastic step, Ms. Wilson should consider some other options, said Elizabeth Rutter Baer, a certified financial planner in Lansing, Mich. She worries that Ms. Wilson is ''extremely close'' to the edge and isn't getting anywhere with her debt payments because she keeps putting more expenses, like food, on her credit cards.
Yes, she could try to find other income, Ms. Baer said. But that's a short-term solution. At some point, despite her excellent health, Ms. Wilson may not be able to work. ''Bankruptcy is possible, but my advice is, let's liquidate assets and get those debts paid off,'' Ms. Baer said.
To that end, Ms. Baer recommended something she said she had never before suggested: a reverse mortgage. Such mortgages allow homeowners to tap existing home equity to receive a lump sum or monthly checks. Unlike a home equity loan, however, borrowers don't have to make any repayments until they no longer live in the home. The strategy can be risky, with high fees and sometimes poor counseling for borrowers. Reverse mortgages are available only to homeowners 62 or older.
''Susanna is the ideal candidate,'' Ms. Baer said. ''This is one instance where it could work.''
The house is valued from $150,000 to $200,000. Ms. Baer said Ms. Wilson should work with a bank to see if she could wrap the current mortgage into a reverse and then take cash out. Ms. Wilson is already making phone calls to explore the idea.
Ms. Baer also noted that Ms. Wilson was part owner, with her two brothers, of several tracts of timberland in northern California. The land's value has dropped because of the economy, but Ms. Baer said that shouldn't stop them from selling it.
''Whatever the purpose of this land was before, today's the rainy day,'' she said. ''It may not be that much, but at this point $25,000 would change her life, totally.'' Ms. Wilson said she was discussing this with her brothers and a real estate agent.
Ms. Baer, who is 67 and single, said there were particular financial difficulties facing single people as they aged. Even people in a relationship should make financial plans that can work even if they were to be single during retirement, she said, adding, ''Nobody knows who's going to be there at the end.''
Ms. Wilson agreed with that assessment. ''I have friends, and they're two people together, and it's a lot easier.'' At that point she again spoke through tears. ''My Mom would say, 'Why don't you just go and get married?' and that's just not me,'' she said. ''I believe you have to love somebody.''
Ms. Baer's advice provided a push for her to explore some options she had already thought about, but hadn't followed through on, Ms. Wilson said, because she had been paralyzed by the fear of what might happen if she could no longer generate extra income. Overcoming that fear will be key to recovering her financial health. And she's confident that will happen.
''I don't want to be a Pollyanna,'' Ms. Wilson said. ''But tomorrow is another day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Susanna Wilson, 70, makes little girls' dresses to supplement a meager Social Security check. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNE CHADWICK WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (75%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (73%); CLOTHING LABELS (71%); CHILDREN (70%); POP & ROCK (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); MUSIC (66%); WRITERS (65%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



537 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Your Money; A SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Balancing Debt Against College Choice

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
SHUTESBURY, Mass.
WHEN the financial aid award letter arrived from Juniata College several weeks ago, Mino Caulton and his parents had many reasons to celebrate.
He had been accepted, an accomplishment in itself for a dyslexic 18-year-old who has refused to take any extra time on his tests for much of high school.
Juniata, in Huntingdon, Pa., gave $18,500 in grants, not bad for a college with an endowment of much less than $100 million.
But it was not enough, not even close. Mino's parents, whose household income has fallen 80 percent in the economic downturn, have little for his education now. Juniata wanted him to borrow $6,500 his freshman year and would probably suggest more in future years. And finally there was the $10,000 or so, beyond the grants and loans, that he would need to pay the total cost of attendance, more than $43,000. 
His parents could borrow it, or he could borrow it himself if a bank offered him more in higher-rate student loans, aside from the federally subsidized $6,500.
So he has a question to answer, a choice that most 18-year-olds have no idea how to make and that a vast majority of parents are ill-equipped to consider as well: just how much sacrifice should teenagers (and often their parents) make to attend a high-quality liberal arts college, when a perfectly good community college is just up the road?
Both of Mino's parents are struggling to help him sort it out. His father, Greg Caulton, did not attend college and apprenticed himself to a graphic design company in Australia, where he grew up. ''There were 20 institutions of higher learning,'' he said. ''And the costs there are still structured in a way that it can't ruin your life.''
His mother, Emily Bayard, is a college graduate, but she attended city schools in New York when they cost next to nothing.
While they did not anticipate a six-figure bill or the possibility of five-figure debt for their only child, they did raise Mino to watch his pennies.
''I have a 10-second memory of my dad telling me that I don't need an inch of toothpaste,'' he said. ''And I got a lot of hand-me-downs, which I still wear. Why spend money on new clothes when these ones fit?''
Mino remembers the money he earned from a Mother's Day lemonade stand years ago ($6) and from picking strawberries and tomatoes at a local organic farm ($25, cash on the barrel). He'll gladly run for six hours straight if he can pick up four consecutive games of referee work in youth soccer leagues, at $35 a game.
Though Mino spends hardly anything, he has not saved enough to make a dent in private college tuition. So he applied to some financial safety schools: Greenfield Community College nearby and the flagship University of Massachusetts campus in Amherst. He is not sure that a big state school can provide more individualized instruction.
So how much should he sacrifice to get it? Zac Bissonnette, the 22-year-old author of ''Debt-Free U,'' a 2010 book that encourages families to borrow as little as possible in pursuit of a child's bachelor's degree, was practically foaming at the mouth with anger when Mino showed him his letter from Juniata.
The college's subtle word choices reflect a cavalier attitude toward debt, Mr. Bissonnette said. ''Your parents may further reduce 2011-12 educational expenses by applying for the Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students (PLUS),'' the letter read.
''I think it's sleazy to send a letter to a student suggesting that their parents borrow $10,180,'' Mr. Bissonnette said. ''If you're going to send someone a letter suggesting they should borrow $10,000, you should send it to them.''
He also rejected the idea that loans reduced expenses. ''Borrowing money to pay for something doesn't reduce the expense,'' he said. ''It increases it, because you have to pay interest.''
John T. Wall, a spokesman for Juniata, said the college planned to change its wording in response to that criticism and added that it began encouraging parents to borrow over 10 years ago to remind families that there was an alternative to students taking on additional higher-interest debt to pay for college.
Mino's parents cannot afford any debt, though they say they are tempted. Mino does not want them to give in. ''It's going to be my education, so I don't feel like it's their responsibility,'' he said.
His lifelong financial prudence has left him wary of too much student loan debt of his own, meanwhile. That's a problem, however, because he cannot shake the feeling that a private college like Juniata would offer the richest educational options.
Mr. Bissonnette is a senior at the University of Massachusetts, where he covered his costs through writing and savings from other work. He contends Mino can make that big school feel like a small one with a bit of effort. He said that most undergraduates did not turn up for office hours or stay after class to soak up additional wisdom from the professor. If Mino did, he would stand out.
As for the community college option, Mino says his practical side has been leaning toward it all along. But given that he attends the rigorous Amherst Regional High School, he says he cannot shake the feeling that community college means settling for less.
''The general consensus, especially in Amherst, where kids are really motivated by going to Harvard, is that going to community college is what you do when you're poor,'' he said. ''And that it's an inferior option.''
Mr. Bissonnette's response to that is to point to a stunning lack of data on the comparative effectiveness of expensive schools and cheaper ones. He notes, however, that star community college students occasionally win admission as transfer students to the best colleges. Such institutions often have large enough endowments to afford financial aid awards that do not require students to borrow.
While Mino leans toward community college, he hopes that Clark University or one of the other private colleges that accepted him will ask him and his family for less out of pocket. And he stands by his longstanding career goal of working toward the greater good, even if it means he will not earn as much as his fellow college graduates.
Mr. Bissonnette is not so worried about Mino, who he said seemed smart and hard-working enough to succeed, no matter what college he attends. But Mr. Bissonnette worries about public interest-minded 18-year-olds nationwide who, in the absence of any universal truths about what a degree from a particular university is worth, are vulnerable to believing whatever the last person they spoke to told them.
''The most important thing you can do is to preserve that financial flexibility so you can do that service work,'' he said. ''And not kind of lock yourself in to this long-term path where you owe a lot of money because someone told you that some of these colleges were going to offer a lot of long-term value.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: QUANDARY: Mino Caulton, 18, got a grant for college, but he or his parents would have to go into debt to cover the total bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRATEEK RAJBHANDARI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); PARENTS (78%); DYSLEXIA (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (64%); YOUTH SPORTS (60%); SOCCER (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



538 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Once Rare in Rural America, Divorce Is Changing the Face of Its Families

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and ROBERT GEBELOFF; Sabrina Tavernise reported from Sioux Center, and Robert Gebeloff from New York.

 BODY:
SIOUX COUNTY, Iowa -- In the 1970s, the divorce rate was so low in this rural northwest Iowa County that it resembled the rest of America in the 1910s. Most of its 28,000 residents were churchgoers, few of its women were in the work force, and divorce was simply not done.
So it is a bitter mark of modernity that even here, divorce has swept in, up nearly sevenfold since 1970, giving the county the unwelcome distinction of being a standout in this category of census data.
Divorce is still less common here than the national average, but its sharp jump illustrates a fundamental change in the patterns of family life. 
Forty years ago, divorced people were more concentrated in cities and suburbs. But geographic distinctions have all but vanished, and now, for the first time, rural Americans are just as likely to be divorced as city dwellers, according to an analysis of census data by The New York Times.
''Rural families are going through this incredible transformation,'' said Daniel T. Lichter, a sociology professor at Cornell University.
The shifts that started in cities have spread to less populated regions -- women going to work, gaining autonomy, and re-arranging the order of traditional families. Values have changed, too, easing the stigma of divorce.
''In the bottom ranks, men have lost ground and women have gained,'' said June Carbone, a law professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City and co-author of ''Red Families v. Blue Families.''
''A blue-collar guy has less to offer today than he did in 1979,'' Professor Carbone added. Those shifting forces, she said, ''create a mismatch between expectation and reality'' that can result in women becoming frustrated and leaving, because now they can.
Since 1990, class has become an increasingly reliable predictor of family patterns, Professor Carbone said. College-educated Americans are now more likely to get married and stay married than those with only a high school diploma, a change from 20 years ago, she said, when differences were much smaller.
That trend has been particularly important for rural areas, which have fallen further behind urban ones in education, according to census data. Just one in six rural residents have college degrees, far fewer than in cities, where one in three do. Nationally, there were about 121 million married adults and 26 million divorced people in 2009, compared with about 100 million married and 11 million divorced people in 1980.
Education drew a dividing line for Nancy Vermeer, a 52-year-old resident of Sioux County. She had married her high school sweetheart, a young man from a farming family. He never went further than high school, but she went on to college, and later earned a master's degree. He worked in a window factory. She became a music teacher. He gambled. They grew apart. Eventually, he asked for a divorce.
''I grew more confident,'' Ms. Vermeer said. ''We were totally different people.''
When Ms. Vermeer divorced in 2002, she became the first teacher in her Christian school to do so. Divorce was more common than it had been in past decades, but she still felt judged, so she developed habits to keep a low profile, like going to the grocery when no one she knew would be there.
''There's a perception here that you need to be perfect,'' said the Rev. John Lee, a young pastor who has tried to encourage change in Sioux County by taking on taboo topics like divorce and mental illness in his sermons.
''Cars are washed, lawns are mowed in patterns and children are smiling,'' Mr. Lee added. ''When you admit weakness, you invite shame.''
The reason can be traced to Sioux County's roots. About 80 percent of residents, most of whom are descendants of Dutch immigrants, belong to a major denomination church, compared with 36 percent of all Americans.
Its main city, Sioux Center, issued its first liquor license in the late 1970s. Stores were closed on Sundays for decades, and women's participation in the work force was far below the national average.
Very few people divorced. In 1980, there were more than 52 married people for every divorced person, according to census data, a rate not seen on a national level since the 1930s.
Craig Lane, a divorce lawyer from the area, described the county's conservative nature like this: ''If steam is coming from your dryer vent on Sunday, you'll hear about it from your neighbor.''
Time has worn away some of its old values. These days, Sioux Center looks more like a suburb than a village. There is a McDonald's and a mall, where residents shop to the sound of Christian music. Women's lives have changed too. More women than men have college degrees, and there are now just 14 married people to every divorced person.
''As we get more education we get more confidence and more income,'' Ms. Vermeer said, ''women are saying, 'Look, she finally had the guts to stand up and walk out.' ''
Sioux Center might be rural, but it is relatively affluent, buoyed by a biotech industry and a stable manufacturing base. Its Christian college, Dordt, is a major presence.
But for less fortunate places, social change is laced with a bitter new economic reality. Brian Janssen, the pastor at the church in Hospers, east of Sioux Center, speaks wistfully about an earlier time, when families were closer and more tied to the land. Now, he can count on one hand the number of young people from his church who have stayed in town.
''The community begins to become like senior housing,'' Mr. Janssen said. ''Dialysis center, old person living.''
Less educated Americans are far more likely to have babies while unmarried -- and to divorce -- than those with college degrees, Professor Carbone said.
That trend, once seen as a symptom of urban poverty, has now caught on in rural areas like this one. Leesa McNeil, a court administrator for a district that covers a wide area of northwest Iowa, said that custody cases involving unmarried people used to be so rare that the court did not even have a category for them.
''That was a phenomenon that smacked us 10 years ago,'' Ms. McNeil said.
Maria Kefalas, a sociology professor at St. Joseph's University in Philadelphia and co-author of ''Hollowing Out the Middle,'' a 2009 book about the migration of the educated class from rural Iowa, said that changes in families have been profound. She noted that the alarm sounded by Daniel Patrick Moynihan in 1965 about the rise of out-of-wedlock births among African-Americans applies to the country as a whole today: One in three babies is born to unmarried parents.
''It has hit the whitest, most married, most idyllic heart of America -- Iowa,'' Professor Kefalas said. ''The cultural narrative about marriage -- you get a job, you marry your sweetheart, you buy a house, you educate your kids -- has been torn to shreds. Without that economic foundation, the story cannot support itself.''
In Sioux County, Ms. Vermeer has remarried. She is happy, she said, and her life makes sense.
''I think women were very miserable for very many years, and that's changing,'' she said. ''Things are not so black and white. There are so many gray areas.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: When Nancy Vermeer divorced in 2002, she was the first teacher at her Christian school in Sioux County to do so.
The Rev. John Lee, pastor of Bethel Christian Reformed Church in Sioux Center, tries to encourage more openness in his congregation to social changes like increasing instances of divorce. (A18)
Wayside Chapel in Sioux Center. Much of the town seems more suburb than village. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENN ACKERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) GRAPHICS: Rural-Urban Gap: A generation ago, Americans were far less likely to be divorced if they lived outside of metropolitan areas, particularly in the upper Midwest. But the divorced population has grown much faster than the married population in rural America, and the rural-urban distinction in marital status has disappeared. (Sources: Census
American Community Survey
Economic Research Service
 University of Minnesota Population Center) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); FAMILY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); CITIES (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (85%); MARRIAGE (78%); CENSUS (76%); TRENDS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (66%); RELIGION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



539 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Census Lessons for Detroit From Memphis's 1870s Loss

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Detroit's condition may look bleak. The news on Tuesday that the city had lost 25 percent of its population over the last decade -- the highest percentage loss for any American city with more than 100,000 people -- was grim indeed. 
But another city, Memphis, appears to have the distinction of having once lost the highest percentage of its population for an American city of any size.
In the 1870s, a series of outbreaks of yellow fever swept through the Mississippi River Valley, killing thousands of people. In 1878, the epidemic reduced the population of Memphis by perhaps as much as 50 percent.
In 1878 alone, the population of about 40,000 dropped by more than half, said Charles W. Crawford, a professor who specializes in Memphis history at the University of Memphis. He said he was not aware of any other city that had lost a greater percentage of its population in one fell swoop. New Orleans lost 29 percent after Hurricane Katrina struck in 2005.
Mr. Crawford said that an estimated 5,500 people in Memphis died in 1878 while perhaps 15,000 fled. ''Everyone was crowding the steamboat landings and the railroad station,'' he said. ''Politicians left first.''
The sudden absence of so many people at once nearly destroyed the city. But many of those who fled returned later because they owned property, and by 1880, the population had climbed to more than 33,000.
Still, the city would take 15 years to recover economically. In the 1890s, the growth rate mushroomed to almost 60 percent. By the turn of the century, Memphis was Tennessee's largest city, with more than 102,000 people.
In 2010, Memphis was home to 647,000 people. The loss of about 3,000 over the last decade -- 0.5 percent of the population -- seems barely a blip on the radar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); HURRICANES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



540 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Investors Place Record Wager on Japanese Funds

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Some investors may be already shrugging off Japan's crisis.
Even as the aftershocks from the earthquake pushed financial markets sharply lower last week, American investors poured $1.2 billion into Japanese equity exchange-traded funds, or E.T.F.'s., according to new data. It was the biggest weekly inflow on record, a trend suggesting that some investors are already betting that the crisis may be just an interruption to a market rally.
On March 16 alone, five days after the earthquake and tsunami and as the nation's nuclear crisis was worsening, investors put $700 million into Japanese E.T.F.'s, according to the data from TrimTabs, an investment research organization. That was twice the previous largest daily inflow on record, in 2003. 
The latest market trends show that investors are cautiously stepping back into stocks. Markets in the United States rose this week as worries about the situation at the Fukushima nuclear plant subsided somewhat. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has rallied back to just 0.8 percent below the highest point on March 11.
Market strategists are also looking beyond Japan's crisis, calculating that it may have only a limited impact on the United States and the rest of the world, provided that the nuclear crisis does not significantly worsen.
''Through the volatility, the story stays the same,'' economists at Morgan Stanley concluded in a research report published Wednesday. In the report, the economists estimated that although the earthquake and its aftermath might push Japan back into recession this year, it would shave a fraction of a percentage point off global growth this year.
''Though not trivial, this shouldn't derail the relatively robust global recovery,'' the report concluded.
The latest data from TrimTabs is based on inflows into seven Japanese equity E.T.F.'s, which are similar to mutual funds but trade like a stock on public exchanges. The biggest of these funds is offered by BlackRock's iShares unit and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Investments began to flow into Japanese E.T.F.'s in December, and there had been three consecutive months of inflows before the earthquake. E.T.F.'s have become popular trading vehicles among short-term traders, and the inflows have had more to do with speculative positioning rather than a vote of confidence in a rebound in the Japanese economy.
After the earthquake, investors waited for two trading days before acting. But on Wednesday, March 16, after stocks in Tokyo fell by about 10 percent, investors in the United States responded by moving heavily into E.T.F.'s.
One reason may be that Japanese stocks still have far to go in their recovery. Though the Nikkei 225 index in Tokyo has bounced back from recent lows, it is still down 9.43 percent since before the earthquake.
Minyi Chen, Asia equity analyst at TrimTabs, said that the latest purchases were driven by retail investors spotting a long-term buying opportunity, rather than by short-term traders.
''Buyers began to emerge almost immediately.'' he said. ''Extremely low valuations brought in bargain shoppers.''
Typically, institutional investors like pension funds, hedge funds and short-term traders make up about only 10 percent of the holders of the Japanese E.T.F.'s, he said. The inflows have continued this week -- with another $371 million flowing in on Monday and Tuesday, he said.
While retail investors may have been pouring into Japanese stocks through E.T.F.'s, hedge funds were selling United States stocks as the crisis unfolded.
According to research by Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch, hedge funds built up their short positions in futures on the S.& P. 500, meaning they were taking bigger bets that the stock market would be dragged down by the crisis in Japan. They also took short positions on Nasdaq 100 futures and on futures of small cap companies in the Russell 2000 index.
Eric Fine, who manages Van Eck G-175 Strategies and helps advise Van Eck Global, which has $3 billion in emerging market assets, cautioned that markets were still not out of trouble.
He said there was still a risk to the global economy if the yen strengthened more, and if any further dollar weakness caused a crisis of confidence in the currency. A worsening situation in Libya could also put more upward pressure on the oil price.
''We are in a 65-35 percent world,'' Mr. Fine said. ''There is a 65 percent probability of markets slowly grinding upward, and a 35 percent chance of a more severe recognition of these risks.''
At least one longer-term investor said that he had taken advantage of the market drop. David Marcus, a former hedge fund manager who now oversees Evermore Global Advisors, a mutual fund in New Jersey with $70 million under management, said that he had begun to buy positions in companies like Siemens in Europe and in some United States bank stocks as the Japanese crisis pushed stock markets down worldwide last week.
Mr. Marcus said that his fund had not yet invested in Japanese stocks, but he was now looking more closely at Japanese companies, including in the infrastructure sector, which may benefit from the rebuilding after the earthquake and tsunami.
He said he was considering broader investments in Japan but that this step would depend on whether the crisis became a catalyst for broader political and economic reform in the country. ''This could kick-start the political process, but we are not there yet,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Americans may be seeing a buying opportunity with the Nikkei still down since the earthquake. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVERETT KENNEDY BROWN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (90%); TRENDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); TSUNAMIS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); POWER PLANTS (70%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (70%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



541 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Shares Gain as Metal Prices Lift Commodity Producers

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Stock prices rose on Wednesday as shares of commodity producers pulled the broader market higher despite dismal housing sales and a failure by Bank of America to secure approval to raise its dividend. 
Commodity producer shares rose more than 1 percent after industrial and precious metal prices surged, leading to a late afternoon recovery in stock prices. Freeport McMoran, Newmont Mining and Alcoa all rose more than 3 percent.
Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential Financial, said that ''headline risk'' from events overseas eased on Wednesday. ''The market doesn't seem to be as obsessed with headlines from the Middle East and Japan,'' she said.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 67.39 points, or 0.56 percent, to 12,086.02, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 3.77 points, or 0.29 percent, to 1,297.54. The Nasdaq composite index was up 14.43 points, or 0.54 percent, to 2,698.30.
The Commerce Department said Wednesday that sales of new homes fell 16.9 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 250,000 in February, the lowest levels on record. The median price of a new home fell to $202,100, the lowest since the end of 2003, the department said.
While the numbers could have been affected by weather and revisions in previous months, the total was below forecasts and analysts said it spelled bad news for an economic recovery.
Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist for Mizuho Securities USA, said the report showed consumer wealth might be taking another blow despite the rise in equity valuations. ''Nothing good can be said about the February report on new-home sales,'' he said, adding that it showed ''the housing market is still in free fall.''
Bank shares fell after Bank of America said the Federal Reserve had rejected its plan to increase its dividend in the second half of 2011. Shares of Bank of America fell 23 cents, or 1.7 percent, to close at $13.65.
The euro slipped against the dollar late Wednesday after the Portuguese Parliament rejected a new government austerity plan and the prime minister submitted his resignation.
The euro was quoted at $1.4123 in late New York trading.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); CURRENCIES (85%); DIVIDENDS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); EURO (60%); RESIGNATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (57%); ALCOA INC (57%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (57%); MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (57%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); PRU (NYSE) (57%); AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%); FCX (NYSE) (57%); NEM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (57%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (57%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (57%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (57%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (57%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (57%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (57%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (57%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (57%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (57%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



542 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Your Money; A SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: The Extra Hoops Gay Parents Must Jump Through

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
BEVERLY HILLS, Mich.
MOST pregnant women avoid long road trips right before their due date. But Amanda and Kay Shelton, a lesbian couple in Beverly Hills, Mich., contemplated traveling more than 600 miles to New Jersey so Amanda could give birth in a state where their baby could have two ''legal'' mothers.
Michigan, along with several others, doesn't allow same-sex couples to perform second-parent adoptions, which allow one partner to adopt the other's biological or adopted children. They never did make the long trip, which would have allowed Kay to begin adoption proceedings immediately. ''It was not terribly practical, so we were kind of in a difficult spot,'' said Amanda, 34.
The inability to adopt is one of many legal and financial inequalities the Sheltons face because their state and the federal government do not recognize their union, which they affirmed in a ceremony almost 11 years ago. 
Though Kay, 37, is known as ''mama'' to their children -- Maya is 3, Myles, 8 months -- the state government still views her as a legal stranger. So Amanda, who works as a commercial litigator for a law firm in Detroit, must sign a notarized document every six months that gives Kay, who stays home with the children, parental consent. But they have often wondered if there was more they could do to strengthen those legal ties, or to improve their financial situation. So we asked three experts in same-sex issues -- a lawyer, a financial planner and an accountant -- for advice.
LEGAL DOCUMENTS The Sheltons say their top priority is their children. If Amanda were unable to care for them, Kay said, ''I would not want them missing from me, even for a day.''
Michigan recognizes second-parent adoptions performed elsewhere, but that would require establishing residency in a state where Kay could adopt. That can take more than a year.
Several documents are available to create as many rights as possible for the couple, according to Mary Kator, chief counsel at the Rainbow Law Center, a firm in Southfield, Mich. Without the documents, Kay, a former auto mechanic, is vulnerable -- especially if the couple ever splits up.
Instead of relying on the renewable parental authority document, she suggested a ''power of attorney for parental authority,'' which does not expire. It would allow Kay to act on the children's behalf, whether it was for a trip to the doctor's office or a visit with a teacher. ''It has never been challenged and as a practical matter, it works,'' Ms. Kator said.
Ms. Kator also suggested a parental appointment of guardian, which would designate Kay as the children's guardian in the event that Amanda died or became incapacitated, giving Kay priority over any blood relatives.
They also need to update their wills: Amanda should appoint Kay as the children's guardian, but the documents should also express that Kay be treated as a co-parent.
''Even the ring your partner has given you will belong to your birth family upon your death,'' said Ms. Kator of same-sex couples in Michigan who die without a will.
Since many of the couple's assets would pass to one of them directly because they are either jointly held, like their home and savings accounts, or, in the case of Amanda's retirement accounts, have Kay listed as the beneficiary, Ms. Kator did not think it was necessary to use a revocable living trust.
The trust is often recommended for couples with substantial assets that may be subject to probate, the process to settle a deceased person's estate. Assets held in the trust bypass that process. The couple do need to make sure their beneficiary designations are kept up to date.
The Sheltons already have medical powers of attorney that allow them to make medical decisions for each other. Ms. Kator suggested making them broader and more explicit, giving each partner broad visiting rights and authorizing a health provider to give them medical information. The couple already have a durable power of attorney that would allow them to handle legal and financial matters for each other.
Finally, they should set up a domestic partner agreement and a co-parenting agreement that outlines how to handle child support and parenting should the couple ever split. This is especially important for Kay, since she is not a legal parent and has no wage-earning job. ''In our community, because we don't have divorce courts we don't have the ability to address this economic inequality, and a domestic partner agreement can substitute for that,'' Ms. Kator said.
FINANCIAL CONCERNS Since Kay isn't earning any money, she cannot use any tax-advantaged savings vehicles for retirement -- these require earned income. And Amanda can't contribute to a spousal I.R.A. on her behalf, since they cannot marry.
Kay isn't entitled to receive Social Security benefits on Amanda's earnings record, either. Normally, lower-earning spouses can receive up to half of their spouse's benefits, if those are higher than their own. Surviving spouses are also entitled to collect their husband or wife's higher benefits instead of their own. ''I know I need to be saving more for her, but I'm not,'' said Amanda, who puts about $6,000 a year in her 401(k). It would be difficult, if not impossible, to divide that up should they split. Married people who divorce can divide retirement plan assets without having to pay taxes or penalties on withdrawals, but the Sheltons wouldn't have those privileges, said James Tissot, president of Prism Planning in New York.
''The biggest issue as you go forward is the disparity between the two retirement plans and coming up with something that is equitable,'' he told the couple. That agreement should be included in a domestic partner agreement.
After paying down certain debts, he suggested that Amanda at least double her savings.TAXES If the Sheltons could file their federal returns jointly, they would save several thousand dollars in taxes. Instead, Amanda files her federal tax return as ''head of household,'' and claims the children and Kay as dependents. Tax rates are higher for people who file as head of household compared with couples who file jointly, so they end up paying at least $3,000 more, according to Tina Salandra, an accountant and president of Numerical L.L.C.
But they could do something that would help Kay save for retirement: Amanda could hire Kay as a nanny and pay her $3,649 a year, which she could then put into a Roth I.R.A. (Kay needs to earn less than $3,650 for Amanda to continue to claim her as a dependent, Ms. Salandra said.) Kay and Amanda would both owe Social Security and Medicare taxes, and Amanda would need to pay state unemployment taxes. That's roughly $644 in total, but Amanda could deduct her share of the payroll taxes as itemized deductions on her return. After reviewing the advice, the Sheltons said their first priority would be to put the extra parental protections into place, then update their will.
The couple said they were optimistic that, someday, their family would be able to avoid all of these extra costs and hurdles. ''I would love to have another wedding because I love weddings,'' Amanda said, laughing. ''And I would love to have our kids there and to be part of that. I am hopeful.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amanda, right, and Kay Shelton with Maya, 3, and Myles, 8 months. Protecting Kay's rights as a parent takes careful planning. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); ADOPTION (90%); GAY PARENTING (90%); PARENTING (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); COHABITATION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FAMILY LAW (77%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); POWER OF ATTORNEY (73%); COMMERCIAL LAW (72%); LITIGATION (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



543 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Rebel Insider Concedes Weaknesses In Libya

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

 BODY:
BENGHAZI, Libya -- After the uprising, the rebels stumbled as they tried to organize. They did a poor job of defining themselves when Libyans and the outside world tried to figure out what they stood for. And now, as they try to defeat Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's armed forces and militias, they will have to rely on allied airstrikes and young men with guns because the army that rebel military leaders bragged about consists of only about 1,000 trained men.
Those frank admissions came from Ali Tarhouni, who was appointed to the cabinet of the rebels' shadow government on Wednesday as finance minister. Mr. Tarhouni, who teaches economics at the University of Washington, returned to Libya one month ago after more than 35 years in exile to advise the opposition on economic matters. The rebels are proclaiming his American credentials -- he has a doctorate from Michigan State University -- as they seek foreign recognition of their cause. 
''He understands the Western mentality,'' said Iman Bugaighis, a spokeswoman for the fledgling opposition government.
But more important, Mr. Tarhouni, 60, who briefed journalists on Wednesday night, appeared to be one of the few rebel officials willing to speak plainly about the movement's shortcomings and challenges, after weeks of rosy predictions and distortions by some of his colleagues, especially regarding the abilities of the rebel fighters.
''The process was, and is, very chaotic,'' Mr. Tarhouni said.
His appointment came as the rebels were held back for another day outside Ajdabiya in the east, a city controlled, and besieged, by government forces for more than a week. With artillery fire and missile strikes, Colonel Qaddafi's forces have kept the rebels far from the northern entrance to the city, as fears mount about the fate of the civilians inside.
Mr. Tarhouni said he was hopeful that the rebels would be able to retake Ajdabiya soon, and face less resistance from government troops as they progressed toward Surt, a Qaddafi stronghold. ''If Ajdabiya is liberated, I think the dynamics will change,'' he said.
In the early 1970s, as a student activist, Mr. Tarhouni was kicked out of college in Libya several times as he and his fellow students called for democracy and greater freedoms. He left the country in 1973, was stripped of his citizenship and sentenced to death in absentia a few years later, he said. He was put on a government hit list in 1981, he said.
In exile, Mr. Tarhouni remained a prominent opponent of Colonel Qaddafi. A month ago, he said: ''I abruptly, in total shame, left my students and came back in the middle of the quarter. Everyone understood why.''
The rebel movement he returned to struggled with cohesion and made confusing announcements about its leaders and its function. ''There was a total vacuum,'' Mr. Tarhouni said. ''I think it was reflected in the makeup of the council. We will clean it up, I promise you.''
This week, the rebel leadership announced its latest evolution, a government in waiting led by Mahmoud Jibril, a planning expert who defected from Colonel Qaddafi's government. Mr. Tarhouni, the finance minister, said cash was not a problem right now for the rebels because they had money from the central banks in Benghazi and other rebel-held cities. They have also been promised access to 1.4 billion dinars, or almost $1.1 billion, in currency that Britain printed for the Qaddafi government but had not yet delivered, he said.
It is not clear what relationship the new opposition government will have with an already announced national council, led by the country's former justice minister, Mustapha Abdul Jalil. For now, Mr. Tarhouni joins a growing list of politicians whom many Libyans are getting to know for the first time, in a country with a decimated political class and no formal opposition movement.
At the same time, all of the clamor to form a new government seems premature while the rebels struggle to defeat Colonel Qaddafi's military and wrest cities from his control.
Mr. Tarhouni acknowledged the dilemma, saying that without heavy artillery and planes, the rebels were left to rely on the young people who had first faced the colonel's army with stones.
''Now they're carrying arms,'' he said. ''Rightfully so.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); ARMED FORCES (77%); ARMIES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (60%); CITIZENSHIP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



544 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Your Money; A SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Setting Up a Plan To Get Back on Track

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
SPRINGDALE, Ark.
JUST before 9 a.m. on a recent March morning, Mark Flake was working the phone at his office here in northwest Arkansas. The phones have been ringing lately, and that's a good thing because Mr. Flake is a real estate agent and a property manager -- and it wasn't long ago that things were painfully quiet.
''I will never complain about being busy,'' said Mr. Flake, 41, a trim sandy-haired man in khakis and a yellow polo shirt with a Weichert Realtors logo. In fact, Mr. Flake had one of his best income years last year -- a relief after the brutal slowdown of 2008 and 2009, when his income plunged by about 30 percent.
The drop in pay, with mounting medical bills and a curve ball in their personal life, led Mr. Flake and his wife, Amy, to exhaust their savings. As they shifted spending to credit cards their debt mounted, and conversations about retirement saving took a back seat to making the mortgage payments on their home in nearby Rogers. 
But with his income now beginning to stabilize, Mr. Flake has been taking stock. He and his wife aren't as bad off as some -- they still own their home and, while they've lost equity, they don't think it's worth less than their $150,000 mortgage. Mr. Flake has some real estate holdings, including a pair of rental duplexes and part of a limited liability company that owns commercial property. He expected those holdings to pay off in the long term, but they wouldn't yield much if sold at current prices.
He has added to his income by managing clients' properties as well as his own. His emergency cash, though, has dwindled to $1,000, and he has no formal retirement fund. He knows he should save for retirement, but says the very notion of retirement is alien to him. ''I don't think I'm ever going to retire,'' he said, shaking his head.
Still, he can foresee a future in which, perhaps, he won't have to be constantly on call for clients or tenants, as he is now. But a major impediment to saving for that day is that the Flakes must first pay off debt they accumulated during the property bust -- roughly $55,000, excluding their mortgage and a car payment.
A chunk of the total is student loans, but much of the debt was run up on credit cards covering expenses like medical treatment and operations for two of their children. ''It adds up,'' said Mrs. Flake, 37, in a telephone interview from her home. ''The last couple of years have been tough.''
Adding to the strain on their budget was the unexpected addition of a family member. In October 2008, they learned that a relative of hers with an 8-month-old son was going to prison. If the Flakes could not take the baby, he would be placed in foster care. The Flakes did some soul searching and decided to seek custody of the boy, delaying a plan by Mrs. Flake to resume working. ''It's not every day,'' Mr. Flake said, ''you have the chance to do something that can really change someone's life.''
Last fall, though, Mr. Flake realized his financial situation was precarious. A credit counseling service helped him negotiate a consolidation loan to pay off his nonsecured debt at an interest rate of about 3 percent. He expects to pay it off in about four years. ''You really can't save effectively until you've got that off your back,'' he said.
Ann Garcia, a financial planner in Portland, Ore., with Maas Capital Advisors, said in a phone interview that the Flakes' predicament ''isn't terribly unusual,'' given the lingering effects of the housing collapse.
Ms. Garcia's own family has seen its share of economic ups and downs -- her husband works in technology, as she once did, and has endured six layoffs in the last 15 years. That's why it's crucial to have a cash cushion, she says, and that should be the Flakes' first priority.
Ms. Garcia supports Mr. Flake's commitment to ridding himself of debt. But she advises keeping that goal in perspective as his income stabilizes. (He made about $65,000 last year from his real estate holdings, property management business and home sales commissions combined, and expects to make about the same this year.)
Sometimes, when there is money left after covering his expenses and the minimum debt payment of $1,200 a month, Mr. Flake makes extra debt payments. Ms. Garcia advises against that. For now, anything after expenses should be used to build emergency savings, and then to begin a retirement fund. ''Their bigger priority is to build up cash savings,'' Ms. Garcia said, a goal that was attainable with ''strict'' budgeting.
Typically, Ms. Garcia would suggest that a couple tap their home for a line of credit for use in emergencies. But she said that was not an option because of the Flakes' debt. To simplify savings, she suggested that Mr. Flake deposit his earnings into a savings account and transfer a preset amount into his checking account to cover monthly expenses.
Once the couple builds more of a cushion -- she recommends six months of living expenses, but said three months might be a more realistic goal for the Flakes -- then they can think about a retirement fund, she said.
Ms. Garcia says Roth I.R.A.'s make the most sense because they can be opened with low initial contributions. They can put in $5,000 a year each, for a total of $10,000.
Roths are financed with after-tax money, so withdrawals are income-tax free -- an important consideration for Mr. Flake, who plans to continue working as long as possible and so is likely to be in a higher income bracket at retirement.
Also, if the accounts have been open for at least five years, they can be used to help pay for their children's college costs. With that in mind, Mrs. Garcia advises the Flakes to open Roth I.R.A.'s in 2013, when their oldest child is 13, so they could be used penalty-free for education needs when he is college age.
If Mr. Flake's real estate ventures continue to grow, he could consider a business-based retirement plan, like a simplified employee pension plan, or SEP, which would let him put more money away, Ms. Garcia says.
One possibility Mr. Flake might weigh, Ms. Garcia adds, is speaking to his parents about a ''lifetime gift''-- a way for parents to give their heirs an inheritance, while they are living.
If his parents were able to make a gift, Ms. Garcia said, Mr. Flake should put at least half into emergency savings and use the rest to pay down his debt. Mrs. Flake and the children have health insurance, but Mr. Flake does not. Ms. Garcia urged him to get a short-term ''catastrophic only'' plan, often available for less than $100 a month.
Over all, Mr. Flake said, he liked Ms. Garcia's advice ''I think it can be done,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RECOVERING: Mark Flake pushes his daughter Emma on a swing at a local park. After a tough period, his income has stabilized. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER TIREY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); BUDGETS (74%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); STUDENT LOANS (67%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (67%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (64%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

COMPANY: WEICHERT REALTORS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



545 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Your Money; MONEY THROUGH THE AGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Repairing a Long-Neglected Nest Egg

BYLINE: By CARMEN WONG ULRICH

 BODY:
TUCSON
FROM Mozart, who begged patrons to help settle his debts, to the rapper MC Hammer, who declared bankruptcy, musicians have a long history of lacking money skills. So far, Marina Sturm, a 55-year-old clarinetist, has managed to avoid Mozart's fate. ''I don't like owing people,'' she said. And while she's far from the problems Mr. Hammer's faced, she has fallen into other money traps like indifference and a lack of confidence.
''I'm naive'' about money, she said. Combine that with the passage of time and this single, tenured professor at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas feels as if she has wasted valuable years. ''In my 20s, I didn't think about it. Thirties, maybe. In your 40s you're more likely to, then 50s you go 'Whoops!' ''
At least she's on notice. In a recent Harris Interactive Poll, 25 percent of baby boomers said that they had no retirement savings at all and 26 percent said they had no cash savings. 
Ms. Sturm is in much better shape, though far from where she should be to meet her retirement goals. After talking with Kimberly D. Overman, a certified financial planner who is president of the Financial Well, an advisory firm in Tampa, Fla., Ms. Sturm discovered that she actually had close to $180,000 saved and invested, much more than the $80,000 she thought she had before looking at her statements.
But to save the amount that Ms. Sturm actually needs to retire at age 67, there's additional pressure. She earns her living in two professions taking a big hit in this economy -- teaching and the arts. Ms. Overman, 52 and also single, took to Ms. Sturm and her needs immediately. ''Most of the issues that are going on in our world are going on in her life.''
Ms. Overman said that when making a financial plan, assumptions on future income needed to be flexible to take account of the realities of the times. For Ms. Sturm, who even with tenure has already been placed on paid furlough and may be forced to take a 5 percent salary cut, ''we're in a position right now that we have to think that that assumption doesn't really work,'' Ms. Overman said.
And though Ms. Sturm does not have children, she is caring for an aging parent. To be able to take in her 89-year-old mother and have other family nearby to help, Ms. Sturm recently bought a bright, adobe-style home here, with a view of the mountains. After not being a property owner for decades, Ms. Sturm now has a mortgage and -- though her mother is helping with expenses -- the strain of a new set of costs is wearing on her budget and her mind. ''If something happens with Mom, how much of it will have to be out of our pockets, I don't know.''
With that in mind, Ms. Overman's advice for Ms. Sturm started with getting long-term care insurance for herself. ''In my opinion it's essential. You can break a hip and long-term care will take care of you when medical coverage does not -- same with stroke.''
Ms. Overman said all older people should consider such coverage, even married couples with children. ''I have had women tell me, 'My kids will take care of me.' Only to have them call me a year and a half later saying that their kids are losing their jobs because they're taking care of me!''
But long-term care insurance can be expensive. Can Ms. Sturm, who makes less than $70,000 a year, manage that? And does it make sense?
''It is expensive but not having it is also expensive,'' Ms. Overman said. She estimated that such coverage for Ms. Sturm would cost about $1,900 a year. ''I bet you she's paying that much in car insurance.''
The youngest of three children from a musical family, Ms. Sturm has enjoyed her ''nomadic'' existence, but it has left her finances scattered through four separate retirement accounts. Ms. Overman's advice: consolidate. ''She does need to consolidate into a single I.R.A. so she can diversify without having to keep track of 14 different statements which she doesn't read anyway.''
Ms. Overman, who is also president of the Financial Planning Association of Florida, works with clients by initially assessing their tolerance for risk. After answering 25 questions, Ms. Sturm's results showed that she was very conservative -- more so than 80 percent of investors.
Ms. Overman's strategy to plump up Ms. Sturm's conservative portfolio was to get her to put the maximum contribution into her 403(b) savings plan and put even more each month into a Roth I.R.A. ''If she can bump it up to the 15 percent level and rebalances her portfolio, she has about a 70 percent chance of hitting her retirement goals.'' This sunny prognosis is aided by Ms. Sturm's pension, larger than she had thought, but still too small to live on even when combined with Social Security. As a last and vital move, Ms. Sturm needed to reduce her expenses by about 35 percent at retirement, Ms. Overman said. ''If she doesn't make these changes, her chances are zero. That's the problem.''
Ms. Sturm's expenses needed triage. Her cash balances were too low for Ms. Overman. After putting a down payment on the home and lending cash to her sister at 2 percent interest, Ms. Sturm needed to find places to cut. After a rather painful realization, she accepted Ms. Overman's suggestion that she create and stick to a budget. ''For someone who is creative, dealing with that hunt and peck is painful,'' Ms. Sturm said. In the past, she never paid attention to grocery prices, but now was learning to pass up costlier items in favor of less expensive ones.
And that musical logic? Ms. Overman found that it had its advantages. She may not be trained in financial strategies, but ''she's very astute,'' Ms. Overman said.
One smart move was buying half a dozen round-trip plane tickets from here to her job in Las Vegas. With rising oil prices and airfares, Ms. Sturm wanted to lock in current prices as a hedge. Also on her mind were tax deductions she might be able to take to reduce her commuting bill of $300 a week. ''I need to ask around,'' she said.
So many changes in such a short time left Ms. Sturm reeling but energized. ''I don't know how fast it can happen. But that's the way I run my life: open the door; make the moves. And not just sit there, stunned.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in the special Your Money section on Thursday about Marina Sturm's efforts to catch up on retirement savings at the age of 55 misstated the name of the university where she is an assistant professor of music. It is the University of Nevada, Las Vegas -- not the University of Las Vegas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PLANNING AHEAD: Marina Sturm, left, on the patio of the home she recently bought in Tucson, with her mother, Kay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RICHARDS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); ACADEMIC TENURE (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (90%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (56%); TAMPA, FL, USA (54%) ARIZONA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



546 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1839 words

HEADLINE: Drug Wars Push Deeper Into Central America

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and DAMIEN CAVE; Randal C. Archibold reported from San Pedro Sula, and Damien Cave from Puntarenas, Costa Rica.

 BODY:
SAN PEDRO SULA, Honduras -- Josue Oviedo looked into his sister's fading eyes as she fought to speak her last words.
''She was trying to tell me something,'' he said, a day after the funeral for Daisy Oviedo Mejia, 22, who died in a storm of bullets while watching her brother play soccer a few weeks ago. ''But she couldn't. I gave her mouth-to-mouth but there was too much blood.''
Ms. Oviedo, a primary school teacher who liked to dance and sing with her students, was one of four people killed that day when gunmen opened fire at a park, the second such massacre here since November. She was innocent, the authorities said, another casualty in the violence and social ills rocking Central America as criminal groups turn the region into a main artery for funneling cocaine north to the United States.
Traffickers have used Central America as a stopover point since at least the 1970s. But the aggressive crackdowns on criminal organizations in Mexico and Colombia, coupled with strides in limiting smuggling across the Caribbean, have increasingly brought the powerful syndicates here, pushing the drug scourge deeper into small Central American countries incapable of combating it. 
Most of the known cocaine shipments moving north, 84 percent of them, crossed through Central America last year, according to radar tracking data from American authorities -- a sharp increase from 44 percent in 2008 and only 23 percent in 2006, the year President Felipe Calderon of Mexico took office and began his assault against the drug gangs in his country.
Responding to the pressure -- and opportunity -- the cartels have spread out quickly. Five of Central America's seven countries are now on the United States' list of 20 ''major illicit drug transit or major illicit drug producing countries.'' Three of those, Costa Rica, Nicaragua and Honduras, were added just last year.
At the same time, management has changed. Mexican cartels have taken over from Colombians in recent years, recruiting local gangs to help bolster shipments, increasing consumption by paying with drugs and expanding extortion and kidnapping networks to round out their enterprise.
''This is David versus Goliath,'' said Marlon Pascua, Honduras's defense secretary. ''And we are David fighting the giant.''
The issue took center stage when President Obama, during a visit to El Salvador on Tuesday and Wednesday, announced a plan to fight organized crime in the region by strengthening civilian institutions and providing training for local authorities, weapons and equipment.
But such promises have been made before, and many Central American leaders are frustrated by the wait. Of the $1.6 billion in law enforcement support promised under the antidrug Merida initiative announced in 2007, $258 million was assigned to Central America. Yet only $20 million of it had actually been spent by April of last year, according to the Government Accountability Office.
Meanwhile, the problem continues to metastasize. American officials say the 2009 coup in Honduras kicked open the door to cartels, and this month the authorities there made a troubling find: a major cocaine processing lab, suggesting that the region was becoming not just a way station for drugs, but also a manufacturer.
Even once peaceful corners like Costa Rica are struggling with addiction, gangs and drug-money corruption. Without immediate help, said Jose Maria Tijerino Pacheco, Costa Rica's minister of public security, ''the region is going to degenerate into another Mexico.''
Overmatched Defenses
The American military's map of suspected drug plane and boat traffic heading from South America to Central America last year shows scores of lines running north. On the Atlantic side is a pistol-shaped arc of flights: the handle is the Venezuela-Colombia border and the barrel is pointed at Honduras's Caribbean coast. On the Pacific side, the tracks show mostly boats -- with dozens of lines heading from Colombia to an area of Costa Rica famous for fishing.
Both routes are increasingly popular: suspected drug flights to Honduras spiked to 82 last year, up from only 6 in 2006; in Costa Rica, there were 100 ''maritime events,'' up from just 12 five years ago.
The patterns reveal how drug traffickers exploit the region's geographic, political and economic vulnerabilities. In Honduras, the coast northeast of San Pedro Sula offers a remote, largely uninhabited rainforest that is perfect for the single-engine planes traffickers use, then hide or burn to destroy the evidence.
One former smuggler said he had little trouble moving cocaine loads for years. He said he collected pound after pound from planes and then drove it by boat or car to the Guatemala border, without once being caught.
''We always got it through,'' he said, withholding his full name for fear of reprisals.
Honduran officials hardly dispute such claims, saying the radar system they would need to closely track the planes would cost $30 million, and even then, they would need helicopters and other equipment to quickly intervene. The coup only made matters worse, because the Honduran military was diverted to containing street protests and American officials suspended anti-narcotics aid in response to the political crisis.
In Costa Rica, the Pacific Coast has proven just as porous. Speedboats with contraband ply the shipping lanes, according to fishermen in Puntarenas, the country's main Pacific port. They say their radios have been crackling for years with cartel requests for food or offers of a few thousand dollars to carry drugs ashore.
That is, if the traffickers do not own the boats already. Chamber of Commerce officials in Puntarenas said that people suspected of being cartel leaders have bought at least a half-dozen fishing businesses over the past few years, coercing sales either with the barrel of a gun or by offering more than the going rate at a time when fishing yields are declining.
Mauricio Boraschi, who occupies a newly created position as Costa Rica's drug czar, said the Mexican cartels were gobbling up any legitimate business to hide their product. ''They buy everything -- the farms, the means of production, the transport,'' Mr. Boraschi said. ''It's all to move cocaine.''
At the small Coast Guard base in Puntarenas, most of the guardsmen admit they are outmatched. ''It's extremely frustrating,'' said Pastor Reyes Gonzalez, the commander. ''There is not much we can do.''
He pointed to his boats. The smaller ones, he said, were too slow to intercept the cartels' speedy skiffs. Of the unit's three larger boats, only one had a functioning engine. And that was a hand-me-down from the Americans, commissioned in 1960.
All around the country's 801-mile coastline, the story is the same. Of Costa Rica's 26 boats involved in security, only 14 function, said Mr. Tijerino, the minister of public security. Even the largest Coast Guard stations, he said, can cover only 5 percent of their territory -- and even less at night because they lack proper equipment.
Costa Ricans used to joke about such limitations. The country abolished its military in 1948, and with a motto of ''pura vida,'' or pure life, it has spent decades cultivating an image of easygoing democratic stability.
But what had been a point of pride has now become a vulnerability -- and a catalyst for requests for help.
In Costa Rica and in Honduras, as with other countries in the region, the largest seizures have come only with American assistance. Just a few weeks ago, after American radar picked up a plane near the Honduran coast, Drug Enforcement Administration helicopters with night vision gear helped pinpoint where the plane landed. Oscar Alvarez, the security minister, said its cocaine was seized, but only because the police and American agents happened to be training nearby. Even these victories can be fleeting. Last year, a single-engine plane that had been seized and stored at a military base in San Pedro Sula disappeared. Five armed men somehow slipped past guards, broke into the hangar and flew the plane away.
Consequences Pile Up
Central America is not just awash in smugglers. The region has become a major cocaine consumer, starting a few years ago when the cartels began paying people in kind. Local dealers quickly turned those payments into crack that sells for $1 a hit.
The consequences continue to multiply. Urban areas and coastal towns are experiencing more drug-related crime, while treatment centers are as overwhelmed and ill prepared as the police.
In San Pedro Sula, Honduras, all of the slots at the drug treatment center were full during a recent visit. The closest alternative was a six-hour drive away.
In Puntarenas, Costa Rica, the drug center offered a portrait of what happens when cartels infiltrate a town of 10,000 people, in a country smaller than West Virginia. Housed in an antique train depot, the center was full, as usual, with 32 struggling men.
''Demand for help has doubled since last year,'' said Hanzel Mora Badilla, 26, the center's manager. ''Every year, it doubles.''
He pulled out a heavy ledger identifying everyone who has passed through. Only about one in 100 get clean for good, Mr. Badilla said, so the book was mostly a casualty list of the come and gone: Fernando, 24, a carpenter addicted to crack; Miguel, 52, a fisherman addicted to crack; Marvin, 22, Juan, 37, Jose, 30 -- page after page, name after name, each a tragedy in shaky script.
''They're zombies,'' said Mr. Boraschi, Costa Rica's drug czar. Some, he added, are also dangerous.
A month ago, the Costa Rican police found a couple that had been killed in a neighborhood of Puntarenas called Progress. They were known as the area's main dealers, and the police said they were killed because they owed a debt to Mexican bosses.
But for those who knew them before they joined the cartel economy, they exemplified a wider, regional spiral.
Jesus E. Chavez, one of the Coast Guard officers in Puntarenas, said the dead dealer had been a school classmate. ''He was a good kid,'' he said. But, Mr. Chavez noted, drugs and money in Central America have become hard to resist.
''The narcos are hiring our good workers, people I know,'' Mr. Chavez said, describing a raid in which he found himself facing a neighbor who lived three houses away.
Climbing Murder Rate
That is exactly what frightens the people and leaders of small countries like Costa Rica and Honduras. While Mexico continues to struggle with heinous violence, its murder rate is still relatively low, at 12 per 100,000 people. In Honduras, the already high murder rate has climbed rapidly and is much higher than Mexico's -- at 66.8 per 100,000 people, it is the worst in Central America.
Ms. Oviedo's father, Gonzalo Oviedo, knew the statistics. He preached nonviolence in San Pedro Sula and in nearby La Lima, where his daughter lived and worked at the religious school the family runs.
Never did he imagine, he said, that his words and faith would be so tested.
''It is not easy to have hope,'' he said. ''What we have is desperation, anguish and fear.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fernando Ferre, 17, dug the grave of a neighbor who was killed near San Pedro Sula, Honduras. (A1)
Police officers kept watch recently outside a lab used to process cocaine near the town of San Pedro Sula in Honduras.
 Costa Rican coast guard members recently prepared to inspect a ship for drugs off the main Pacific port of Puntarenas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) MAP: There have been two recent massacres in San Pedro Sula. (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); DRUG POLICY (88%); SHOOTINGS (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); SMUGGLING (73%); COCAINE (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); RADAR SYSTEMS (70%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); SHIPMENTS (65%); EXTORTION (60%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); SOCCER (56%); GANGS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); FELIPE CALDERON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONDURAS (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); COSTA RICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); NICARAGUA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



547 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; IN THE GARDEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2786 words

HEADLINE: Vintage Seeds Or Flinty Hybrids?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL TORTORELLO

 BODY:
AS gardeners stock up on heirloom seeds for spring, Rob Johnston, the chairman of Johnny's Selected Seeds in Winslow, Me., would like to suggest an accessory. Why not buckle up in a 1936 Oldsmobile coupe?
O.K., so it doesn't have seat belts. But the swoop of the fenders resembles Joan Crawford's eyebrows. Better yet, the rest of the Oldsmobile's curves are all Lana Turner.
And the technology! Where else can today's driver find such innovations as knee-action wheels and a solid steel ''turret top''?
But even with all that a '36 Olds has going for it, Mr. Johnston, 60, said, ''I'm not sure how big of a market there would be'' for 75-year-old cars. ''It would just be a sentimental business.'' 
So to return to Mr. Johnston's own business, vegetable seeds, why is the backyard gardener buying so many 1936-era heirlooms?
Mr. Johnston, it should be noted, is a fan of heirlooms, which, in the broadest sense, are old varieties of ''open pollinated'' seeds that will grow the same plant again.
But he argues that his typical customers -- small market farmers and avid home gardeners -- have better choices. Modern seeds, which are generally hybrid crosses, produce a ''more vigorous plant, better resistance to diseases,'' he said.
And here's the heirloom heresy: they often taste better, too.
Heritage seed buyers could rebut some or all of those claims -- and they do. But agronomy, in a sense, is the least of it. Seventeen years ago, in The New York Times, the writer Michael Pollan spelled out the economic and environmental hazards of hybrid seeds in an article that came with a fright-movie title, ''The Seed Conspiracy.''
In the years since, the superiority of certain types of seed has grown into a kind of orthodoxy among right-thinking gardeners. The philosophy could be called heirloomism. And according to some plant breeders and seed sellers, it propagated a reactionary, and sometimes confused, argument about food, farming and science.
The debate may seem abstract. But one question it raises for the gardener is plain as dirt: what kind of seeds will succeed in the yard?
One thing nobody would dispute is that business is booming in heirloom seeds. Seed Savers Exchange, in Decorah, Iowa, a leading source of heirlooms, has seen sales ''increasing dramatically,'' said the executive director, John Torgrimson. (Mr. Johnston serves on the board.)
Sales shot up 100 percent in 2008 at Baker Creek Heirloom Seeds, a Missouri-based garden company that stocks 1,200 vegetable varieties, and the last two years have brought 20 percent annual growth, said the company's owner, Jere Gettle.
According to a survey by the National Gardening Association, one in five American households with a yard or garden reports an interest in heirloom fruits, berries and vegetables. But Mr. Gettle, 30, contends that his generation cares even more about heirlooms.
''New gardeners, younger gardeners -- 90 percent are interested in heirlooms and traditional varieties,'' Mr. Gettle said.
The appeal is plain to see, not just to taste. The Baker Creek catalog can deliver as much wonderment as the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show. How can common vegetables come in so many comical shapes and unlikely colors?
Beyond the aesthetics, Mr. Gettle said his customers espouse ''almost a total rejection of G.M.O.s,'' or genetically modified organisms. Further, they don't want ''hybridization in their seed supply. They want to be independent and be able to save their seeds. They don't like the big boys.''
One of the undeniable big boys in garden seeds is W. Atlee Burpee & Company. This Doylestown, Pa., company is the country's largest purveyor of open-pollinated seeds, said its chief executive officer, George Ball. As heritage seed sales have outpaced the rest of Burpee's seed line, Mr. Ball, 59, has added more varieties to his catalog and Web site.
But this ''third-generation seed man'' also seems to relish acting as a heckler of the heirloom movement. In an op-ed piece published in The Des Moines Register last summer, Mr. Ball wrote: ''Today, greener-than-thou gardeners crusade for heirloom seeds while unjustly condemning hybrids. Increasingly, their anti-science credo has hardened into a Luddite fundamentalism.''
Mr. Ball laughs a bit about the bombast of phrases like ''greener than thou.'' But he sticks by his main claim. ''Heirlooms were varieties that were so unsuccessful that they wouldn't be sold today,'' he said. ''Every product declines until it's replaced by new heirlooms.''
That term, ''new heirlooms,'' may seem like an oxymoron. Yet while heirloom seeds stay stubbornly the same, the heirloom brand continues to evolve.
One of the first print references to heirlooms appeared in a 1949 article in The Times, according to the Oxford English Dictionary. That dictionary's definition of ''heirloom'' matches the one used by Seed Savers Exchange: open-pollinated varieties that are more than 50 years old and have been handed down through generations.
But that classification describes only a portion of the 13,500 varieties in the group's annual yearbook. And so Mr. Torgrimson, 60, embraces a wider and more useful classification that includes four categories.
First, there are the family legacies, like Bakery's squash. Emma Adkins, of Van Lear, Ky., took this striped acorn cultivar from her mother's garden and donated it to Seed Savers in 1994.
Perhaps the greatest number of heirlooms comes from the second group: old market varieties. A classic example is the Danvers carrot. The Fedco Seeds catalog traces this vegetable back to Massachusetts farmers in 1871.
Third is a ''modern heirloom'' like the sugar snap pea. The vegetable breeder Calvin Lamborn developed this open-pollinated favorite for the Gallatin Valley Seed Company in the 1970s.
The origins of the sugar snap, a rogue, thick-walled pea, lie in Mr. Torgrimson's fourth category, ''mystery heirlooms.'' These are serendipitous discoveries and field crosses that farmers and gardeners decide to preserve and plant again.
In the plainest sense, heirlooms are just old seeds. What has changed is the way we venerate them, said Bill Tracy, 56, a sweet-corn breeder and professor of agronomy at the University of Wisconsin. Dr. Tracy knows the old sweet corns well. He estimates that, over the decades, he has grown 75 to 80 percent of these varieties.
Marketing them as heirlooms, however, is ''a new concept, a concept of the early 21st century,'' Dr. Tracy said. Plants are sexually active, mutable things, he explained. And they can be adapted to different climates, soil types and planting and harvest dates.
''The farmer or the gardener has the opportunity to select the type that is best for their farm,'' he said. And ''previous generations of farmers, our parents or grandparents'' did just that.
An open-pollinated seed wasn't an item to be named, fixed and monastically cloistered. For their part, the seed companies and catalogs, which were then small and regional, collected local seeds from the plants that performed best from year to year.
John Navazio, 56, a Washington State University seed specialist and senior scientist for the Organic Seed Alliance, suggests that the growers who developed heirloom seeds wouldn't be content with them today.
''A 1902 cabbage by Burpee was a perfectly good cabbage by 1902 standards,'' Dr. Navazio said. ''But the truth of the matter is, none of our ancestors ever viewed these things as done. You never stopped breeding your livestock. You never stopped selecting your cabbage.''
FOR the discriminating food shopper, the word ''heirloom'' has another meaning. Heirloom vegetables are the delicious ones. These are the turnips dolled up in magazine photo spreads and honored by name on the menus of the better restaurants. (And even some of the worst ones.)
Mr. Torgrimson admits that he has dallied with a few hybrids in the past. But ''you can't beat the taste'' of heirlooms, he said. He recalled what a visitor to Seed Savers' Heritage Farm asked last summer after biting into a gusher of a tomato. ''Why does the tomato in the store taste like a red rubber ball?''
Bob Heisey, a 62-year-old tomato-and-pepper breeder for the United Genetics Seeds Company, has heard that question before. ''A lot of the complaints,'' he said, ''are about supermarket tomatoes that are picked when they're green, and gassed with ethylene to develop the red color and then refrigerated to keep them fresh so that they look marketable when they get to the store.''
The American consumer, Dr. Heisey said, wants to buy produce out of season. And the customer is always right -- even when the customer is wrong.
Pitting August heirlooms against March shelf-fillers is not an apples-to-apples comparison, so to speak. As Mr. Johnston puts it, ''In general, fresh local produce can be better eating than not-so-fresh, long-distance-shipped produce.''
Heirlooms are not intrinsically more appetizing than modern hybrids. Heirlooms began as hybrids, after all -- a fortuitous cross of two parents. Modern hybrids, or so-called ''F-1s,'' are usually proprietary to a seed company. But this is still the 19th-century genetics of Gregor Mendel, not genetic engineering.
There are plenty of horticultural reasons heirlooms can grow glorious fruit. One is size. An heirloom tomato is often a big, robust plant. The central stalk is usually indeterminate: it keeps shooting up after setting fruit. Mr. Ball, of Burpee, recalls a customer telling him about a Brandywine plant that crept into the house through a second-floor window.
An heirloom tomato will also have a lot of leaves, in groups of three, Dr. Heisey said. All that green surface area translates into a lot of photosynthesis. And that means higher sugar levels, one of many factors that make for a mythic tomato.
A modern, hybrid tomato, by comparison, is typically determinate in the way it grows: the stem will stop growing. And the leaves come in pairs. Farmers prefer compact plants with earlier and higher fruit yields. So that's what breeders give them.
But that's not the end of the story. If it were, Dr. Heisey wouldn't be able to argue that a well-bred hybrid, properly ripened, ''will taste as good or better than heirloom tomatoes.''
As any impatient gardener will testify, many of those old tomato plants don't like to be hurried to make fruit. And while they're hanging around the yard, the foliage can pick up a legion of common diseases, including the blights (early and late) and the wilts (fusarium and verticillium).
As the stricken plant sheds leaves like a sheepdog, it has less sugar to channel into the fruit. This is one reason an October tomato may be no great treat.
By comparison, some blight resistance has been bred into the hybrid for decades, Dr. Heisey said. Most commercial types now have resistance, as do many backyard varieties.
Still, the farmers who first created the heirlooms did not garden in Eden. They had their own nuisances to overcome. Mr. Gettle, the owner of Baker Creek Heirloom Seeds, suggests that a well-chosen seed can prove to be a survivor.
For example, he said, growers might find that Southeast Asian cultivars feel at home in the miserable damp of Florida. Alternately, plant enough heirlooms from enough places, and a few are bound to endure.
Besides, Mr. Gettle added, ''the same blights hit the hybrids out here in Missouri as hit the heirlooms.''
A few universities continue to develop plants that can withstand both disease and pests. North Carolina State University is working on something that could stand up to the late blight that decimated the Northeast's tomato crop in 2009.
But the ''universities have basically shut down all their programs for home gardeners,'' Mr. Gettle said. ''Most plant breeders are owned by a few large seed companies. I wish they would develop more things for the home garden.''
The kitchen gardener already has enough watermelon cultivars to last until the end times, he said. But the world could use a worthy colored carrot.
IN his career as a plant breeder, Dr. Navazio, of the Organic Seed Alliance, has actually created a new colored carrot. It's open-pollinated (or O.P.) and goes by the name Purple Dragon, ''which unfortunately sounds like a 'Flintstones' vitamin,'' he said. (For more seed ideas, see the accompanying article.)
The great bank of heirloom seeds is ripe for fresh creations and practical improvements, Dr. Navazio said. ''When people say that hybrids are better than the O.P.s, well, duh! You've been throwing all of your brainpower at developing hybrids for more than 30 years. And the nonhybrids, the O.P.s, have sat and languished with almost no one doing any good selection and genetic maintenance on them. At that point, it's a self-fulfilling prophecy.''
His organization's cause is not to romanticize old seeds, he said. Instead, this Washington-state nonprofit hopes to rebuild the regional farming culture that invented those cultivars. The place for such a movement to start, Dr. Navazio argues, is the small farm. And the people to do it are the farmers themselves.
Dr. Navazio points to Theresa, David and Dan Podoll, organic seed growers in Fullerton, N.D. Over the years, their family farm has gradually bred a Septoria leaf spot resistance into its Crimson Sprinter tomatoes. The immunity isn't total, as it might be in a hybrid. But by selecting the hardiest survivors each season, the tomato plant evolves along with the blight.
Intrigued? The Podolls's tomato seeds can now be bought at High Mowing Organic Seeds, in northern Vermont. (But beware of late blight, said Jodi Lew-Smith, the company's director of research and production.)
High Mowing typifies a crop of small companies selling well-adapted seeds to the local market, Dr. Navazio said. Similarly, Johnny's and Fedco have become popular seed sellers in New England and the Northeast. Gardeners in the Pacific Northwest can buy from Uprising Seeds and Siskiyou Seeds.
As Siskiyou announces on the front page of its Web site, ''Our vision is to connect seed growers, gardeners and farmers in a mutually beneficial relationship to support small-scale agriculture with superior genetics selected for the Pacific Northwest.''
Put another way, Siskiyou isn't dealing in nostalgia. What it pledges to sell is a better seed.
Flipping Through the Catalog
A seed catalog is like a library. A lot of people don't go there and never will, and even the regulars seldom make use of the whole thing. It's easy enough to get stuck on grape tomatoes -- or the wit and wisdom of Tucker Max -- year after year.
Another type of reader can be found stalking the new-releases shelf. This may be the novelty-loving gardener who craves new-seed suggestions. Here to play the part of the helpful librarian are a handful of vegetable breeders and seeds men.
John Torgrimson, the executive director of Seed Savers Exchange (seedsavers.org; 563-382-5990), will be trying the Champion of England pea this spring. It may be new to the catalog, but this pea is ''an 1840s heirloom, passed down within a family.'' Though the plant may reach 10 feet tall, it doesn't claim a lot of real estate on the ground.
The answer to the wilted Eastern tomato crop of 2009 might be Defiant PhR, said Rob Johnston, a vegetable breeder and the chairman of Johnny's Selected Seeds (johnnyseeds.com; 877-564-6697). This lipstick-red, midsize hybrid carries a resistance to Phytophthora, or late blight.
After years of disappointment with commercial zucchini seeds, Bill Reynolds resolved to find an open-pollinated variety for his Northern California farm. The solution was the Dark Star zucchini, created with John Navazio, senior scientist at the Organic Seed Alliance. The drought-hardy, deep-green zuke now appears in catalogs like Siskiyou Seeds (siskiyouseeds.com; 541-846-9233) and Seeds of Change (seedsofchange.com; 888-762-7333).
Farmers rely on uniformity in a crop. But the backyard gardener can afford to be indulgent with an heirloom striped tomato like Violet Jasper. The fruit can be as small as a cherry or as large as a golf ball. Even the moniker vacillates. The tomato went by its Chinese name, Tzi Bi U, before a Bulgarian seeds man mailed a packet to Jere Gettle and his catalog, Baker Creek Heirloom Seeds (rareseeds.com; 417-924-8917).
The sweet pepper Sublime makes its own smooth transition from green to red. George Ball, the chief executive of Burpee (burpee.com; 800-888-1447), swears by the cultivar's ''spirited flavor'' when it's picked green. But even after the pepper reddens and sweetens, the Burpee-bred fruit still carries a rare ''slight tang.''
The pepper is a hybrid; you can't save the seed. But then Burpee has been around for 135 years and Sublime is the boss's favorite. You can bet he'll sell it next year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BACKYARD GOSSIP: Heirloom seeds at the Petaluma Seed Bank in California. Is all of the buzz worth it? (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW KELLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
NEW AND IMPROVED: Rob Johnston, above, founder of Johnny's Selected Seeds, at the company warehouse in Winslow, Me., where Laura Ellsworth, right, packages hybrid cucumber seeds. Mr. Johnston says hybrid seeds produce a ''more vigorous plant, better resistance to diseases.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG DILGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 HEIRLOOM ADVOCATE: Jere Gettle, below, the owner of Baker Creek Heirloom Seeds in Mansfield, Mo., and pictured here at the company's Petaluma Seed Bank in California, contends that his generation cares more about heirloom seeds, like those at left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW KELLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (91%); CROP RESEARCH (78%); AGRICULTURE (72%); AGRONOMY (72%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (58%)

COMPANY: GARDEN CO LTD (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



548 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Anxiety Up as Tokyo Issues Warning on Its Tap Water

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY and DENISE GRADY; David Jolly reported from Tokyo, and Denise Grady from New York. Chika Ohshima contributed reporting from Tokyo, and Keith Bradsher and Kevin Drew from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Radioactive iodine detected in Tokyo's water supply prompted Japanese authorities on Wednesday to warn that infants in Tokyo and surrounding areas should not be given tap water to drink, adding to the anxiety about public safety posed by Japan's unfolding nuclear crisis.
Ei Yoshida, head of water purification for the Tokyo water department, said at a televised news conference that iodine 131 had been detected in water samples at a level of 210 becquerels per liter, about a quart. The recommended limit for infants is 100 becquerels per liter. For adults, the recommended limit is 300 becquerels. (The unit is named for Henri Becquerel, one of the discoverers of radioactivity.)
The announcement prompted a run on bottled water at stores in Tokyo and a pledge from the authorities to distribute bottled water to families with infants. Prime Minister Naoto Kan said earlier Wednesday that the public should avoid additional farm produce from areas near the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, severely damaged by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, according to the Japanese news media. 
The Health Ministry said that it was unlikely that there would be negative consequences for infants who were given the water, but that it should be avoided if possible and not be used to make infant formula. There was some confusion about the public health advice, with experts saying it should also apply to pregnant women, since they and fetuses were vulnerable.
''It's unfortunate, but the radiation is clearly being carried on the air from the Fukushima plant,'' Yukio Edano, the chief cabinet secretary, said Wednesday. ''Because it's raining, it's possible that a lot of places will be affected. Even if people consume the water a few times, there should be no long-term ill effects.''
As authorities tried to maintain calm in Tokyo, residents were racing to buy as much bottled water as they could, clearing the shelves of the city's stores. Mr. Edano said Thursday that officials were considering a plan to import water from overseas, to supplement the bottles they planned to begin distributing across the city.
Despite the frequent rain in recent days, it was not entirely clear why the levels of iodine were so high, said a senior Western nuclear executive, noting that the prevailing breezes seemed to be pushing radiation out to sea. ''The contamination levels are well beyond what you'd expect from what is in the public domain,'' said the executive, who insisted on anonymity and has broad contacts in Japan.
It was possible that the levels were an indirect indication that the problems at the plant were deeper than had been publicly acknowledged.
The daily Asahi Shimbun cited the Health Ministry as saying that drinking the water would hurt neither a pregnant woman nor her fetus, and that it was safe for bathing and other everyday activities.
But experts say that pregnant women, nursing mothers and fetuses, as well as children, face the greatest danger from radioactive iodine, which is taken in by the thyroid gland and can cause thyroid cancer. Children are at much higher risk than adults because they are growing, and their thyroid glands are more active and in need of iodine. In addition, the gland is smaller in children than in adults, so a given amount of iodine 131 will deliver a higher dose of radiation to a child's thyroid and potentially do more harm.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, if an adult and a child ingest the same amount of radioactive iodine, the thyroid dose will be 16 times higher to a newborn than to an adult; for a child under 1 year old, eight times the adult dose; for a 5-year-old, four times the adult dose.
Pregnant women also take up more iodine 131 in the thyroid, especially in the first trimester. The iodine crosses the placenta and reaches the fetus, and the fetal thyroid takes up more iodine as pregnancy progresses. During the first week after birth a baby's thyroid activity increases up to fourfold and stays at that level for a few days, so newborns are especially vulnerable.
Potassium iodide can protect the thyroid by saturating it with normal iodine. People in Japan have been advised to take it.
The 1986 accident at Chernobyl caused an epidemic of thyroid cancer -- 6,000 cases so far -- in people who were exposed as children. The culprit was milk produced by cows that had grazed on grass heavily carpeted by fallout. The epidemic could probably have been prevented if people in the region had been told not to drink milk and if they had been given potassium iodide.
The warning Wednesday applied to Tokyo's 23 wards, as well as to the towns of Mitaka, Tama, Musashino, Machida and Inagi to the west. At a press briefing on Thursday, Mr. Edano said radiation had also shown up in tests of water supplies for two of Tokyo's neighboring prefectures, Chiba and Saitama, in levels above the maximum recommended limits for infants, but below levels considered dangerous to adults.
At a Lawson convenience store in the Tsukiji neighborhood of central Tokyo, the shelves were about half-stocked with water. A clerk said he had restocked them just an hour before.
''People came in and cleared us out in the first hour after the announcement,'' he said, saying he did not want to be identified because he did not want to anger his boss. ''They were taking 20 or 30 bottles at a time.''
Outside the store a man struggling to load more than 30 half-liter bottles on his bicycle said he had bought the water for his wife, who is seven months pregnant.
''Tap water is O.K. for me,'' he said, asking that he be identified only by his family name, Takahashi. ''But all they said was that babies shouldn't drink it. They haven't said anything about what pregnant women should do.''
''We're going to stay in Tokyo for now,'' Mr. Takahashi, 31, said, ''unless the reactor problem gets worse.''
The city government said it would begin distributing 240,000 bottles of water on Thursday to families with children younger than 1 year, the broadcaster NHK reported. There are about 80,000 such children in the affected zone, NHK said. Outside Tokyo, the government said it had found radioactive materials exceeding legal limits in 11 vegetables in Fukushima Prefecture, the Kyodo news agency reported. Shipments of the affected vegetables from there ended on Monday. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Kan also suspended shipments of raw milk and parsley from neighboring Ibaraki Prefecture, Kyodo reported.
The United States Food and Drug Administration said on Tuesday that it would prohibit imports of dairy goods and produce from the affected region. Hong Kong also banned food and milk imports from the area. Canada on Wednesday imposed stricter controls on milk products, fruits and vegetables, and Australia on Thursday imposed new restrictions on food products including seaweed and seafood.
Mr. Kan's office said Wednesday that rebuilding after the 9.0-magnitude quake and tsunami would cost up to $309 billion. The World Bank, citing private estimates, said on Monday that the figure could reach $235 billion.
The economic cost of the disaster has hit the Tokyo Electric Power Company, which operates the crippled nuclear plant and is in negotiations with its bankers for loans of as much as $24 billion, according to a person with direct knowledge of the situation who asked not to be identified.
The Associated Press reported on Wednesday that the official death toll from the disaster had been raised to more than 9,500, with more than 16,000 people missing, although officials said there could be overlap between the figures.
Meanwhile, a magnitude 6.0 quake shook Fukushima Prefecture in the morning, according to the Japan Meteorological Agency, followed by a magnitude 5.8 tremor about 20 minutes later.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a shelter in Koriyama, Japan, a vice president of the Tokyo Electric Power Company, right, bowed in apology to evacuees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN SHIMIZU/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
Masayuki Tsuchiya, a farmer in Kawamata, dumping milk. The United States has barred some farm imports from Japan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YOMIURI SHIMBUN, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A12) MAPS: A health warning prompted a run on bottled water in Tokyo.
GRAPHIC: How Radiation Contamination Can Travel (Sources: Nuclear Regulatory Commission
 National Institutes of Health) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (91%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); BOTTLED WATER (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (79%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); INFANT FORMULA (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); TSUNAMIS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%)

PERSON: NAOTO KAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (97%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



549 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Your Money; A SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Too Busy for Finances, but a Baby Changes That

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
IN many respects, Bernardo Mainou, 31, and Natalie Thornburg, 34, are representative of a broad swath of couples in their 30s.
Married four years, they had their first child in February. They are well educated, and both are embarked on their careers at Vanderbilt University in Nashville. They have some concerns about their long-term job security -- their research is financed by a five-year grant. And with 10 weeks of combined maternity and paternity leave, they are nervous about the options and costs of child care for their son.
They have a little bit of savings, but they also have three credit cards with a total of about $35,000 of debt on them. They bought a three-bedroom house 20 minutes from work in 2007, for $167,000 with no money down, and a mortgage with a rate that adjusts every two years.
Mr. Mainou said they had paid the mortgage down by $12,000, but according to Zillow, the real estate Web site, their house is worth only $148,500. 
Yet when discussing their debt burden and a house worth less than they paid for it, they accept their situation and blame no one else for it. They are putting all their extra money toward paying down their credit cards each month.
The only hint of anger Mr. Mainou showed was toward Citibank, which raised the rate on one card to 18.99 percent from 12.99 percent, even though Mr. Mainou said he had never missed a payment.
''This is my debt, and I'm going to pay it off,'' Mr. Mainou said of the credit card bills. ''I didn't qualify for any student loans, and I was a young guy living beyond my means.''
Nor is Ms. Thornburg concerned about the drop in the value of their home. For her, the house represents stability after many years of renting in college and graduate school, and she said she hoped its value would rebound in case they had to sell it in a few years.
''I just want to break even,'' she said. ''Paying $1,100 a month on a mortgage was better than paying $1,100 to someone else for rent.''
They both said their attitudes toward money were formed when they were young. Ms. Thornburg described herself as ''middle middle class'' with two brothers, a father who worked as a scientist and a mother who stayed at home. Her upbringing in Pittsburgh was modest, she said, yet she had all she needed. ''I hate, hate, hate to think about money,'' she said. ''I really just want to have enough so we have enough food on our table and a safe home. I want to be able to live well and retire.'' She added, ''Having more money is never going to make me any happier.''
Mr. Mainou, who grew up in Mexico City, said his father had made a good living for quite a while, but lost his film business during the peso devaluation and recession in the mid-1990s. Then the family learned that his father had saved little.
''It was always spend now, think about the future later,'' he said. ''I inherited some of those traits, but I became more conservative with my money and thinking about the future.''
When they considered their finances, Mr. Mainou and Ms. Thornburg's top priorities were working their way out of credit card debt, saving in case something went wrong and figuring out child care come May, when their time off ends. The child care alone could range from $600 to $1,200 a month depending on where they place their son.
While all their concerns are valid, said Liz Durrell, a certified financial planner with LPL/Financial Advocates in Portland, Ore., their top priorities should be different.
The couple should instead focus on increasing their emergency fund, taking out life and disability insurance and paying off all nonmortgage debt, starting with the smallest piece and working their way up, said Ms. Durrell, 30, who has worked with many young academics at Portland State University.
''The emergency fund is No. 1,'' Ms. Durrell said. ''Clients say if I'm paying down more on my credit cards, then it's there when I need it. No, it's not. Banks could reduce their credit limits. The only thing that is there is cash.''
Insurance is necessary now because Mr. Mainou and Ms. Thornburg have a child, Ms. Durrell said, suggesting term life insurance with coverage of at least $600,000. That could cost as little as $50 a month, given the couple's ages and occupations.
Ms. Durrell also recommended disability insurance, which is always much more expensive than life insurance. She said that was necessary in case one of them could not work for some health reason.
Even if the insurance process was gradual, it should start now, Ms. Durrell said, adding, ''I may not be able to get them to the optimal level of both, but at least they'll have something.''
When it comes to credit card debt, Mr. Mainou and Ms. Thornburg have plenty of company. Ms. Durrell said her biggest battle with her clients in their 30s was on this front; too many of them have grown accustomed to carrying credit card balances because their friends do the same.
''One of the things with working with young people is to coach them not to feel comfortable with credit card debt, even if society says it's O.K.,'' Ms. Durrell said.
Asked about the unexplained spike in Mr. Mainou's credit card rate, Sean Kevelighan, a spokesman for Citibank, said, ''Repricing was necessary given the doubling of credit card losses across the industry from customers not paying back their loans and regulatory changes that eliminate repricing for that risk.''
He said the bank had decided to lower Mr. Mainou's rate to 16.99 percent even before an inquiry from The New York Times.
Mr. Mainou and Ms. Thornburg said their conversation with Ms. Durrell had changed the way they thought about money. (Mr. Mainou also said he was not pleased with Citibank's explanation.)
They said they were going to look into finding insurance immediately, but the switch from paying down debt to putting money into an emergency fund was going to be more difficult.
''That is making me twitchy,'' Ms. Thornburg said. ''The idea that debt is bad has been drilled into our heads. But if you have it, the last thing you should be doing is paying your minimum.''
The eye-opening moment for the couple, who both have Ph.D.'s in microbiology from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, came when they realized that they had overlooked facts in their personal finances in a way they never would in their work.
''We're scientists, so we spend the bulk of our lives being data-driven,'' Mr. Mainou said. ''We managed to live 30 years of our lives without looking at the financial data.''
Ms. Thornburg said changing how they thought about money would be hard, but she was glad to have the chance to do it now, while their son was young.
''It's going to be more time and effort that we don't necessarily have,'' she said. ''We have a baby and we'll do it for him. We don't want to be a drain on him. We want to send him to college like my parents did for me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bernardo Mainou and Natalie Thornburg, with son, Tyler, were focusing on credit card debt. An adviser had other ideas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); PATERNITY LEAVE (76%); MATERNITY LEAVE (76%); HOME PRICES (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); FAMILY LEAVE (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); CHILD CARE (70%)

COMPANY: ZILLOW INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



550 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: The Cuts Cascade as States Pass Fiscal Pain to Cities

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The state budget squeeze is fast becoming a city budget squeeze, as struggling states around the nation plan deep cuts in aid to cities and local governments that will almost certainly result in more service cuts, layoffs and local tax increases.
The cuts are widespread. Ohio plans to slash aid to Columbus, Cleveland, Cincinnati and other cities and local governments by more than a half-billion dollars over the next two years under the budget proposed last week by its new Republican governor, John R. Kasich. Nebraska passed a law this month eliminating direct state aid to Omaha and other municipalities. The governors of Wisconsin and Michigan have called for sending less money to Milwaukee, Detroit and other local governments.
And it is not only Republicans who are cutting aid to cities: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, a Democrat, decided not to restore $302 million in aid to New York City that was cut last year, while Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, another Democrat, has called for cutting local aid to Boston and other cities by some $65 million. 
Some mayors said the proposed cuts could force them to raise local property taxes, even as many homeowners complain that they are already overtaxed. Many are combing through their budgets, looking to wring out more savings where they can. Libraries may close. Garbage collection could be curtailed. Potholes might linger a bit longer. Some warned that they could be forced to lay off more city workers, including police officers and firefighters.
For cities like Cleveland, the proposed cuts in state aid mean that the light at the end of the budgetary tunnel is that much farther off.
''We weathered the storm pretty good when other cities were having huge layoffs, and eliminating or reducing services,'' Mayor Frank G. Jackson of Cleveland said in an interview. ''But the impact of this will force us into that mode.''
Mr. Jackson said the city had anticipated a reduction in state aid, estimating a 20 percent dip in its most recent budget. But Governor Kasich's budget proposal would go even deeper: it calls for cutting aid to local governments by a quarter next year, and in half the year after that.
For Cleveland, Mr. Jackson said, that would translate into deficits of $16 million next year and $24 million, or 5 percent of the city's operating budget, the following year. Having spent down the city's reserves to get through the recession, and used up several one-time deals to balance its budgets, Cleveland will have to come up with more money or savings elsewhere.
Other cities in Ohio are struggling as well. In Akron, Mayor Donald L. Plusquellic said the cuts would erode the third-largest source of revenue for the city's general fund. ''I fear that, as a result of this reduction, Akron will have no choice but to once again look at layoffs in the biggest part of our budget: police and fire salaries,'' he said in a statement.
The reductions in state aid, along with falling property tax revenues that are finally catching up with lower home values, are major sources of fiscal stress for many cities. Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said in a speech this month that ''many localities have been hard hit by reductions in state aid, which in 2008 accounted for about 30 percent of local revenues.'' And Moody's Investors Service, the ratings agency, said in a report last week that many states ''are increasingly pushing down their problems to their local governments.'' The Moody's report warned that this would be ''the toughest year for local governments since the economic downturn began.''
The cuts are a vivid illustration of a fact of fiscal life: budgetary pain flows downhill. Although state tax collections are finally improving again after the longest and deepest decline on record, they remain well below their prerecession levels. Stimulus money from Washington, which helped keep many states afloat over the last two years, is drying up. So states facing large deficits are proposing cuts in local aid. Ohio's deficit is projected to be $8 billion over the course of its two-year budget -- hence Governor Kasich's proposed cuts.
Nebraska did not just reduce local aid, it eliminated it. Much less money was at stake -- the law is estimated to save the state $22 million a year -- but cities are nonetheless worried about the effects of the cuts. ''This year, instead of cutting us all a certain percent, they went after the state aid totally, all 100 percent of it,'' said Chris Beutler, the mayor of Lincoln. Mr. Beutler said that the cut would cost the city $1.8 million a year and force it to raise property taxes or cut services.
Direct aid represents only a fraction of the money flowing from states to local governments. When Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York went to Albany last month, he said that by his count the budget Mr. Cuomo had proposed would reduce aid to the city by $2.1 billion, of which only around $300 million was in the form of direct municipal aid. The rest included a reduction of $1.4 billion to the city's public schools, which in New York City are under the control of the mayor, and $380 million in cuts and cost shifts in social services. Mr. Bloomberg warned that the city would be forced to lay off more workers if the cuts went through.
Chris Hoene, the director of research for the National League of Cities, said that many states eliminated direct aid to cities -- used to keep property taxes low, ease disparities among localities and help pay for general government services -- after past recessions. Now, he said, most of the coming state cuts will be in the form of cuts to specific programs. Cuts to child health care, mental health programs, libraries or transportation will all have an impact on cities. On top of that, many states also have complex revenue-sharing programs with local governments, and a number of them are proposing to keep more of the money for themselves.
Mr. Hoene said the coming cuts were ''a big, scary question mark'' hanging over local governments. ''Cities have made their estimates, and made cuts based on revenue projections,'' he said. ''The factor that they can't control, and that's concerning for them, is what's going to happen in the deliberations in state legislatures over the next three months.''
Local aid cuts can be like squeezing a balloon: states reduce their spending and hold down their taxes, but cities can be forced to increase their spending and raise their taxes. That is one argument being made in Minnesota, where a new Democratic governor, Mark Dayton, has been fighting cuts to local aid proposed by Republican lawmakers. The governor said aid to Minnesota's cities had dropped by 24 percent since 2003 -- and that two-thirds of the cuts were passed on to local residents in the form of higher property taxes.
Many governors say they plan to give cities and local governments tools to balance their budgets, some by reducing costly state mandates, some by weakening union protections in their states, some by encouraging cities to consolidate duplicative services. Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan, a Republican, is cutting aid to cities, villages and towns for a net savings of $92 million. But he said he would also make $200 million available to cities and towns that ''adopt best practices.'' Detroit and other hard-hit cities are worried about the proposal, though.
''No city in the state has taken such an aggressive approach to such serious structural problems as Detroit,'' Mayor Dave Bing of Detroit said of the proposal in a recent speech. ''Yet no city would be hit harder than us. It threatens the concrete but fragile gains we have made, and we simply cannot afford it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Opponents of cuts marching in Columbus, Ohio. Local governments would lose more than a half-billion dollars over two years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RUSSELL/THE COLUMBUS DISPATCH, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio wants to cut aid to municipalities by a quarter next year and in half the year after that. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BROOKE LAVALLEY/THE COLUMBUS DISPATCH, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); CITIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); TAX LAW (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LEGISLATION (70%)

PERSON: JOHN KASICH (76%); DEVAL PATRICK (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (95%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (94%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



551 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: An Update of New York's Outdated Directory? The Waiting Continues

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
George W. Bush is still president. And Hillary Rodham Clinton is still the junior senator from New York. Say what?
Well, that is what it says in the most recent edition of the Green Book, the official directory of the City of New York. But recent in this case means June 2008, the last time the directory was published. 
Every year, journalists, lobbyists and government watchdogs await the newest edition of the Green Book, with its alphabetized and indexed list of names, phone numbers and agencies.
So why, then, no new Green Book?
The answer, according to the Bloomberg administration, has nothing to do with the current economic malaise. Nor does it have anything to do with any plans to put the Green Book online. And there is certainly no evidence that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg either wants to delay publication or has made this a lower-than-low priority.
Instead, the official explanation is that there have been too many things to update, first after the 2009 citywide elections, then after the 2010 elections.
''It's just a matter of government ever-changing,'' said Mark Daly, a spokesman for the city's Department of Citywide Administrative Services, which publishes the Green Book.
The city now says that it hopes to publish a new edition in a few months. Then again, this is exactly what Mr. Daly said last year, when asked whether the economic downturn had caused a delay in publication.
''No, it's not for budget reasons - we want to capture all the post-election changes,'' he wrote in a May 24, 2010 e-mail, referring to the 2009 election. ''We expect to have a new edition out this summer.''
When asked this week why that edition never materialized, Mr. Daly said that the 2010 election forced the city's hand, because ''it's a bad idea to put something out before election season.''
Certainly the city is eager to get the new edition out as quickly as possible. After all, the 2008-9 edition was published before Mr. Bloomberg began to mull a third term.
Even Albany has the upper hand when it comes to official directories; the most recent edition of the New York Red Book is 2010.
Once the new Green Book is published, the city can expect to make several hundred thousand dollars. Almost 20,000 editions have been sold of the 2008 edition, at $19.95 apiece. But sales have slowed to just 77 a month, Mr. Daly said.
Bob Liff, a former City Hall reporter who is now a political consultant, joked that ''the last time I checked it, Wagner was still mayor,'' referring to Robert F. Wagner.
Jim Grossman, a veteran public relations executive, said the outdated information made his job harder, especially given the absence of an online substitute.
''It's a really useful resource for people who interact with any part of government - be it city, state, federal or the courts,'' he said, before pleading, ''Mayor Bloomberg, bring back the Green Book!''
Our political reporters, and occasional guests, offer you a peek inside Albany and City Hall. Check back every Wednesday.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (88%); DIRECTORY & DATABASE PUBLISHING (77%); WRITERS (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); BUDGETS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



552 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Ready or Not, Iraq Ascends To Take Helm Of Arab Bloc

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Paris, and Zaid Thaker from Baghdad.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- After Libya was suspended from the Arab League last month, de facto leadership ended up coincidentally in the hands of Iraq, the Arab nation with the most experience -- much of it painful -- with a foreign-led military campaign against an unpopular dictator.
For all of that still unsettled pain, the foreign minister, Hoshyar Zebari -- in his new capacity as head of the Arab League -- rushed off to Paris last Friday evening to join Western and Arab allies, where he argued passionately in favor of action against Libya, citing the American no-fly zone in northern Iraq that protected the Kurdish population from Saddam Hussein in the years before the American invasion here, according to a senior official who took part in the Paris deliberations. 
And soon, Iraqi leaders, who are facing their own protest movement, plan to use their own troublesome democracy, still bloody and inchoate, as a showcase for Middle East countries. Iraq is taking on a larger diplomatic role in regional affairs as host of the group's annual summit meeting -- while assuming the rotating presidency of the league -- in May.
''If there's a political message, it's that Iraq is back to play a major and positive role in the Arab region,'' said Labid Abawi, the deputy foreign minister who has led a committee to prepare Baghdad for the summit meeting.
''We take pride in that Iraq has already exceeded all these other Arab countries in establishing a democratic regime,'' he said. ''Now, we can say yes, we are on the right track, and other Arab countries can follow suit in establishing a democratic regime.''
Before the democratic uprisings across the Middle East, the summit meeting had already been seen as an occasion of national pride. Now it represents something larger -- an opportunity, Iraqi leaders say, to showcase its fragile democracy. Some Iraqi diplomats envision emerging from the meeting with a so-called ''Baghdad Declaration,'' a statement that would define the principles of modern Middle Eastern democracy.
But, even with all the gains here, any such declaration would be freighted with unintentional irony.
Iraq, with a democracy imposed by American force, is still a volatile tableau from which to draw lessons about how to establish a democracy in the Middle East. Insurgent attacks occur daily. Its prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, has raised alarms recently with moves to consolidate power over the judiciary and the security forces. Transparency International ranked Iraq as the fourth most corrupt country in the world last year, just ahead of Afghanistan, Myanmar and Somalia. Iraq is still more violent for civilians than Afghanistan, and American soldiers still die here, as one did Sunday from a roadside bomb in the south.
''They have some of the institutions of democracy, and habits, but not the mentality,'' said one senior diplomat here, who spoke anonymously to maintain relationships with the Iraqi leadership. ''Politics in Iraq is zero sum.''
Last year more than 60 percent of Iraqis turned out to vote in parliamentary elections, which were largely deemed free and fair by international monitors. But many critics argue that in a nation where religion is intertwined with politics -- outside Parliament last week little green flags flew with the words ''Muhammad is our leader'' -- rights to assemble and express oneself, as well as press freedoms, are under increasing attack.
''Democracy is not just elections, of course,'' said Allaa Talabani, a Kurdish lawmaker. ''Democracy is belief. It is practice. Elections are just a mechanism.''
Iraq has faced widespread protests aimed not at upending the government, but at improving it. Still, as it takes its place on the stage of world affairs it does so at a time when its own version of democracy seems to many to be creeping backward toward authoritarianism.
The gulf between the Green Zone political elite and the Iraqi street remains vast, and the stirrings of Iraq's own youth-led movement, inspired partly by the events in Egypt and Tunisia, suggest an effort to articulate an indigenous version of democracy, different from the one imposed after the American invasion.
The summit meeting, earlier scheduled for March, has already been delayed by the region's tumult, and although Mr. Zebari has insisted it will go forward, lawmakers and diplomats privately express skepticism and wonder if Arab leaders will dare leave their countries for fear of being overthrown in their absence.
Meanwhile, on the Baghdad streets a facelift is under way to prepare the city for Arab leaders, should they arrive, to accentuate the more hopeful features of Iraq's transition.
Hotels, many scarred from bombings, are being refurbished. Concrete blast walls that dominate the aesthetic of Baghdad will be dismantled, as will many checkpoints on the road leading from the airport to the city's center. One five-star hotel planned for the Green Zone remains a foundation and a honeycomb of scaffolding.
And on some of Baghdad's main thoroughfares shopkeepers have been busy painting and cleaning, per a dictum from the city government. The result on Zaydoon Street, a big shopping boulevard in the center of the city, has been garish bursts of bright colors and shiny buildings amid the urban war-zone blight of razor coils and thatches of electricity wires, the beginnings of a Potemkin city that suggest an economic boom that has yet to take hold.
Still, it suggests an everyday life that continues to emerge here slowly. On one recent afternoon, a television reporter conducted a stand-up spot on the median, while an amputee sold boxes of tissues to passing cars in front of a pharmacy newly painted a bright orange.
Over the last turbulent months in the Middle East, history has pivoted in lighting-quick fashion from the egomaniacal perversions of its leaders to the democratic aspirations of its people. With Arab leaders soon to descend on Iraq, its violent and lurching trajectory toward democracy, from foreign invasion to sectarian civil war to the low-grade insurgency that menaces this country to this day, will most likely be as much cautionary tale as road map for reform.
Iraq, still occupied by close to 50,000 American troops and reliant on United States advisers to defend its air space and protect against foreign threats, is not participating in the military action against Libya, which began last Saturday, the eighth anniversary of the American invasion that imposed a version of democracy still far from finished.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); ARMED FORCES (72%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (91%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



553 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Discord Among Allies

 BODY:
Many people were taken aback when France emerged as one of the most pugnacious advocates of military action in Libya, especially Americans who were accustomed to French criticism over Iraq and French foot-dragging over Afghanistan. Without President Nicolas Sarkozy's early and constant pressure for a United Nations-endorsed no-flight zone, military intervention might have come too late to save Benghazi's people from the murderous threats of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
Now, Mr. Sarkozy needs to step back and let NATO take the lead. After a phone conversation with President Obama on Tuesday, he seems ready to do so, but the details need to be finalized quickly. French efforts to appear the leader and prime coordinator of that intervention have needlessly strained relations with other participating countries. This is a time for the military coalition to come together, not to splinter. It is irresponsible that the command sequence was not decided before the military operation was launched. 
Mr. Sarkozy had his reasons for taking such an aggressive stance on Libya. His government had badly bungled the peaceful democratic revolution in Tunisia by clinging to that country's brutal and venal dictator. He saw Libya as a chance to recoup French prestige in North Africa, a region France has long considered important to its economy and security. And he jumped at the chance to look like a world leader in the run-up to next year's hotly contested presidential election.
The Obama administration, meanwhile, was internally split and reluctant to take on military operations in a third Muslim nation while still deeply involved in Iraq and Afghanistan. So it was France who took the lead in recognizing the Libyan rebels and, with Britain, in drafting a United Nations Security Council resolution authorizing military actions to protect Libyan civilians.
Had France pushed less hard, pro-government forces might well have advanced further into the rebel-held city of Benghazi, where Colonel Qaddafi had sworn to show no mercy. That did quite a lot to enhance France's image around the world.
But if Mr. Sarkozy wants to emerge from this crisis with his international standing still enhanced, the right thing to do is to step back and let a NATO-coordinated combination of the countries taking part in military operations assume command. That kind of hybrid approach has been used before when other countries joined NATO in military action, for example in Kosovo in the 1990s and in Afghanistan today. It is not perfect, but it is better than the alternatives, including France's pet idea of a council of participating foreign ministers providing political direction while NATO confined itself to military execution. That's a prescription for paralysis and discord, and possible defections from the coalition.
Italy, for example, is the nearest NATO nation to the Libyan battlefront and the European country with the greatest economic stake in the outcome. It has made clear that it prefers a NATO-led mission to a French-led one. So would Norway, which has refused to participate unless NATO is in charge. And NATO leadership might make for smoother coordination with Turkey, an important NATO member, which plans to send warships but avoid actual combat.
NATO leadership best serves American interests. The United States took the lead in knocking out Libyan air defenses. That made sense because it alone has the cruise missiles for the job. Now the Obama administration rightly wants to hand off military leadership to its NATO partners. Mr. Sarkozy would do himself, and the Libyan democratic cause he supports, a big favor by smoothing the path to NATO leadership.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (96%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); TUNISIA (79%); ITALY (79%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



554 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Shady Dealings Helped Qaddafi Amass Fortune

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU, DAVID ROHDE and JAMES RISEN; Barclay Walsh contributed research.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In 2009, top aides to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi called together 15 executives from global energy companies operating in Libya's oil fields and issued an extraordinary demand: Shell out the money for his country's $1.5 billion bill for its role in the downing of Pan Am Flight 103 and other terrorist attacks.
If the companies did not comply, the Libyan officials warned, there would be ''serious consequences'' for their oil leases, according to a State Department summary of the meeting.
Many of those businesses balked, saying that covering Libya's legal settlement with victims' families for acts of terrorism was unthinkable. But some companies, including several based in the United States, appeared willing to give in to Libya's coercion and make what amounted to payoffs to keep doing business, according to industry executives, American officials and State Department documents. 
The episode and others like it, the officials said, reflect a Libyan culture rife with corruption, kickbacks, strong-arm tactics and political patronage since the United States reopened trade with Colonel Qaddafi's government in 2004. As American and international oil companies, telecommunications firms and contractors moved into the Libyan market, they discovered that Colonel Qaddafi or his loyalists often sought to extract millions of dollars in ''signing bonuses'' and ''consultancy contracts'' -- or insisted that the strongman's sons get a piece of the action through shotgun partnerships.
''Libya is a kleptocracy in which the regime -- either the al-Qadhafi family itself or its close political allies -- has a direct stake in anything worth buying, selling or owning,'' a classified State Department cable said in 2009, using the department's spelling of Qaddafi.
The wealth that Colonel Qaddafi's family and his government accumulated with the help of international corporations in the years since the lifting of economic sanctions by the West helped fortify his hold on his country. While the outcome of the military intervention under way by the United States and allied countries is uncertain, Colonel Qaddafi's resources -- including a stash of tens of billions of dollars in cash that American officials believe he is using to pay soldiers, mercenaries and supporters -- may help him avert, or at least delay, his removal from power.
The government not only exploited corporations eager to do business, but willing governments as well. Libya's banks apparently collected lucrative fees by helping Iran launder huge sums of money in recent years in violation of international sanctions on Tehran, according to another cable from Tripoli included in a batch of classified documents obtained by WikiLeaks. In 2009, the cable said, American diplomats warned Libyan officials that its dealings with Iran were jeopardizing Libya's enhanced world standing for the sake of ''potential short-term business gains.''
In the first few years after trade restrictions were lifted -- Colonel Qaddafi had given up his country's nuclear capabilities and pledged to renounce terrorism -- many American companies were hesitant to do business with Libya's government, officials said. But with an agreement on a settlement over Libya's role in the Pan Am bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland, finally reached in 2008, officials at the United States Commerce Department began to serve as self-described matchmakers for American businesses.
At least a dozen American corporations, including Boeing, Raytheon, ConocoPhillips, Occidental, Caterpillar and Halliburton, gained footholds, or tried to do so. In May, the Obama administration and the Qaddafi government signed a new trade agreement, designed, according to Gene Cretz, the American ambassador to Libya, to ''broaden and deepen our bilateral economic relations.''
Libya became so flush with cash that Bernard L. Madoff, the New York financial manager who stole billions of dollars in a long-running Ponzi scheme, approached officials overseeing the country's $70 billion sovereign fund a few years ago about an ''investment opportunity,'' according to a State Department summary of the episode in 2010. ''We did not accept,'' a Libyan official reported.
Colonel Qaddafi, the State Department said, was personally involved in many business decisions. He worked with local ''riqaba'' councils, an oversight committee set up by the Libyan government to dole out business with foreign firms, and insisted on signing off on all contracts worth more than $200 million. He also learned how to hide money and investments in case sanctions were ever imposed again, as they recently have been.
Colonel Qaddafi and his family set up accounts in banks around the world that are in the names of members of Libyan tribes that remain loyal to his government, said Idris Abdulla Abed Al-Senussi, a member of the exiled Libyan royal family, who is familiar with many of Colonel Qaddafi's business dealings. (Some accounts may have been frozen by authorities, who have blocked access to tens of billions of dollars.) And Qaddafi relatives adopted lavish lifestyles -- including posh homes, Hollywood film investments and private parties with American pop stars.
When Colonel Qaddafi was not making the decisions, one of his sons -- whom he has anointed to run various sectors of the country's economy -- often was.
Daniel E. Karson, executive managing partner at Kroll, a risk-consulting firm, recalled in an interview that an international communications company he represented tried to enter the Libyan cellular phone market in 2007. From the outset, Libyan officials made it clear that the foreign company's local business partner would have to be Muhammad Qaddafi, the eldest son of the Libyan ruler.
''We advised them they would have to go through Muhammad Qaddafi,'' said Mr. Karson, who declined to identify the client. ''This was not going to be done on the basis of, as they say in retail, price, quality and delivery.'' Fearful of going into business with the Qaddafis, he said, the company made no investments in Libya.
Coca-Cola got caught in the middle of a fierce dispute between Muhammad Qaddafi and his brother Mutassim over control of a bottling plant the soda maker had opened in 2005, forcing it to shut down the plant for months amid armed confrontations, a diplomatic cable noted.
And Caterpillar, the Illinois machine maker, was about to finalize a lucrative deal in 2009 to provide equipment for infrastructure projects when Libya demanded the company become a partner with a state-owned company controlled by the Qaddafis, according to the State Department documents. Caterpillar resisted and was blocked by Libya from the work after intervention by American diplomats failed to break the impasse.
When Qaddafi aides demanded payment for the Lockerbie settlement from oil companies operating in Libya, a State Department cable in February 2009 reported, industry executives had indicated ''that smaller operators and service companies might relent and pay.'' Several industry officials and someone close to the settlement, all speaking only on condition of anonymity, said the payments went through but declined to identify the businesses.
Other companies also struck costly deals with the government. In 2008, Occidental Petroleum, based in California, paid a $1 billion ''signing bonus'' to the Libyan government as part of 30-year agreement. A company spokesman said it was not uncommon for firms to pay large bonuses for long-term contracts.
The year before, Petro-Canada, a large Canadian oil company, made a similar $1 billion payment after Libyan officials granted it a 30-year oil exploration license, according to diplomatic cables and company officials.
The company also hired Jack Richards, a business consultant based in the British Virgin Islands and close friend of the Qaddafis, as their local agent to cement the deal, according to The Globe and Mail, a Canadian newspaper. Mr. Richards, who could not be reached for comment, reportedly used shooting trips to British royal estates to win the family's support.
The company also courted a Qaddafi son, Seif al-Islam. Petro-Canada sponsored an exhibit of his paintings -- ridiculed by Canadian critics as ''lurid'' and a ''triumph of banality'' -- after museums refused. A Montreal business, SNC-Lavalin, which won more than $1 billion in Libyan contracts, also sponsored the exhibit and a soccer team that hired another Qaddafi son, Saadi, as a player.
In Norway, two top officials at the state-run oil company quit in 2007 and came under government investigation after it was revealed the company had made more than $7 million in apparently illegal ''consultancy agreements'' with Libya.
Looking back on the decision in 2004 to resume business dealings, Juan Zarate, a former top White House and Treasury official in the administration of President George W. Bush, said that officials had believed then that the benefits of trying to rehabilitate Colonel Qaddafi outweighed the obvious risks. ''It was a deal with the devil,'' Mr. Zarate said.
''The hope was that with normalization, Qaddafi would serve less as the mad dog of the Middle East and more as a partner,'' he added. ''But I don't think this is the way anyone would have wanted it to work out.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); OIL & GAS LEASES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TERRORISM (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (75%); FAMILY (74%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); CORRUPTION (67%); ARMED FORCES (61%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (55%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (58%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (51%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAN (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011



555 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: In Tending Its Interests, Germany Steps Away From European Unity

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and JUDY DEMPSEY; Steven Erlanger reported from Paris, and Judy Dempsey from Berlin.

 BODY:
PARIS -- Driven by electoral pressures and Germany's postwar aversion to war and nuclear power, Chancellor Angela Merkel has deeply strained relations with allies in the European Union and the NATO alliance, raising new questions about Germany's ability to play a global role in foreign policy, even as its economic power and influence grow.
By abstaining in the Security Council on the resolution authorizing military action to protect Libyan civilians -- and by refusing on Wednesday to participate in the enforcement of an arms embargo on Libya that the United Nations authorized -- Germany pointedly refused to go along with the political aims and leadership of its two most important European allies, Britain and France, as well as the United States. The decision made the idea of a united European foreign policy seem further away than ever, even if France had broken solidarity first by suddenly recognizing the Libyan opposition as the legitimate government of the country. 
And by choosing to shut down seven older nuclear plants in Germany after the nuclear crisis in Japan, Mrs. Merkel reversed her own policy and further ruffled relations with France, which derives 75 percent of its electric power from nuclear plants.
The new strains come weeks after Germany issued demands for economic austerity in the countries that use the euro as the price for new loan guarantees to troubled countries like Greece and Ireland. Portugal is thought by many to be next in line for a bailout. Germany, the richest and largest member of the European Union, has been tough and not always diplomatic in refusing to come to the aid of more profligate countries unless they undergo painful budget cuts and economic restructuring.
Taken together, the actions in Berlin demonstrate anew Germany's increasing willingness in a post-cold-war world to act like other countries, subordinating relations with allies for the sake of national interests -- and even for domestic political reasons.
Mrs. Merkel's decision to abstain from the Security Council vote was fiercely criticized by many in her own party, while Joschka Fischer, a member of the opposition Greens and a former foreign minister, wrote that ''Germany has lost its credibility in the United Nations and the Middle East'' and that ''German hopes for a permanent seat on the Security Council have been permanently dashed.''
Klaus Naumann, the former head of the German military, said that ''even the idea of a European Union seat'' on the Security Council had been damaged, adding, ''Germany has turned the idea of a unified European Union foreign policy into a farce.''
In a meeting of Mrs. Merkel's own parliamentary caucus, Ruprecht Polenz, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, called Germany's abstention ''a catastrophic signal,'' according to Der Spiegel. Christian Ruck of the Christian Social Union, the Bavarian sister party, complained that ''the European Union is falling apart.''
It is not easy to draw a clear line through all these events, said Stefan Kornelius, foreign editor of the daily Suddeutsche Zeitung. Germany is still ''the savior of the euro,'' he said, ''and it's unthinkable that one day Germany should be the savior of Europe and the backbone of the economic union and the next the funeral director of alliance politics.''
The Libyan vote was ''highly disturbing,'' coming out of pacifism, exceptionalism, immaturity and fear of domestic backlash, he said. ''And it came at an unfortunate time for Merkel, when the country was driven by angst due to the nuclear accident in Japan. So this combination of nuclear angst and deeply rooted pacifism just ahead of very important state elections -- this was the perfect storm.''
The German government, caught up in the political fallout from the Japanese nuclear calamity, decided to abstain at the United Nations because that was a ''more honest'' expression of Germany's aversion to military action of its own in Libya, said a government official who spoke on condition of anonymity, following diplomatic protocol.
The official stressed, however, that the government's attention had been focused primarily on Japan. When history is written, he said, ''people will remember 9/11, the fall of the Berlin Wall, the Kennedy assassinations and Fukushima.''
Francois Heisbourg, special adviser for the Foundation for Strategic Research in Paris, said it was uncomfortable for Germany to find itself in the company of Russia, China, India and Brazil while its main European allies and the United States voted for the resolution.
Given that President Nicolas Sarkozy of France had infuriated Mrs. Merkel and other European allies by his unilateral and seemingly impulsive recognition of the Libyan opposition, Mr. Heisbourg said, it seems unfair to simply blame Berlin for the breach in European unity. ''But in public opinion, it looks like Germany refused European and Western solidarity,'' he said.
Mrs. Merkel is acting with serious political constraints, with her coalition partner, the Free Democrats, dropping in the polls and their leader, Guido Westerwelle, the foreign minister who came out so strongly against the Libyan operation, considered to be in danger of losing his party leadership. State elections are chipping away at her control of the upper house of Parliament.
If her Christian Democratic Union loses its traditional stronghold of Baden-Wurttemberg in elections on Sunday, as polls indicate it will, she will face an opposition majority in parliament, badly weakening her political authority and freedom of action.
''The nuclear decision was Merkel trying to stem a political tsunami,'' said Constanze Stelzenmuller, a senior fellow at the German Marshall Fund in Berlin. ''This was crisis prevention.'''
Ms. Stelzenmuller suggested that Germany's growing isolationism was part of a larger movement away from the certainties of cold-war alliances and institutions. With the end of the cold war, these more national priorities were inevitable, but are uncomfortable. ''We Germans are doing what others are doing, but we are whipsawing more.'''
Germany explained its decision to withdraw its naval forces from the Mediterranean by saying the arms embargo on Libya needed a parliamentary mandate, since it could involve military force.
At the same time, to placate German allies, the government approved sending 300 more soldiers to Afghanistan to operate NATO surveillance planes, to ease the strain on countries that are involved in Libya and may need to redeploy forces.
Opposition lawmakers were unimpressed, however. ''It's a perverse logic,'' said Wolfgang Gehrcke, foreign affairs spokesman of the Left party, ''to exacerbate the war in Afghanistan because one doesn't want to get involved in a war in Libya.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters in Benghazi, Libya, with a French national flag on Wednesday. President Nicolas Sarkozy of France broke solidarity with allies by recognizing Libya's opposition as its government. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALED ELFIQI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Mr. Sarkozy with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who has shown a willingness to subordinate foreign relations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GONZALO FUENTES/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); CAUCUSES (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); ARMS EMBARGOES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GREECE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



556 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Chief Takes Stand in Trading Case

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN and AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
The chief executive of Goldman Sachs, Lloyd C. Blankfein, testified on Wednesday in the insider-trading trial of Raj Rajaratnam, who before his arrest in 2009 was among the most powerful hedge fund managers on Wall Street.
It was a unusual role for the Goldman chief executive, who has had audiences with presidents, foreign leaders and chieftains of the world's largest companies. But on Wednesday, he was addressing a jury of New Yorkers - including teachers, transit workers and the unemployed - all of whom said they had never heard of Mr. Blankfein during the jury selection process.
Federal prosecutors subpoenaed Mr. Blankfein to testify in the case against Mr. Rajaratnam, the co-founder of the Galleon Group who is facing up to 25 years in prison on charges that he earned $45 million trading on illegal stock tips. Among those the government says conspired with Mr. Rajaratnam was Rajat K. Gupta, a former Goldman director who has been accused of giving Mr. Rajaratnam highly sensitive information about the bank's board meetings during the financial crisis.
In his testimony, Mr. Blankfein said that board members including Mr. Gupta had been privy to such information, which was not meant to be discussed with anyone outside Goldman. Details of board meetings, if leaked before public announcements, have the potential to move a company's stock price, and thus can be valuable to outside investors. 
Azam Ahmed and Guilbert Gates/The New York Times Click on the above graphic to get a visual overview of the Galleon information network
It is extremely rare for a chief executive of a major Wall Street firm to testify in a criminal trial. The nearest precedent is in 1990, during the insider trading scandals of that era, when Frederick H. Joseph, the former chief executive of Drexel Burnham Lambert, testified in a presentencing hearing for Michael R. Milken, the financier who served prison time for securities violations.
Mr. Blankfein, a former tax lawyer, appeared at ease on the witness stand, smiling periodically throughout his testimony. Judge Richard J. Holwell's courtroom, just a mile away from Goldman's headquarters in Manhattan, proved to be a much friendlier location than where Mr. Blankfein last testified under oath. Last April, he sat before a panel of senators on Capitol Hill who vilified him and accused Goldman of unfairly profiting at the expense of its customers. Mr. Blankfein defended the bank to less than rave reviews.
The prosecution proceeded with caution in its questioning, apparently so that the jury would not view him as a wealthy banking executive who had played a role in the financial crisis. On Tuesday, prosecutors had expressed concern that testimony about the crisis could unfairly prejudice the jury against him.
Mr. Blankfein, 56, was asked where he grew up (Brooklyn) and what high school he had attended (Thomas Jefferson). The prosecutor, Andrew Michaelson, then asked Mr. Blankfein if he attended college. ''Yes,'' he replied. Left unmentioned were the executive's undergraduate and law degrees from Harvard.
The government and Mr. Blankfein also avoided mentioning the phrase ''financial crisis.'' On Wednesday, Mr. Blankfein described September 2008 as ''a volatile period in the market,'' saying that it was ''a dangerous time'' that ''made us nervous.'' There was also ''riskiness'' and a ''general insecurity,'' he said.
Dressed in a dark suit and royal blue tie, Mr. Blankfein revealed several details about his role as the chief executive of the world's largest investment bank. He checks the bank's profit and loss statement every day, he said, but typically ignores the daily e-mail on the statement, and instead prefers to listen to it on a daily voice mail. In addition to the Goldman board's regularly scheduled board meetings, Mr. Blankfein says he makes ''just-checking-in calls'' to outside directors.
His relaxed countenance on the witness stand belied the fact that he was forced to relive the last months of 2008, the most challenging time in Goldman's 142-year-history. It was during that period that the government says the former director, Mr. Gupta, told Mr. Rajaratnam about Goldman board meetings. During a meeting in October 2008, Mr. Blankfein told the board that the bank's performance was exceptionally weak and was on track to post its first quarterly loss as a public company. The prosecutor asked Mr. Blankfein what was happening then.
''We were losing money,'' he said.
''What was the significance of that?'' the prosecutor asked.
''We generally make money,'' Mr. Blankfein said, smirking.
The Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this month filed a civil action accusing Mr. Gupta, a former managing director of the McKinsey & Company consulting firm, of providing Mr. Rajaratnam with secret business information about Goldman on three specific occasions.
Federal prosecutors have named Mr. Gupta a co-conspirator of Mr. Rajaratnam but have not filed criminal charges against him. Mr. Gupta's lawyer has said the government's charges are baseless and that his client has done nothing wrong.
On cross-examination, Mr. Rajaratnam's lawyer, John Dowd, also elicited testimony from Mr. Blankfein about his knowledge that Mr. Gupta was involved in the case against Mr. Rajaratnam in 2010, when the firm said that Mr. Gupta would not stand for re-election. Mr. Blankfein said he ''had an inkling'' of Mr. Gupta's connection to the case but found out much more after he stepped down from the board.
Like witnesses who have preceded him in the trial's opening weeks, Mr. Blankfein's testimony served as a battleground between the prosecution and the defense over what was material, nonpublic information that, if traded upon, would constitute insider trading.
For instance, was the confidential information that Warren E. Buffett was investing $5 billion in Goldman Sachs during the depth of the financial crisis material to Goldman's stock price?
Prosecutors focused Mr. Blankfein on a Goldman board meeting on Sept. 23, 2008, when he informed the board of Mr. Buffett's investment just hours before it was publicly announced. The S.E.C. says that before the announcement, Mr. Gupta told Mr. Rajaratnam about the news and Mr. Rajaratnam then traded on the tip.
On cross-examination of Mr. Blankfein, Mr. Dowd raised doubts about the significance of the Buffett news on Goldman's stock.
He said that around that same time Congress was expected to pass the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, which would shore up the banks and lift their flagging stock prices.
Mr. Dowd suggested during his opening statement that the prospect of TARP's passage was the reason that Galleon would have purchased Goldman stock at that time - not because of any supposed tip from Mr. Gupta.
Prosecutors then had Mr. Blankfein explain that TARP had not passed before Goldman made its deal with Mr. Buffett. Had it, Mr. Blankfein said, Goldman would probably not have taken money from Mr. Buffett, who extracted an expensive 10 percent dividend payment from Goldman for his investment. ''The government didn't charge nearly as much as Warren Buffett did,'' Mr. Blankfein said, eliciting laughter from the courtroom.
Watching Mr. Blankfein testify would have had particular poignancy for Mr. Rajaratnam, say two former associates of Mr. Rajaratnam who spoke only on the condition of anonymity. Of all the investment banks, Mr. Rajaratnam held Goldman in the highest regard, these people said.
Mr. Rajaratnam's hedge fund, the Galleon Group, hired away numerous executives from Goldman. Mr. Rajaratnam would tell his colleagues that he was just a lowly guy from Needham - the middling brokerage firm where he earned his stripes - and wanted to work with ''Goldman guys'' who had the ''best practices'' ingrained in them.
At least nine Goldman analysts and traders left the bank and later worked at Galleon, including Rick Sherlund and Rick Schutte, both top-ranked technology industry analysts.
Galleon used Goldman as one of its primary so-called prime brokers, holding the fund's assets at the bank and extending margin loans to the fund. It also paid Goldman tens of millions of dollars annually to execute its stock trades.
Mr. Blankfein said that he once visited New York-based Galleon, ''a long time ago'' before he became chief executive.
Mr. Blankfein's appearance drew a team of lawyers from Goldman and Sullivan & Cromwell, the bank's outside law firm. They scrunched into the front row of the spectators' gallery next to a mother-and-daughter team of courtroom sketch artists. Gregory Palm, Goldman's top lawyer, at times appeared more focused on the chalk drawings of Mr. Blankfein than he was on his boss's testimony
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Photographers, hoping to find Lloyd Blankfein, peered into a car exiting the garage at federal court during the Rajaratnam trial. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) DRAWING: Lloyd Blankfein, rear, and Raj Rajaratnam, front, in a courtroom sketch. (DRAWING BY JANE ROSENBERG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ARRESTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LAWYERS (74%); JURY DUTY (73%); SCANDALS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (92%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011



557 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1194 words

PERSON: Leonard Weinglass 

HEADLINE: Leonard Weinglass, Courtroom Defender Of Radicals and Renegades, Dies at 77

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Leonard I. Weinglass, perhaps the nation's pre-eminent progressive defense lawyer, who represented political renegades, government opponents and notorious criminal defendants in a half century of controversial cases, including the Chicago Seven, the Pentagon Papers and the Hearst kidnapping, died on Wednesday. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan.
The cause of death, at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, was pancreatic cancer, said Debbie Smith, a friend.
Mr. Weinglass was working as a lawyer in racially torn Newark in the late 1960s when he met Tom Hayden, a founder of the activist group Students for a Democratic Society, who was working there as well. 
In 1968, when Mr. Hayden was indicted, along with seven others -- the case was initially known as the Chicago Eight-- for conspiring to incite a riot during the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, he reached out to Mr. Weinglass, who joined William M. Kunstler on the defense team in what turned out to be one of the most raucous trials in American history.
The defendants included Jerry Rubin and Abbie Hoffman, the leaders of the radically counter-cultural Youth International Party (a k a the Yippies), and the mutual disdain between them and Judge Julius J. Hoffman, who presided over the case, became a key element in their lawyers' ability to paint the charges as politically motivated. At one point, Abbie Hoffman referred to the judge as his ''illegitimate father'' and renounced his last name. After he took the witness stand, Mr. Weinglass began the questioning by asking his name.
''My name is Abbie,'' Mr. Hoffman said. ''I'm an orphan of America.''
Five of the defendants were found guilty in the case, but the verdicts were reversed on appeal, and Judge Hoffman, who had ordered one defendant, Bobby Seale of the Black Panthers, shackled and gagged in court, was upbraided in the appeals court ruling for his ''deprecatory and often antagonistic attitude toward the defense.''
Mr. Seale's case was later severed from that of the other seven.
Mr. Hayden, who roomed with Mr. Weinglass during the trial, said in an interview Thursday that the legal spectacle was ''a morality play for all of the issues of the '60s.'' Of Mr. Weinglass, he added, ''I would say he was the best courtroom lawyer I've known in my lifetime, and I've known a lot of them.''
Mr. Weinglass said after the trial that the court, obviously biased in his view, had shaken his faith in the law and, along with other events -- the Kent State shootings, the invasion of Cambodia -- had helped to radicalize him. By 1972, he had moved to Los Angeles and was defending Daniel Ellsberg, a military analyst with the RAND Corporation. Disaffected with the Vietnam War, Mr. Ellsberg had, with the help of a colleague, Anthony Russo, copied the secret documents about the government's conduct of the war that became known as the Pentagon Papers and eventually shared them with a reporter for The New York Times, which published them. The case against Mr. Ellsberg and Mr. Russo was eventually dismissed because of misconduct by the government in trying to gather evidence against them.
Mr. Weinglass defended Bill and Emily Harris, the founders of the radical group known as the Symbionese Liberation Army, for the 1974 kidnapping of the newspaper heiress Patricia Hearst, who eventually joined her kidnappers and helped them rob a bank, a crime for which she served two years in prison before her sentence was commuted by President Jimmy Carter. The Harrises were convicted of the kidnapping and served eight years in jail.
In another notorious case, Mr. Weinglass, who had worked with the lawyer Leonard Boudin on the Pentagon Papers defense, defended Mr. Boudin's daughter Kathy Boudin, who, as a member of the radical Weather Underground, had taken part in the robbery of a Brink's security truck in 1981 in which two police officers and a Brink's guard were killed. Ms. Boudin, who did not fire a gun during the robbery but was a passenger in a getaway van, eventually pleaded guilty to murder and robbery charges and served 22 years in prison. She was released on parole in 2006.
''Lenny was the best lawyer I've ever seen picking a jury and cross-examining witnesses,'' said Martin Garbus, who was Mr. Weinglass's co-counsel on the Kathy Boudin trial. ''He was soft, he was gentle, he was not bombastic. You believed he was a man of dignity and honesty.''
Leonard Irving Weinglass was born in Belleville, N.J, on Aug. 27, 1933, and grew up in Kearny; he was a high school debater and an end on the football team. His father, Sol, was a pharmacist. He graduated from George Washington University and Yale Law school and was a lawyer for the Air Force before beginning his practice in Newark.
Mr. Weinglass was married once, late in life, and divorced. He is survived by two sisters, Elaine Nicastro, of Lebanon, N.J., and Natalie Franzblau, of Nutley, N.J., and a brother, Steven Weinglass, of Los Angeles.
Over the past 40 years, he represented many other prominent clients, including Angela Davis, the activist and educator who was acquitted of murder, conspiracy and kidnapping charges in the 1970 killing of a California judge, and Amy Carter, the daughter of President Carter, who along with others, including Abbie Hoffman, was arrested during a 1986 protest against the activities of the Central Intelligence Agency at the University of Massachusetts. She was acquitted of trespassing and disorderly conduct charges.
More recently, Mr. Weinglass was involved in the death-row appeals of Mumia Abu-Jamal, whose conviction in the 1981 killing of a Philadelphia police officer has been shrouded in allegations of racism, police corruption and judicial bias; and the Cuban 5, who were convicted in 2001 of conspiracy to commit espionage against the United States but who say they were monitoring Miami-based terrorist groups that target Cuba.
''He filed a brief on March 5 in that case, a post-conviction motion to vacate the conviction of his client,'' said Michael Krinsky of the New York law firm Rabinowitz, Boudin, Standard, Krinsky & Lieberman, for whom Mr. Weinglass had worked since 1985. Mr. Krinsky, who called Mr. Weinglass ''our era's Clarence Darrow,'' met him in 1969, in Newark.
''That was a rough place to be,'' he said. ''A police department and a city administration that was racist and as terrifying as any in America, and there was Lenny representing civil rights people, political people, ordinary people who got charged with stuff and got beat up by the cops. He did it without fame or fortune, and that's what he kept doing, in one way or another.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 24, 2011; March 26, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version included a summary that incorrectly stated that Mr. Weinglass defended Patty Hearst.
An obituary on Friday about Leonard Weinglass, a lawyer who represented the Chicago Seven and other political renegades, misstated a charge for which the Cuban 5, his clients, were convicted. It was conspiracy to commit espionage against the United States; they were not convicted of espionage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Leonard Weinglass, left, and William Kunstler, defense lawyers in the raucous Chicago Seven case, speaking after the verdict. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY SETTLE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); LAWYERS (90%); VERDICTS (89%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); WITNESSES (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); HISTORY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (72%); ORPHANS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (70%); APPEALS COURTS (67%); APPEALS (67%); INTERVIEWS (60%); CANCER (56%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (56%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (53%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011



558 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: A Radical Kind of Reactor

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
SHIDAO, China -- While engineers at Japan's stricken nuclear power plant struggle to keep its uranium fuel rods from melting down, engineers in China are building a radically different type of reactor that some experts say offers a safer nuclear alternative.
The technology will be used in two reactors here on a peninsula jutting into the Yellow Sea, where the Chinese government is expected to let construction proceed even as the world debates the wisdom of nuclear power.
Rather than using conventional fuel rod assemblies of the sort leaking radiation in Japan, each packed with nearly 400 pounds of uranium, the Chinese reactors will use hundreds of thousands of billiard-ball-size fuel elements, each cloaked in its own protective layer of graphite.
The coating moderates the pace of nuclear reactions and is meant to ensure that if the plant had to be shut down in an emergency, the reaction would slowly stop on its own and not lead to a meltdown. 
The reactors will also be cooled by nonexplosive helium gas instead of depending on a steady source of water -- a critical problem with the damaged reactors at Japan's Fukushima Daiichi power plant. And unlike those reactors, the Chinese reactors are designed to gradually dissipate heat on their own, even if coolant is lost.
If the new plants here prove viable, China plans to build dozens more of them in coming years.
The technology under construction here, known as a pebble-bed reactor, is not new. Germany, South Africa and the United States have all experimented with it, before abandoning it over technical problems or a lack of financing.
But as in many other areas of alternative energy, including solar panels and wind turbines, China is now taking the lead in actually building the next-generation technology. The government has paid for all of the research and development costs for the two pebble-bed reactors being built here, and will cover 30 percent of the construction costs.
Despite Japan's crisis, China still plans to build as many as 50 nuclear reactors over the next five years -- more than the rest of the world combined. Most of this next wave will be of more conventional designs.
But if the pebble-bed approach works as advertised, and proves cost effective, China hopes it can eventually adopt the technology on a broad scale to make nuclear power safer and more feasible as it deals with the world's fastest growing economy and the material expectations of its 1.3 billion people.
Western environmentalists are divided on the safety of pebble-bed nuclear technology.
Thomas B. Cochran, the senior scientist on nuclear power for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an American group, said that such reactors would probably be less dangerous than current nuclear plants, and might be better for the environment than coal-fired plants.
''Over all, in terms of design,'' he said, ''it would appear to be safer, with the following caveat: the safety of any nuclear plant is not just a function of the design but also of the safety culture of the plant.''
The executives overseeing construction of the new Chinese reactors say that engineers are already being trained to oversee the extensively computerized controls for the plant, using a simulator at a test reactor that has been operating for a decade near Beijing, apparently without mishap.
But Greenpeace, the international environmentalist group, opposes pebble-bed nuclear reactors, questioning whether any nuclear technology can be truly safe. Wrapping the uranium fuel in graphite greatly increases the volume of radioactive waste eventually requiring disposal, said Heinz Smital, a Greenpeace nuclear technology specialist in Germany.
But he said the waste is far less radioactive per ton than spent uranium fuel rods -- one of the big sources of trouble at the Fukushima Daiichi plant.
China is building a repository for high-level nuclear waste, like conventional fuel rods, in the country's arid west. But the far less radioactive spheres, or pebbles, like those from the Shidao reactors will not require such specialized storage; China plans to store the used pebbles initially at the power plants, and later at lower-level radioactive waste disposal sites near the reactors.
Whatever fears the rest of the world may have about China's nuclear ambitions, the environmental cost-benefit analysis contains at least one potential positive: More nukes would let China reduce the heavy reliance on coal and other fossil fuels that now make it the world's biggest emitter of global-warming gases.
''China epitomizes the stark choices that we face globally in moving away from current forms of coal-based electricity,'' said Jonathan Sinton, the top China specialist at the International Energy Agency in Paris. ''Nuclear is an essential alternative'' to coal, he said. ''It's the only one that can provide the same quality of electricity at a similar scale in the medium and long term.''
Chinese leaders have been largely unwilling to engage in the global debate on climate change. But they have made a priority of reducing urban air pollution -- which kills thousands of people every year and is largely caused by burning coal -- and of improving mine safety. Coal mining accidents killed more than 2,400 people in China last year alone.
China's biggest electric company, the state-owned Huaneng Group, now aims to prove that the technology can work on a commercial scale by building the two pebble-bed reactors -- each capable of meeting the residential power needs of an American city of 75,000 to 100,000 people. The reactors are expected to go into operation in about four years.
The plants' foundations have already been laid, their steel reinforcing bars pointing skyward, on a desolate landscape dominated by thatch-roofed huts and last season's cornfields. Chinese safety regulations require that all nuclear plants be located at least 30 miles from the nearest city, in this case Rongcheng, which has a population of one million.
It was only three days after a tsunami swamped Japan's Fukushima Daiichi plant that China's legislature approved its five-year plan calling for dozens of new nuclear reactors. As the severity of that crisis became evident, Beijing said it would ''temporarily suspend'' the approval of new nuclear reactors, but would allow construction to proceed at more than two dozen other nuclear projects already under way.
By coincidence, China's cabinet and its national energy bureau had both given final approval for the pebble-bed reactors here in Shidao in the two weeks before the earthquake, said Xu Yuanhui, the father of China's pebble-bed nuclear program.
China's nuclear safety agency has met since the Japanese earthquake and reviewed the Shidao's project plans and site preparation, and has indicated it will be the next project to receive safety clearance.
''The conclusion is clear that it is all ready to start to pour concrete,'' said Dr. Xu, a former Tsinghua University professor who is now the vice general manager of Chinergy, the contractor building the reactors here.
Germany led the initial research into pebble-bed nuclear reactors and built its own research version in the 1960s. That reactor closed after an accident, caused by a jammed fuel pebble that released traces of radiation -- coincidentally nine days after the Chernobyl accident in 1986, at a time of greatly increased worry about nuclear safety. Dr. Xu said that China, learning from the German mishap, had designed its reactors to keep the pebbles from jamming.
South Africa tried hard until last summer to build a pebble-bed reactor but ran into serious cost overruns.
In the United States, the federal government and companies have spent heavily on pebble-bed research. But there has been little appetite for actually building new nuclear reactors -- of any sort -- since the Three Mile Island accident in 1979.
''The Chinese had a determination to build, to show the technology to work, and a commitment to get it done,'' said Andrew Kadak, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology nuclear engineer specializing in pebble-bed reactors. ''In the U.S. we didn't have, and still don't have, the commitment.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A map on Friday with an article about a new type of nuclear power plant under construction in Shidao, China, gave the wrong location for the nearest big city, Rongcheng. It is about 25 miles north of Shidao, not near Beijing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Xu Yuanhui of Chinergy with one of the ''pebbles,'' or fuel elements, that power the reactor. (B1)
Engineers have been trained on a test pebble-bed reactor that has been operating as a demonstration project for a decade.
Students viewing an experimental reactor project built at Tsinghua University, north of Beijing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) GRAPHICS: A Vision of Greater Safety: Rather than using fuel rods encased in water as in most reactors, pebble-bed reactors use billiard ball-size fuel spheres known as pebbles. Amassing these pebbles inside the reactor creates nuclear fission, which heats a gas. The gas in turn heats water into steam, driving a turbine. The reactor core consists of 420,000 of these fuel spheres, and every 15 seconds one is removed and replaced by another one. (Sources: Chinergy
Institute of Nuclear and New Energy Technology at Tsinghua University
Arizona State University) (GRAPHICS BY FRANK O'CONNELL/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 MAP (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); WIND POWER PLANTS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) CHINA (98%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



559 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: In Defense of Federal Money for Public Radio

 BODY:
To the Editor:
We applaud your March 17 editorial ''Punishment for NPR'' for highlighting the serious impact that H.R. 1076, the bill passed by the House of Representatives, would have on communities across America by prohibiting local stations from using federal funds to purchase radio programs. If the bill is enacted, the consequences would be frightening. 
A key point in the bill that the editorial did not address is the elimination of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting's Program Fund. Over the years, this fund has provided critical seed money for many of public radio's most innovative and inclusive programming, including ''This American Life,'' ''Car Talk,'' ''Radiolab,'' ''On the Media,'' ''The Tavis Smiley Show'' and ''Wait, Wait ... Don't Tell Me!''
At risk are Radio Bilingue's national program service, public radio's principal source of Latino programming; StoryCorps, which brings recording booths around the country to record the oral history of everyday Americans; and ''The Takeaway,'' a morning news program committed to reflecting diverse voices.
Many projects fueled by the fund have gone on to attract large audiences and represent the best in American journalism and programming. But perhaps more notably, public radio producers have a demonstrated track record of success in using this modest investment of public funds to leverage millions of dollars from other sources.
This bill punishes NPR, yes, but more than that, it punishes stations and the listeners they serve, and squashes innovation and creativity. The CPB Program Fund and the exciting programming it has helped fuel must be preserved.
Laura Walker Herb Scannell New York, March 18, 2011
The writers are, respectively, chief executive and president of New York Public Radio and chairman of its board of trustees.
To the Editor:
Re ''Gains for NPR Are Clouded,'' by David Carr (The Media Equation column, Business Day, March 14):
Is it really ''hard to argue that providing money for a news and information service is at the core of what government should be doing''? In fact, as a recent study I co-authored shows (''Public Media and Political Independence''), the United States is virtually alone among leading democracies in not making a substantial investment in public radio and television.
The United States' per capita public investment (including federal, state and local taxes) of $4 compares with a range of $30 to $130 in the 14 democratic nations we examined.
And setting aside the self-interested perspective of some commercial news executives, there is no groundswell of support to cut funding for public media in Europe. Quite the contrary.
Citizens in other democracies understand what Mr. Carr ends up conceding in his analysis of National Public Radio: In these economic hard times, public media are increasingly the only media providing the kind of serious, in-depth journalism that democracy needs.
Rodney Benson New York, March 16, 2011
The writer is a professor of media, culture and communication at New York University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC RADIO (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); HISTORY (71%); EXECUTIVES (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%)

COMPANY: CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



560 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Inflated Worries

BYLINE: By LAURENCE H. MEYER. 
Laurence H. Meyer, an economic consultant, was a governor of the Federal Reserve from 1996 to 2002.

 BODY:
Washington
ANY American who has shopped for groceries or pumped gasoline in the last few months knows that prices for food and energy have been soaring. Demand from fast-growing Asian economies is one major contributor to price increases; the turmoil in the Middle East is another.
All of this has made some economists and lawmakers in the United States nervous. They fear that higher prices for commodities will translate into higher prices for all goods and services and that the Federal Reserve, by ignoring commodity prices, has become lax on inflation. 
While the anxiety is understandable, the fears are misplaced. They result from a profound misunderstanding about whether food and energy prices today help predict overall inflation tomorrow.
There are two fundamental measures of inflation: overall (or ''headline'') inflation and ''core'' inflation, which excludes food and energy prices because they are very volatile and mostly transitory and as a result don't necessarily reflect underlying inflation trends. A central objective of the Fed's monetary policy is price stability, defined as a low, steady rate of overall inflation. So are rising food and gas prices a sign that the Fed is falling down on the job?
The answer is no. There is very little that the Fed can do to control today's inflation, whether core or headline. What the Fed does influence is inflation a year or two down the road, which is why it needs to look to the future, not overreact to the present.
The most significant question for the Fed, then, is whether overall or core inflation right now is a more reliable gauge of where headline inflation will be next year. And the data unequivocally tell us that core inflation better predicts overall inflation tomorrow.
Given that core inflation is close to 1 percent, overall inflation next year will likely also end up at about 1 percent, well below the Fed's almost explicit objective of 2 percent.
But wait a moment, the Fed's critics say. They like to point out that the data haven't always told the same story about the link between underlying and overall inflation.
For instance, during the 1970s and early 1980s, an era of debilitating inflation, the markets had no confidence in the Fed's ability to keep prices stable. This meant that any increase in prices, including those for volatile items like food and energy, were almost immediately and fully translated into expectations of higher overall inflation in the future. Those expectations, in turn, gave rise to actual increases in other prices, not just food and energy. (If workers expect that inflation will be 2 percent in the coming year, they will demand a wage increase that is 2 percentage points higher than they otherwise would to keep improving their standard of living.)
So in the '70s, increases in food and gas prices affected both core and overall inflation. Some believe this is still the case today. But it isn't.
Since the inflationary era ended in the early '80s, the Fed has earned a reputation for keeping inflation in check. For more than a decade, the markets have operated under the assumption that in the long term inflation will be stable. This means that spikes in food and energy prices do not get translated into expectations of higher inflation down the road and thus do not lead to a general increase in prices, today or tomorrow. In light of the evidence, the Fed is right to pay more attention to core inflation than to overall inflation when making decisions about interest rates.
Critics who want the Fed to raise rates immediately in response to rising food and energy prices also tend to be skeptics of the Fed's decision last year to pump $600 billion into the economy by purchasing Treasury securities -- even though, in my view, the two phenomena are entirely separate.
The skeptics point out that the Fed's purchases, which were intended to lower unemployment by making borrowing cheaper and thus encouraging businesses to hire, ''monetize'' the nation's debt, meaning that the Fed is essentially printing money to finance the government. That in turn is said to increase the risk of substantially higher inflation expectations and, eventually, overall inflation.
The Fed, this argument goes, just won't be able to act quickly enough to turn off the spigot when the time comes to do so.
But the Fed can raise interest rates directly any time it wants. In addition, it could start to sell the huge volume of Treasury securities and other financial assets on its books, which would also place upward pressure on rates.
Would the Fed act in time? I expect that it will. And even if it doesn't act in time, and inflation expectations start to get out of line, I am confident that the Fed would tighten monetary policy quickly and aggressively enough to restore price stability and maintain its credibility on inflation. You can take that to the bank.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY JOEL HOLLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INFLATION (91%); FOOD PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); TRENDS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); STATISTICS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



561 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: A Business Tax Charged When Employees Cash In Stock Options Is Scrutinized

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH. 
gshih@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
A rare provision in San Francisco's business tax code that taxes companies when employees cash in their stock options has caused a stir in this hotbed of fledgling tech companies. 
Remarkably, few companies even knew about the tax, which has been in effect for seven years. But since city officials offered Twitter a payroll-tax break as an incentive for it to remain in San Francisco (the company is considered likely to go public soon), the stock-option provision has suddenly come under intense scrutiny.
A number of other booming companies, including Zynga, the maker of online games and one of the city's fastest-growing firms, have threatened to leave the city unless they receive similar payroll-tax exemptions before going public.
Unlike most cities, San Francisco generates most of its business tax revenue through a payroll tax.
The Twitter exemption bill, which will be considered by the full Board of Supervisors on April 5, would freeze payroll taxes for six years along a strip of Market Street -- where Twitter is set to relocate -- and several square blocks in the Tenderloin neighborhood.
Twitter executives had been concerned because since 2004 the city's payroll tax code has counted stock options granted to employees as compensation, which is taxed at 1.5 percent.
If Twitter goes public in San Francisco and a large number of workers exercise their options, the city would tax the company on its employees' stock gains -- a bill likely to amount to tens of millions of dollars.
''Twitter could be looking at a significantly larger payroll tax liability if and when it goes public,'' said Ted Egan, the chief economist in San Francisco's controller's office.
Because of the dearth of I.P.O.'s inside the city limits in the last decade, the stock-option tax has gone under radar until now. Businesses, city officials and even seasoned tax lawyers are confounded.
''Nobody ever talked about this because nobody's really tested these issues before,'' said Thomas H. Steele, a partner in Morrison & Foerster's San Francisco office, specializing in state and local tax. He said that his clients began calling him this week to ask about the tax's ramifications.
''A Pandora's box has already been opened,'' said Supervisor Ross Mirkarimi, a member of the Board of Supervisors' budget and finance committee, who has expressed concern about tailoring legislation for one company. ''We've been going about this the wrong way,'' he said.
The recent confusion has added impetus to calls for comprehensive business tax reform by David Chiu, the board president. ''The stock option problem is real,'' Mr. Chiu said. ''We have to address it in a fair and responsible way.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OPTIONS (91%); CORPORATE TAX (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); CITIES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); RELOCATIONS (67%)

COMPANY: MORRISON & FOERSTER LLP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



562 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Race, Poverty and the Public Schools

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Separate and Unequal,'' by Bob Herbert (column, March 22):
In spite of the 1954 Brown v. Board of Education decision by the Supreme Court, sadly the struggle goes on. The Department of Education reported in 2008 that 70 percent of white schoolchildren attend schools where at least 75 percent of the students are white, whereas more than half of all black children in industrial states attend schools where over 90 percent are members of minority groups. Go into any urban school and it is clear that 57 years after Brown, the schools have largely remained segregated. 
Years of social science research have cited the benefits of integrated schools. In our work with the West Metro Education desegregation initiative in Minneapolis public schools, the students in grades 3 to 7 who got on the bus to attend suburban schools made three times the progress in both reading and math when compared with similar students who did not participate.
Teacher quality remains a consistent important factor. Ultimately, though, students in diverse classrooms benefit from collaboration and teamwork with those whose family circumstances are different from theirs.
Eric J. Cooper President, National Urban Alliance for Effective Education Stamford, Conn., March 22, 2011
To the Editor:
Bob Herbert rightly identifies income apartheid in American public education. We hear over and over that incompetent teachers cause students to fail. But wasn't it economic disparity that caused Davis Guggenheim (''Waiting for Superman'') to pass by three public schools while driving his children to their private school?
If those private school teachers were moved to the public school, the students staying the same, would he have his children follow their teachers? I doubt it. Economic disparity trumps teacher ability. This rationalization of school choice repeats over and over again across America.
Barbara Coleman Minneapolis, March 22, 2011
The writer is a retired teacher.
To the Editor:
Bob Herbert's comments in ''Separate and Unequal'' are on target. A suburban elementary teacher can expect to work with 3 to 5 high-needs students in a classroom of 20 to 25 children. This teacher must work hard to provide the extra encouragement, tutoring and follow-up these high-needs students require while keeping the rest of the class functioning smoothly.
A similarly skilled teacher in a high-poverty urban neighborhood will be overwhelmed with 15 to 20 high-needs students in a larger class of 25-plus children. This urban teacher's day involves trying to juggle the one-on-one attention needs of too many at-risk children while trying to teach all the children the skills required for academic success. This explains why so many effective urban teachers burn out and head to the suburbs as soon as they can.
Our present economic problems present a possible solution. Many successful suburban schools are struggling financially to maintain programs and staff. Some of these schools might now be willing to accept needy urban students on a negotiated tuition basis. This option makes more sense for urban districts than paying high tuition rates to hit-or-miss charter schools and could reduce the burden on urban schools.
Lonnie Palmer Latham, N.Y., March 22, 2011
The writer is a former superintendent of schools in Albany and Troy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SUBURBS (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (84%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); WRITERS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); CITY LIFE (70%); SCHOOL CHOICE (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



563 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Let Them Eat Cutbacks

 BODY:
Food stamps are part of the social safety net, but they work more as the ultimate ground-level crutch for Americans staggering against poverty. During the recession, food stamps were an important factor in helping an estimated 4.5 million Americans stave off the official poverty (no more than $21,756 annually for a family of four) that engulfed nearly 16 percent of the nation. The stamps are win-win: $9 in fast economic stimulus for every $5 spent on food for a hungry family. 
Sad wonder, then, that cuts in food stamps are the latest proposal heading for the House Republicans' budgetary chopping block. An attempt to set them back at the levels of 2007 -- and cost a family of four $59 out of their $294 monthly allotment -- is part of welfare ''reform'' legislation being proposed by leaders of the powerful Republican Study Committee. This group, embraced by two-thirds of the House majority, is the conservative engine driving much of the deficit-slashing mania to extremes.
Even last year, when the Democrats controlled the House, the political vulnerability of food stamps was clear as sleazy budget deals were attempted to tap the program to protect farm subsidies and other power blocks. Now the threat is worse as Republicans wildly estimate that they could save $1.4 trillion across a decade in cutting the full array of welfare programs -- yet still help down-and-out families.
Vicious politics is already in the mix, including a surly provision to deny food stamps to any family that includes a worker on strike.
Surely hard times should find public servants protecting the neediest first, not targeting them for crumbs from a program more vital to society than another tired round of antiwelfare politicking.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FAMILY (89%); POLITICS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); STRIKES (63%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



564 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: To Build an Arsenal, Activist Investors Turn to Social Media

BYLINE: By RHEA WESSEL

 BODY:
Social media has proved to be a powerful tool for a wide range of constituencies, including revolutionaries in the Middle East and corporations in the Midwest. But hedge funds and other investors have yet to really embrace sites like Twitter and Facebook as they rally support for their causes.
That could soon change.
Activist investors are testing online technologies to reach out to small shareholders, find potential allies and coordinate proxy votes.
While it remains to be seen whether such efforts will ever reach a critical mass, Wall Street stalwarts are starting to pay attention. At an industry conference in Berlin this month, David Rubenstein, a co-founder of the private equity giant Carlyle Group, predicted shareholder activism would move to the Web. 
''Let's suppose somebody wants to buy a company and has to get shareholder approval,'' Mr. Rubenstein said. ''Employees and shareholders could use Facebook to rally support against an acquisition.''
The Internet is a natural vehicle for investors. In the early days of the dot-com boom, individuals and day traders used message boards to exchange stock tips. In a way, it was a forerunner of today's social media efforts. Although sites like the Motley Fool still exist, they remain mainly a forum for sharing investment ideas rather than a gathering place for activists.
Investors have also used the Web for one-off campaigns over the years. In 2007, Eric Jackson, a private investor, posted videos on YouTube and set up a blog to detail what he saw as flaws in Yahoo's business strategy. He soon got the attention of the Internet company's small shareholders, a group that collectively held some 2.6 million shares. With that base, he took his concerns to larger institutions, mobilizing an effort that helped bring down Yahoo's chief executive, Terry Semel.
''You need to make a case that is going to resonate with large shareholders,'' Mr. Jackson said. Otherwise ''it becomes nothing more than a group of people from Yahoo Finance complaining about the company.''
Today, more established players are turning to the Web, even if their activity remains on the fringe. Carl C. Icahn set up a scathing Web site to drum up support in his proxy battle against Lionsgate, a movie studio. The site detailed how shareholders could help ''save'' the studio by approving his deal, which eventually failed. Elliott Advisors is taking to the Web to urge small investors of the Swiss biotech company Actelion to register their shares to vote and support Elliott's slate of directors.
Academics and industry experts see a growing place for the Internet and social media in the activist's arsenal, much as companies rely on Twitter or Facebook to get feedback or test new ideas. Gap, for example, decided not to change its logo after consumers on various social media platforms began to label the move a branding failure.
''It has the potential to move groups of shareholders from passive administrators to active participants,'' said Marcus Birkenkrahe, a professor of business information technology at the Berlin School of Economics and Law. ''The financial industry in particular ought to be wary of social media as a means of creating assemblies where people learn to articulate, sell and distribute their adverse views.''
A number of online firms are popping up to help facilitate the process. Moxyvote.com, a two-year-old site that estimates it has thousands of users, is trying to make it easier for small investors to vote their shares. ''MoxyVote was designed to get the little guys together,'' said Mark Schlegel, a co-founder of the company. ''We're a proxy adviser for the individual. We're crowd-sourcing opinions.''
Investors at MoxyVote can vote on corporate issues independently or as part of a broader group. For example, As You Sow, a nonprofit focused on environmental and human rights issues, is using the site to get shareholders to vote in favor of its resolution calling for a study at the Coca-Cola Company about the effects of a certain chemicals on its aluminum cans. The beverage maker is set to vote on the issue at its annual meeting in April.
''It's just like writing a letter to your congressman,'' said Andrew Behar, the chief executive of As You Sow.
MoxyVote claims at least one big success. Small shareholders in On2 Technologies, a technology developer, banded together on the site to block a takeover bid by Google. Collectively, the group of investors accounted for roughly 20 million shares, or about 11 percent of the outstanding shares. They cast a no vote, helping to spur Google to sweeten its offer by nearly 25 percent to roughly $133 million. Google acquired On2 last year.
Still, Internet activism isn't without its critics. Some assert that short-sellers and others can hide behind the Web to inflict unwarranted harm on a company's stock price. That's what the chief executive of China MediaExpress Holdings claimed after research firms, including Muddy Waters - an upstart research outfit that also makes bets against stocks - published a report online in February that questioned the accounting of the company. The report was discussed on Twitter, and Muddy Waters Research posted videos about the company on YouTube. Shares of China MediaExpress dropped more than 33 percent the day the report was published.
''The manner in which the short-sellers seem to have timed and coordinated their efforts plays into their ultimate strategy,'' the chief executive of China MediaExpress wrote in a letter to shareholders on Feb. 7. ''By using the anonymity of the Internet and publicizing as many unfounded allegations as they can craft, they can make it look as if there is a ground swell of criticism against the company when in reality all the claims emerge from a small group of self-interested parties.''
The founder of Muddy Waters, Carson Block, makes no effort to hide his bets against China MediaExpress and other companies on which he blogs or posts online reports - and he says he provides a useful service by exposing what he considers dubious corporate practices.
In mid-March, the chief financial officer of China MediaExpress resigned. And the independent auditor, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, said an investigation would be necessary to find out whether prior financial statements were reliable.
Despite such controversy, experts say the emergence of social media and other online grass-roots efforts is a development that cannot be ignored.
''If I was a senior executive in a major corporation, I would have this on my radar screen of things to keep an eye on,'' said Andrew Stephen, a professor of social media strategy at Insead, the business school in Paris.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Schlegel of MoxyVote, a two-year-old Web site that helps small shareholders vote on corporate issues. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (90%); YAHOO! INC (85%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (90%); YHOO (NASDAQ) (85%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (85%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (85%)

PERSON: TERRY SEMEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) MIDWEST USA (73%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); MIDDLE EAST (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



565 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: The Message Of Labor, Proclaimed Through Song

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The singers sounded good to Jana Ballard, but they needed a bit more -- how to put it? -- oomph. ''You're just a little on the flat side,'' she said. No one argued. Though half the age of some in the room, she was the boss.
Ms. Ballard, 36, is the musical director of the New York City Labor Chorus, founded 20 years ago by workers who saw merit in singing not for their own supper but, rather, for the benefit of their often-troubled unions. About 60 of the chorus's 75 members, most of them city employees who perform on their own time, rehearsed the other evening in a room at the headquarters of the United Federation of Teachers, on lower Broadway. 
One song was in Spanish, ''El Pueblo Unido Jamas Sera Vencido'' (''The People United Will Never Be Defeated''). Those words were what Ms. Ballard felt needed to be kicked up.
''When you say 'the people will never be defeated,' you're sounding a little defeated,'' she said to the sopranos and altos. She ran them through it again, then again. They sounded just fine.
Strong voices are indispensable, Ms. Ballard said later. ''In order to get your message out, you need to sound good,'' she said. ''That's going to make people listen to you even more.''
If ever public service unions needed to have their voices heard, it is now, when they find themselves demonized for much that ails America. Not that they are without fault. But to hear some people talk, you would think that it was workers, not bankers, who brought the country to the brink of economic catastrophe a couple of years ago.
For the New York chorus, this is a particularly busy season.
Friday is the 100th anniversary of a seminal moment in American labor history: the fire that killed 146 garment workers at the Triangle shirtwaist factory, most of them young women. The chorus has been a regular at Triangle commemorations, and Friday will be no different, with performances at the Greenwich Village site of the disaster and at a Cooper Union ceremony.
For the occasion, the singers rehearsed several numbers. One was ''Bread and Roses,'' which has roots in another event of the Triangle era, a 1912 textile strike led strongly by women in Lawrence, Mass. ''The rising of the women means the rising of us all,'' a lyric goes.
In a sense, preparations for the Friday anniversary were a prelude to a more unusual event. In mid-April, the chorus, with Washington's approval, will travel to Cuba for a week of performances and sightseeing. Hence the emphasis on a song like ''El Pueblo Unido.''
The group will land in Cuba on April 17, the 50th anniversary of the Bay of Pigs invasion, the American attempt to drive Fidel Castro from power that became a synonym for any botched effort. The date was not chosen deliberately. ''But it is an interesting coincidence,'' said Jeff Vogel, a board member of the chorus.
Some singers plan to attend Passover Seders in Havana on April 18 and 19. They asked their hosts if there was anything they wanted from New York. Yes, the leaders of one synagogue said: chocolate matzos. ''Just the thought of chocolate matzos in that heat,'' Bob Greenberg, the chorus's vice president, said with a shake of the head. ''I don't know what it's going to look like.''
Over the years, the group has performed in Sweden and in Wales. At home, it has taken part in celebrations of Paul Robeson and Pete Seeger.
''It started as a lark,'' said Barbara Bailey, the chorus's president and one of its founders. ''The thought was to use it as a tool at rallies, at meetings, whatever. The point is, we're trying to revive the labor movement, labor culture. What better way than with song?''
The group, in the main, is not young. Women outnumber men by four to one. A few more voices in the lower ranges wouldn't hurt. Nor would new songs to go with labor standards like ''Which Side Are You On'' and ''Rockin' Solidarity.''
As chorus members acknowledged, laments about scrubbing coal dust from miners' backs speak to few young people these days. The challenge, Ms. Ballard said, is to find songs that appeal to a younger audience without sacrificing a traditional ''message of unity and freedom.''
Still, there is life yet in a tried-and-true number like ''Union Maid,'' with its refrain, ''Oh, you can't scare me, I'm sticking to the union.'' In rehearsal, the chorus nailed it.
''Excellent,'' Ms. Ballard said. ''That's a good sound tonight.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of the New York City Labor Chorus rehearsing, from far left: Susan Zugaib, Patricia Logan, Tom Karlson and Denise Jones. The chorus was started 20 years ago. ''The point is,'' said Barbara Bailey, one of the founders, ''we're trying to revive the labor movement, labor culture. What better way than with song?'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); WOMEN (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); GARMENT WORKERS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); APPAREL MFG (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



566 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: New York City's Population Barely Rose in the Last Decade, the Census Finds

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
New York City's population reached a record high for a 10-year census of 8,175,133, according to the 2010 count released on Thursday, but fell far short of the official forecast.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg immediately challenged the bureau's finding, saying it shortchanged the city by as many as 225,000 people. He said it was ''inconceivable'' that Queens grew by only 1,343 people since 2000 and suggested that the profusion of apartments listed as vacant in places like Flushing and in a swath of southwest Brooklyn meant the census missed many hard-to-count immigrants.
The 2010 census did, however, confirm previous findings of housing segregation and benchmarks telegraphed earlier by the Census Bureau's annual American Community Survey: 
For the first time since the draft riots during the Civil War, the number of black New Yorkers has declined, by 5 percent since 2000. Non-Hispanic blacks now account for 23 percent of New Yorkers.
The number of Asians increased 32 percent, passing the one million mark. They now constitute 13 percent of the population.
The Hispanic population rose 8 percent and now makes up 29 percent of the total.
Non-Hispanic whites registered a 3 percent decline, or 31,649 (compared with a drop of nearly 362,000 in the 1990s) -- the smallest decrease in a half-century of white flight. They now constitute 33 percent of the population. Manhattan and Brooklyn accounted for the only counties in the country with a million or more people where the white share of the population rose.
The Bronx gained 52,000 people, second only to Suffolk among the state's counties.
City officials said Thursday that they had not decided whether to pursue a legal challenge to the census's findings as they did, unsuccessfully, in 1990.
If the 2010 official count is sustained, it would suggest that the aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, coupled with the impact of the nationwide economic collapse during the second half of the decade, produced much slower growth since 2000 than in the 1990s (a rate of 2.1 percent, compared with 9 percent) -- even as the recession and housing crisis prompted more New Yorkers to remain in the city rather than retire elsewhere or move to usual job magnets in the South and West.
City demographers offered a number of explanations for the low figure, ranging from the possibility that the 2000 census had overestimated the population to the likelihood that many tenants, especially immigrants, living in overcrowded and illegally divided apartments and basement cubicles were overlooked even after aggressive efforts by census takers, civic groups and city officials to find them.
While population growth is not always good, it is considered a byproduct of a robust economy. Fewer people also can mean less federal aid and political representation when Congressional and legislative districts are reapportioned.
Five years ago, city demographers persuaded the Census Bureau to raise its July 1, 2005, estimate to 8.2 million. And the 2009 American Community Survey had placed the population at 8,391,881.
''If you say to yourself it looks like an undercount of 2.6 to 2.8 percent, that's not out of line with what happened in 1990,'' said Joseph J. Salvo, the director of the population division at the city's Planning Department.
While the 2010 census counted about 166,000 more people than in 2000 (the biggest gain of any city after Fort Worth; Charlotte, N.C.; and San Antonio), Mr. Salvo said, the number of homes and apartments in the city swelled by 170,000.
''Immediately, you're suspicious,'' Mr. Salvo said.
According to the census, Queens registered a net loss in occupied housing since 2000 and a 59 percent increase in vacancies. Brooklyn recorded a 66 percent rise in vacancies.
In the eyes of the census, Mr. Salvo said, ''huge swaths of housing have essentially been depopulated.''
He added that in many cases, the neighborhoods where the census found high vacancy rates were not necessarily where new housing had been built, or where foreclosures had been rampant. ''They're in corridors of immigration,'' he said. ''These are areas that are transitioning to newer immigrants. When the bureau went out, they came up dry, could not interview people in those places and declared them vacant. Without regard to immigration status these are people who are afraid to come out.''
Andrew A. Beveridge, a demographer at Queens College of the City University of New York, said the lower population figure ''means that growth has declined substantially in New York City as it has in the rest of the country.'' (In Buffalo, the population declined by nearly 11 percent to 261,310 -- the lowest since 1890.)
Responding to Mr. Bloomberg's lament, Robert M. Groves, the Census Bureau director, said, ''This is the time when many mayors receive counts that disappoint.''
''The specific things that Mayor Bloomberg addresses,'' he added, ''we can't speak to yet.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: City Grew, but Less Than Expected: Over the last 10 years, New York housing expanded substantially. But the bust left many units vacant, and the city's population grew less than many had expected. (Sources: Census Bureau
Andrew A. Beveridge and Susan Weber, Social Explorer
 Martin M. Dilan, New York state senator) (GRAPHICS BY MATTHEW ERICSON AND FORD FESSENDEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); CITIES (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (79%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); COUNTIES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); TERRORISM (61%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



567 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Lessons for Albany on Malpractice Limits

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
ALBANY -- As New York lawmakers strive to complete the state budget by April 1, one of the most contentious battles involves whether to include a cap on medical malpractice payments that Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has proposed with the support of the state's hospital industry.
The measure would limit damages paid by doctors and hospitals for pain and suffering to $250,000, a ceiling that hospitals predict would reduce their insurance premiums by one-fourth and give them the savings necessary to blunt the pain of the sharp cuts in Medicaid spending that Mr. Cuomo has also proposed. 
But other states that have similar caps in place offer cautionary evidence about the big savings for health care providers that such limits are believed to produce.
In 1975, California lawmakers approved a $250,000 cap on so-called noneconomic damages in cases of medical mistakes, which has since become a model for similar proposals. At least 35 states now have at least some limits on malpractice damages.
The California law has also been the focus of long-running debate over who benefits from caps -- doctors or insurers -- and whether the measures inflict unintended negative consequences upon victims of medical errors, including plaintiffs' inability to find lawyers to take their cases.
In the early years after California enacted its cap, doctors did not see the cost of their insurance policies plummet. From 1976 to 1986, the total paid in premiums increased 176 percent, according to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. (Nationally, premiums rose 221 percent.)
''I don't think the doctors even believe that this saves them money,'' said Jamie Court, the president of Consumer Watchdog, a California group that lobbies for insurance reform. ''But what they know is this limits their legal accountability, and that's more important for them.''
Supporters of tort changes say the years of legal challenges against California's cap explain why insurers did not immediately reduce their rates. Over all, they say, states that have malpractice caps eventually see fewer claims, smaller average malpractice losses for doctors and, in turn, lower premiums.
California and three other states that had $250,000 caps in place in 1991 saw premiums increase 28 percent in the following decade, compared with a 48 percent increase in other states, according the Physician Insurers Association of America.
The trade association's president, Lawrence E. Smarr, said that capping noneconomic damages ''clearly does work'' in reducing costs.
''Because it is a competitive marketplace, rates will go down,'' Mr. Smarr said, ''both because the insurers can afford to lower their rates and because you'll have increased competition.''
Researchers have found that, generally speaking, limiting noneconomic damages in malpractice cases has the effect of slowing the rate of growth in premiums. But they have not found the huge savings that officials in New York are predicting.
A 2004 study by Kenneth E. Thorpe, a professor of health policy at Emory University found that caps had the effect of reducing premium rates on a per-physician basis by 13 percent, while a study published in 2005 found that limiting damages produced a 6 percent decrease in premium costs in the short term.
''Without question, it's not a game-changer,'' said an author of the 2005 study, W. Kip Viscusi, an economist at Vanderbilt University.
A committee appointed by Mr. Cuomo to find Medicaid cuts cited just one piece of cost-savings evidence: a 2004 report commissioned by a group of malpractice insurers that said a $250,000 cap would reduce malpractice costs for New York hospitals and doctors by 24 percent.
Kenneth E. Raske, the president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, said the savings would allow the state's hospitals to live within the rate reductions and across-the-board spending cap that the Medicaid committee also proposed.
''If you have limited resources,'' Mr. Raske said, ''you have to go at those factors that are driving costs up, and divert those resources into patient care for everybody.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DAMAGES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); TORT REFORM (89%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); TORTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (76%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (76%); HEALTH CARE (72%); LAWYERS (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (63%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS (54%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



568 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Many U.S. Blacks Moving to South, Reversing Trend

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and ROBERT GEBELOFF; Sabrina Tavernise reported from Washington, and Robert Gebeloff from New York. Robbie Brown contributed reporting from Atlanta.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The percentage of the nation's black population living in the South has hit its highest point in half a century, according to census data released Thursday, as younger and more educated black residents move out of declining cities in the Northeast and Midwest in search of better opportunities.
The share of black population growth that has occurred in the South over the past decade -- the highest since 1910, before the Great Migration of blacks to the North -- has upended some long-held assumptions.
Both Michigan and Illinois, whose cities have rich black cultural traditions, showed an overall loss of blacks for the first time, said William Frey, the chief demographer at the Brookings Institution. 
And Atlanta, for the first time, has replaced Chicago as the metro area with the largest number of African-Americans after New York. About 17 percent of blacks who moved to the South in the past decade left New York State, far more than from any other state, the census data show.
At the same time, blacks have begun leaving cities for more affluent suburbs in large numbers, much like generations of whites before them.
''The notion of the North and its cities as the promised land has been a powerful part of African-American life, culture and history, and now it all seems to be passing by,'' said Clement Price, a professor of history at Rutgers-Newark. ''The black urban experience has essentially lost its appeal with blacks in America.''
During the turbulent 1960s, black population growth ground to a halt in the South, and Southern states claimed less than 10 percent of the national increase then. The South has increasingly claimed a greater share of black population growth since -- about half the country's total in the 1970s, two-thirds in the 1990s and three-quarters in the decade that just ended.
The percentage of black Americans living in the South is still far lower than before the Great Migration in the earlier part of the last century, when 90 percent did. Today it is 57 percent, the highest since 1960.
''This is the decade of black flight,'' said Mr. Frey. ''It's a new age for African-Americans. It's long overdue, but it seems to be happening.''
The five counties with the largest black populations in 2000 -- Cook in Illinois, Los Angeles, Wayne in Michigan, Kings in New York and Philadelphia -- all lost black population in the last decade. Among the 25 counties with the biggest increase in black population, three-quarters are in the South.
The Rev. Ronald Peters, who moved last year from Pittsburgh to Atlanta, said it was refreshing to be part of a hopeful black middle class that was not weighed down by the stigmas and stereotypes of the past, as he felt it was in the urban Northeast.
''Too often, people turn on TV and all they see are black men in chains,'' said Mr. Peters, president of the Interdenominational Theological Center, a seminary in Atlanta. ''Atlanta is a clear example of a different type of ethos. The black community is not people who have lost their way.''
Increasingly blacks are moving to places with small black populations. Just 2 percent of the black population growth in the last decade occurred in counties that have traditionally been black population centers, while 20 percent has occurred in counties where only a tiny fraction of the population had been black.
Segregation declined during the decade. Among the nation's 100 largest metro areas, 92 showed segregation declines with most of the largest occurring in growing areas in the South and West, Mr. Frey said.
The South was the fastest growing region over all, up 14 percent from 2000. Its white population increased as well, though whites grew substantially in the West as well, something that was not the case for blacks. Growth of Asian and Hispanic populations -- which grew the fastest over all -- was widely distributed throughout the nation.
''The center of population has moved south in the most extreme way we've ever seen in history,'' said Robert Groves, director of the Census Bureau.
Northern blacks were a big part of Southern gains. There are now more than one million black residents of the South who were born in the Northeast, a tenfold increase since 1970.
Blacks who moved to the South were disproportionately young -- 40 percent were adults ages 21 to 40, compared with 29 percent of the nonmigrant black population. One in four newcomers had a four-year college degree, compared to one in six of the black adults who had already lived in the South.
Cicely Bland, 36, a publishing company owner who left her home in Jersey City in 2006 for Stockbridge, an Atlanta suburb, said life was better because it was more affordable. Her choice was as much about cultural affinity as it was job opportunities.
''The business and political opportunities are here,'' she said. ''You have a lot of African-Americans with a lot of influence, and they're in my immediate networks.''
Over all, the black population grew by 11 percent in large metropolitan counties, but by 15 percent in adjacent smaller counties in the metropolitan area, suggesting a strong movement of blacks to the suburbs. The top 10 fastest-growing areas were suburbs, census officials said.
Not everyone was well off. Katherine Curtis, assistant professor of sociology at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, who specializes in demography and inequality, said blacks who returned to the states where they were born tended to have a higher poverty rate than those who went to other Southern states. One reason could be that they moved back for family, not economic opportunity, she said.
The black population grew by 11 percent over the decade, faster than the 1 percent growth in the white population, but far behind the 43 percent growth in the Hispanic population, whose increase made up more than half of all population growth in the decade.
But there were declines among blacks under 18, down 2 percent for the decade. The population of white children was down 10 percent, with 46 states experiencing declines in the white youth population, Mr. Frey said. Children from minority groups are now about 46 percent of the total population under 18, compared with 53 percent for whites.
In Atlanta, Mr. Peters, who grew up in New Orleans, viewed the changes as a source of pride for Americans, saying the South had changed a lot in his lifetime.
''One of the things that I grew up with was looking forward to the day that there would be a New South,'' he said. ''This is it. The New South represents a more inclusive community, what we can become as a country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Rev. Ronald Peters, above, who moved last year from Pittsburgh to Atlanta, said the black middle class was more hopeful in the South than in the Northeast. Tuan N'Gai, left, and his partner, Erin Kelly, recently moved to the Atlanta area from Washington, D.C. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) MAPS: Southern Shift: The black population in the South grew faster than in the rest of the nation from 2000 to 2010. (Sources: Census Bureau
 Social Explorer) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); CENSUS (90%); TRENDS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); HISTORY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



569 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Caseworkers Are Dispirited Over Charges In Girl's Death

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY and MOSI SECRET; Reporting was contributed by Ann Farmer, Elissa Gootman, Rebecca White and Karen Zraick.

 BODY:
The faces looked commanding, soulful and, above all, streetwise, as they began staring out at New Yorkers three years ago from posters blanketing subway cars. The intent was to recruit top-flight talent to the city's beleaguered Administration of Children's Services after the death of 7-year-old Nixzmary Brown.
''Are you brave enough?'' asked the posters, which featured real caseworkers. ''Tough enough?'' ''Wise enough?'' 
Left out were the drawbacks: a starting salary of $42,000, a long history of burnout and, every few years, it seemed, a blast of negative attention when a child in the agency's care died of abuse.
Never before, however, had any caseworker been accused of contributing to a death. But that is what happened this week, when the Brooklyn district attorney announced the indictment of a former caseworker and a supervisor on charges of criminally negligent homicide in the death of a 4-year-old girl.
On Thursday, agency workers, officials and even some child welfare advocates expressed fears that the charges would make a tough job -- attracting smart, qualified people -- even tougher, and might even make things worse for vulnerable families too.
''I'm very unhappy about it; I feel it's unfair,'' said Susan Greene, a newly hired caseworker who works in Brooklyn. ''We do a lot of good work. It is a lot of work.'' Potential workers, she said worriedly, ''might not want to work for this agency.''
The agency is bracing for even more bad news. The mayor's proposed budget includes across-the-board cuts, and should it pass, the child protective services arm of the agency would lose $19 million, forcing staff cuts and burdening individual caseworkers with more work. In a budget hearing on Thursday, John B. Mattingly, commissioner of the agency, did his best to defend the budget, but acknowledged, ''I would say the budget cuts hurt us.''
Tensions were already high at the Administration for Children's Services after the death in September of the 4-year-old, Marchella Brett-Pierce, who had been repeatedly beaten and bound and who was 18 pounds when she died.
Her mother has been charged with murder, and on Wednesday, Charles J. Hynes, the Brooklyn district attorney, announced the indictments of the former caseworker, Damon Adams, and his former supervisor, Chereece Bell, on charges including criminally negligent homicide. Mr. Adams, who was also charged with falsifying records, was accused of lying about visits to Marchella's home that he had not made; Ms. Bell was accused of failing to monitor him properly. Both have resigned and pleaded not guilty.
Mr. Hynes also said he was convening a special grand jury to look at ''evidence of alleged systemic failures'' at the agency.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg defended Mr. Mattingly on Thursday, saying he had ''100 percent confidence'' in him.
The mayor made a point of not criticizing Mr. Hynes's decision to seek the indictments, saying, ''I'll just let the investigation play out.'' But he added: ''I think when anybody gets indicted or investigated or anything that has to do with a potential or an actual criminal charge, everybody thinks about it. It'd be irrational not to think about it.''
Marchella's death and the workers' indictments struck blows at the child welfare agency, which officials had scrambled to overhaul after a case that horrified the city in 2006: the death of Nixzmary Brown. Nixzmary had been bound to furniture with ropes and bungee cords and repeatedly beaten by her stepfather, but her plight went unheeded by child welfare workers.
The agency hired 600 more caseworkers, and though it has cut 200 positions and is likely to trim more, that brought the average caseload per worker down to 9 from 16.5. The agency also began an accountability program, modeled on the Police Department's CompStat program, called ChildStat: agency leaders meet regularly to review statistics and cases. Retired detectives were hired as consultants to train caseworkers on investigative techniques. The turnover rate among caseworkers dropped.
The public responded, too: reports of child abuse and neglect increased markedly after Nixzmary's death, and the agency found legitimacy in a greater percentage of claims.
Prompted by the recruitment drive, its beguiling posters and, most likely, the economy's crash, applications doubled from 2007 to 2008. Some 1,260 candidates remain on a waiting list, suggesting recruitment will not immediately be hurt. Still, according to Andrew White, director of the New School's Center for New York City Affairs, and editor of Child Welfare Watch, the indictments could impair such efforts. ''It highlights the worst things that can happen in child protection,'' he said.
Several legal experts said that in obtaining indictments of the former caseworker and his supervisor, Mr. Hynes may have overreached.
Martin Guggenheim, an expert in child welfare and a professor of law at New York University, said the charge of falsifying documents was sufficiently punitive and merited investigation of the agency. The homicide charges, he said, ''vastly overstates the wrong.''
Mr. Hynes's office declined to comment on Thursday. Still, not everyone felt the homicide charges went too far, or would necessarily bode ill for future recruitment. One caseworker, who insisted on anonymity because she was not authorized to speak to reporters, said the indictments had scared people in her office. But, she added: ''We were told we will get fired if we falsify documents. You cannot do that.''
Carole B. Shauffer, executive director of the Youth Law Center, a public interest legal advocacy organization based in San Francisco, said the indictments could send a message that the city had a high standard for child welfare work.
Meanwhile, union representatives said they planned to protest the charges outside Children's Services offices on Friday. Faye Moore, president of S.S.E.U. 371, the union that represents agency employees, said, ''What the Brooklyn D.A. has done is indicted our whole profession.''
''We have two people that have decided to make a career out of saving children being charged with criminally negligent homicide because of paperwork,'' she added.
There were also widespread fears that the homicide charges would hurt retention of caseworkers and result in more families being splintered. Several child welfare experts said caseworkers, newly nervous that an unintentional oversight could lead to a homicide charge, might grow more inclined to put children in foster care, even if it was not warranted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John B. Mattingly, commissioner of the Administration for Children's Services, at a City Council hearing on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD WELFARE (90%); HOMICIDE (89%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (89%); MANSLAUGHTER (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INDICTMENTS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); BUDGET CUTS (86%); MURDER (77%); CHILD ABUSE (77%); FAMILY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); GRAND JURY (73%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (68%); NEGLIGENCE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



570 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Russia to Test Nuclear Plants For Ability to Survive Quakes

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Russia, responding to the Japanese nuclear crisis, will perform a ''stress test'' on all its reactors to judge their ability to withstand earthquakes more powerful than the original design anticipated, the Russian state-owned nuclear power company Rosatom said on Thursday. 
Rosatom is willing to share the test results with the United States, said the company's director general, Sergey Kirienko, who met here with Energy Department officials.
The United States and Russia signed a nuclear cooperation agreement last year.
Mr. Kirienko also said he thought the World Association of Nuclear Operators, an industry group based in London, should have expanded authority to inspect reactors and coordinate safety efforts. Rosatom is a member of the group.
In an interview, Mr. Kirienko said the Russian stress tests would be completed in the next few months.
The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, is pushing for the European Union to conduct such tests on all 143 nuclear reactors of its member countries. In the United States, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said on Wednesday that it would complete a review of American reactors over the next 90 days, to determine what changes might be necessary after the disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi plant in Japan.
If Russian reactors failed the stress tests, ''we will have to take compensating measures,'' Mr. Kirienko said.
''I do not exclude the possibility of decommissioning some reactors, or replacing them with new ones as soon as possible.''
American reactors were put through a similar exercise in the 1990s, identifying weak spots and reinforcing them. At some plants, workers attached extra cables to the ceiling tiles in control rooms, to make sure they would not fall on operators in an earthquake. At others they beefed up the overhead trays that support control cables and power cables. Some strengthened the big tanks that hold cooling water; sometimes that meant removing small glass windows in the tank wall used to observe the water level, because the window could break, creating a leak.
Russia does not operate any boiling water reactors, the type involved in Fukushima. It operates many pressurized water reactors, a design also used in the West that Russian officials say is inherently safer. Some of the oldest such reactors in Russia have an extra-large volume of cooling water on hand, Mr. Kirienko said.
Mr. Kirienko said he did not expect the Fukushima case to affect the pace of reactor construction in China or India, because those countries already had nuclear expertise. But he said that reactor development in Italy, Switzerland and Venezuela, which do not have reactors now, would be delayed. And he said that Germany, which decided last week to shut down seven older nuclear plants, would probably also slow any new developments.
Despite the crisis in Japan, Russia may actually increase nuclear construction, Rosatom officials said. Sergey Novikov, a spokesman, said that before the disaster, the Russian goal was to increase the fraction of electricity from reactors to 25 to 30 percent by 2030, from 16 percent now.
In light of Fukushima, he said, the effort might turn to replacing some older reactors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



571 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Shares End Higher, Lifted by Technology and Falling Jobless Claims

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Stocks closed higher Thursday, helped by rising retail and technology shares, as investors pushed aside concerns about sovereign debt problems in Europe.
Mergers, corporate results and economic data in the United States have supported stocks in recent weeks, offsetting the potential for risk from global events, like turmoil in the Middle East; the tragedy in Japan and the possibility of more bailouts in the euro zone. 
Consumer discretionary and technology shares led the broader market higher, with each of those sectors posting gains of more than 1.3 percent.
The Dow Jones industrial average was up 84.54 points, or 0.70 percent, at 12,170.56. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 12.12 points, or 0.93 percent, at 1,309.66. The Nasdaq composite index rose up 38.12 points, or 1.41 percent, to 2,736.42.
Red Hat rose about 18 percent after reporting $244.8 million in revenue in the company's fourth quarter, exceeding forecasts. Among the strong stocks in technology that were also pulled up in the sector were Micron and Nvidia, each up about 8 percent.
Walgreen said it had agreed to acquire an online retailer, Drugstore.com, in a $409 million transaction, and its shares rose 0.6 percent. Drugstore.com more than doubled.
Best Buy, the nation's largest electronics retailer, reported fourth-quarter profit fell to $651 million, from $779 million. Sales also fell and the company's shares fell 5 percent.
''People wanted to hear them sound more aggressive about closing stores,'' said David Strasser, an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Ford Motor was the most actively traded issue and rose more than 5 percent.
Oracle, the corporate software maker, rose more than 2 percent, to $32.14 a share, in anticipation of its earnings results after the close of trading. The company said its third-quarter profit rose 78 percent on a 37 percent increase in sales and its stock rose another $1.09 in after-hours trading.
On Thursday, economic data was mixed. United States government statistics showed that as of last week, 5,000 fewer people filed for initial unemployment benefits, bringing the seasonally adjusted number to 382,000. The average number of such filings over the last four weeks dropped to its lowest level since July 2008.
But durable goods orders fell in February, a 0.9 percent drop that disappointed economists who had expected an increase. Goldman Sachs economists said it raised the prospect of a downside risk to its gross domestic product estimate of 3.5 percent for the first quarter.
The jobs report, signaling an improving economy, set off selling in the bond market, and interest rates rose. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 16/32, to 101 27/32, and the yield rose to 3.40 percent, from 3.34 percent late Wednesday.
Gold prices touched $1,448.60 an ounce, and oil hovered around $106 a barrel.
In Europe, the euro was at $1.4137, up from $1.4088 late Wednesday and the FTSE 100 in London; the CAC 40 in France and the DAX index in Germany each closed more than 1 percent higher.
Portugal's borrowing costs hit record levels Thursday, a day after the collapse of the government in Lisbon raised expectations that the country would be forced to seek an international bailout.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (94%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); MERGERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: DRUGSTORE.COM INC (83%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); NVIDIA CORP (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); NVDA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (83%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



572 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Out the Bad Girl For Some Tough Times

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
''Fresh out of reform school -- Barbara Graham,'' announced a booming voice to open Nellie McKay's new show, ''I Want to Live!,'' on Tuesday evening at Feinstein's at Loews Regency. Wearing a copper-colored dress whose tarnished glitter suggested crushed Christmas ornaments and flashing a bright artificial smile, Ms. McKay, bounced onto the stage like an animated package of pretty poison. 
The show that followed was a brilliant, zany film-noir musical biography of Barbara Graham, a convicted murderer who was the third woman to die in the gas chamber in California (at San Quentin) in 1955. In the 1958 movie ''I Want to Live!'' Graham was played by Susan Hayward, whose performance won her an Academy Award for best actress.
Ms. McKay is, if anything, the opposite of Hayward, whose screen alter egos tended to be embattled, humorless victims, weighed down by heavy psychological baggage. With her curly blond hair, light sinuous voice, and sunshiny aura Ms. McKay is closer to Shirley Temple. Physically she seems typecast to play a not-so-innocent Little Red Riding Hood who might carry a pearl-handled dagger in her basket of goodies.
''I Want to Live!'' combines Ms. McKay's virtually unlimited gifts as a singer, songwriter, actress, pianist, ukulele player, mimic, satirist and comedian into a show that is much deeper than its surface might suggest. Directly or indirectly, the songs, which come from here and there and include three originals, address America's post-crash economic woes with references to crime and the Great Depression.
In the most lighthearted way they evoke a heartless environment of social injustice in which people who fall through the cracks are invisible to everyone else. In the most pointed satiric shot Ms. McKay blithely carols Irving Berlin's ''Isn't This a Lovely Day'' while her drummer, Ben Bynum, ostentatiously simulates shooting heroin while she pretends not to notice.
A fragment of the Bobby McFerrin hit, ''Don't Worry, Be Happy'' is heard twice. The sensibility that emerges is that of a champion of the underdog who editorializes through insinuation and juxtaposition.
Backing Ms. McKay is an excellent ''hipster'' quartet that softens Louis Jordan's exuberant jive style into a slinkier pop-jazz sound, its subtlety exemplified by the tenor saxophonist Tivon Pennicott's barely audible tonal brush strokes. Rounding out the group are Alexi David on bass and Cary Park on guitar.
The show's final one-two punch is its death and resurrection coupling of ''Ah! Sweet Mystery of Life,'' sung Jeanette MacDonald style, with a growled rendition of the Tom Waits song ''Straight to the Top.'' In a matter of minutes Ms. McKay transports you from heaven into hell. Or is the other way around? She makes both worlds irresistibly seductive.
Nellie McKay's ''I Want to Live!'' runs through April 2 at Feinstein's at Loews Regency, 540 Park Avenue, at 61st Street; (212) 339-4095; feinsteinsattheregency.com/

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nellie McKay in her cabaret show at Feinstein's at Loews Regency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CHRISTMAS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); FILM (76%); MURDER (75%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (75%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); FILM GENRES (75%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (75%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (75%); SONG WRITING (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (55%); HEROIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



573 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23B

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Throwing Together a Meal, One Swap at a Time

BYLINE: By TWILIGHT GREENAWAY. 
culture@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
When Karen Solomon, author of ''Jam It, Pickle It, Cure It,'' began sending out invitations for a monthly baby-food swap, she was not sure how her recipients would respond.
After all, she was inviting them to feed their children meals, including roasted pears and curried lentils, made by people they did not know.
But for parents interested in consolidating food preparation while providing organic, homemade food to their newborns -- as well as some impromptu parenting advice -- Ms. Solomon's swap at 18 Reasons, a nonprofit food center in Mission Dolores, was just the thing. 
''Most mainstream baby food just isn't very appealing,'' said Ms. Solomon. ''Anything that saves young families any amount of time is enormously valuable.''
Ms. Solomon's event, which is now more than a year old, is one of a number of food swaps popping up around the Bay Area. Taking cues from the food co-operatives of the 1970s, these urban dwellers are restructuring their food economies around face-to-face relationships.
In San Francisco, 18 Reasons, which is affiliated with Bi-Rite Market, is the swapping hub. In the East Bay, the backyard-fruit-focused group Forage Oakland has been host to several produce and preserve swaps, and two new series begin in April: the Homemade Food Swap from East Bay Swappers, led by Kendra Poma, and the Belly to Belly Bartermart, hosted by Ellen Johnson, a chef who is host to underground dinners made with local, seasonal foods.
Some have termed the swaps ''collaborative consumption''-- a new, tech-savvy angle on the familiar idea that sharing and trading is crucial to creating prosperous communities. Clothes swaps, co-working and car shares are among the most visible forms of the new sharing economy, with sites like thredUP (for children's clothing), RelayRides (for cars) and Sharable.net (everything from bikes to data) gaining traction nationally.
Food sharing is an inherently personal form of collaboration; it is hard to quantify because most swaps occur privately. But thanks to social media and a resurgence in urban food production and preparation, it is now fairly easy to set up more formal exchanges.
No money changes hands at food swaps, and thus far, public food swaps have not been subject to Department of Public Health regulations, as underground restaurants and food markets are.
Ms. Johnson, host of the coming Belly to Belly swap, describes her event as ''an entirely different experience than shopping at Costco or Trader Joe's.''
''I can look a farmer in the eye, take the product he's lovingly made, transform it into something tasty and then trade it with another individual,'' she said.
Most food swaps are structured to drive home these values -- as well as to function practically. Ms. Poma is asking participants in her 30-person April event to state their offerings in advance, to make sure that everyone does not end up taking home jam.
Ms. Solomon requires that attendees' baby food be organic and, when possible, local. Her lunchtime event draws 5 to 10 parents at a time. Each swapper is responsible for 10 pints of pureed food, like squash and yogurt or green beans.
The mood varies between brisk exchange and social outing. ''I usually have to get back to work myself,'' Ms. Solomon said, ''and trying to get everyone out in time feels a little like closing down a bar at the end of the night.''
Simran Singh and Stacie Dong, bloggers for A Little Yumminess, began their monthly Homemade Family Dinner Swap in the fall of 2010, also at 18 Reasons, because they wanted to encourage people to eat at home in a city where residents still consume about half their meals at restaurants.
Every participant makes four batches of each meal, intended to feed three adults. They meet for half an hour on Sunday afternoons to swap. It is common for ingredients to come from local farms or from participants' gardens, a kind of transparency and personalization that goes beyond mere cost-effectiveness.
The spirit is one of generosity. For example, a new dad showed up late to a recent swap run by Ms. Singh and Ms. Dong, after the trading had already taken place, but the remaining members let him in anyway. ''The people who were leaving all just traded what they'd gotten with him, so it worked out fine,'' Ms. Singh said.
At Ms. Solomon's baby-food swap, community is also a theme. The information and advice exchanged among parents has been so meaningful to Ms. Solomon that she continues to put it on, despite the fact that her youngest son has moved on to solid foods.
She hopes to start cooking for Ms. Dong and Ms. Singh's swap when time allows, but for now, she is still encouraging those interested in homemade baby food. ''I'll be happy to host as long as people come,'' she said.
Vanessa Barrington, the author of ''DIY Delicious,'' has been swapping things like preserves, pickles and granolas informally for years, but she is heartened by the potential for a larger cultural shift toward organized swapping.
''There is trust involved, but also a deeper appreciation for the work that goes into producing these foods,'' she said. ''And that can only bring us closer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scott Weitze asked about the contents of Jo Cangelosi's Tupperware at a recent food swap at 18 Reasons in San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY FOODS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (77%); FAMILY (77%); AGRICULTURE (72%); PARENTING (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (50%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%)

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



574 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Egypt's Unfinished Revolution

 BODY:
While everyone is focusing on the war in Libya, the revolution is still playing out in Egypt -- a vital fact that its neighbors and other nations should not forget. The mostly peaceful protests that overthrew President Hosni Mubarak six weeks ago were just the first phase in a transition to what, we hope, will be a democratic future.
Egypt is the most important Arab country and the touchstone for change in the Arab world. Egyptians are going to have to exert maximum commitment -- over decades -- to get this right. The chances of success are greatly improved if the United States and other major democratic nations stand by ready to help. 
On Saturday, Egypt held its first free and fair election. Millions voted and overwhelmingly approved nine constitutional amendments to set the stage for parliamentary and presidential elections that are expected later this year.
The amendments begin to jettison a cruel and repressive system. They limit how long a president can serve (two four-year terms), make it easier for candidates to get on the ballot and restrict a president's ability to impose a state of emergency. Still, the process was flawed. The amendments were drafted by a panel appointed by the secretive ruling military council and rushed to a vote. They do not go nearly far enough and were not adequately publicized. A full rewrite of the Constitution will have to come later.
We share the unease of young protesters who made the revolution happen and worry their demand for democracy could be hijacked by the highly organized groups who campaigned hardest for the amendments: allies of the old regime and the Muslim Brotherhood.
The military government on Wednesday took another step toward civilian governance by easing rules on forming political parties. But it also laid plans to outlaw demonstrations. The draconian, decades-old state of emergency must be lifted and with it curbs on freedom of speech and assembly. It would be much better if protesters and civil society groups were involved in these decisions, including setting dates for elections.
Egyptians are justly proud of what they accomplished and wary of outsiders, especially the United States, which long backed the old regime. But they need to quickly make political reforms. If they resist American help, there are plenty of newly democratic countries that can advise on political parties and rule of law.
Where the United States and Europe can bring crucial assets to bear is with economic reform. Egypt's state-run economy -- where the military has a huge stake -- has failed to create jobs for millions of young Egyptians. A recently announced multimillion-dollar American economic aid package is a good start. The Obama administration also promised to sustain its longstanding aid to Egypt, which runs about $1.5 billion a year, mostly for the military.
But more is needed. The West should pursue bilateral and regional trade agreements with Egypt (this would be a good time for Israel to reach out). Congress needs to expedite approval for an American-Egyptian fund proposed by the Obama administration, Senator John Kerry and others. Modeled after similar funds for post-Communist Eastern Europe, it aims to stimulate desperately needed private-sector investment. The total cost is unclear, but the money initially would be reprogrammed from already approved accounts.
This is a moment of great promise -- and great risk -- in the Arab world. Success is not assured. Washington and its allies must work creatively and urgently to help Egyptians build their democracy to make it a durable anchor of stability and tolerance in the Middle East.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (73%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (70%); APPROVALS (69%); BALLOTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); JOB CREATION (60%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



575 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE RUSSELL

 BODY:
8 P.M. (National Geographic) FISH WARRIOR The adventure angler Jakub Vagner travels to the Trinity River in Texas in search of the alligator gar, above, with Mr. Vagner. With what resembles the body of a fish and the head of an alligator, the gar is known for its bony skull, armorlike scales and piercing teeth. But those defenses don't protect it from overfishing and environmental changes. Mr. Vagner helps scientists tag several fish for tracking and research. He also wants to catch and release a huge gar for the fun of it and manages to land one that stretches six feet and weighs 125 pounds. At 9 p.m., on ''Beast Hunter,'' the host, Pat Spain, who tries to uncover the truth behind mythical creatures, travels to the Gobi Desert in Mongolia to look for the so-called death worm. This creature is rumored to spray acid, send out electric shocks and explode when threatened. A woman who claims to have seen it says her family members were so frightened when they spotted one on their land that they moved the next day. 
7:30 P.M. (21) CONSUELO MACK WEALTHTRACK The financial historian Niall Ferguson, left, is interviewed and discusses diminishing Western economic and political power and what the United States could do to prevent further loss of influence. The topic is covered in Mr. Ferguson's latest book, ''Civilization: The West and the Rest.''
8 P.M. (Disney) THE SUITE LIFE MOVIE Zack (Dylan Sprouse) and Cody (Cole Sprouse) participate in a research project that studies twins, and they become connected in a strange new way: any thought or sensation experienced by one is also felt by the other. They may have insight as never before. But the power ultimately becomes a detriment, and their lives are put in danger.
8 P.M. (Fox) KITCHEN NIGHTMARES Chef Gordon Ramsay goes to Bridgeport, Conn., to try to save the Italian restaurant Cafe Tavolini from ruin.
8 P.M. (NBC) WHO DO YOU THINK YOU ARE? Celebrities are followed as they research their lineage on this reality show, and the actor Steve Buscemi, right, is up next. While growing up he linked his heritage to a certain New York City borough; he thought he was from the ''country of Brooklyn.''
8 P.M. (ABC) SHARK TANK In this reality series entrepreneurs present their business ideas to a panel of wealthy ''sharks'' who are eager to invest in a winning plan. On this episode an investor is willing to put $4 million into just one idea. A bacon-scented alarm clock is considered.
9 P.M. (HBO) THE RICKY GERVAIS SHOW Karl Pilkington explains what ''kicked me height'' means, but without the animated illustration viewers might still be confused.
9 P.M. (Fox) FRINGE Olivia (Anna Torv) appears to have been kidnapped and taken to the other side, where a new life may be threatening her own.
9 P.M. (TeenNick) DEGRASSI THE NEXT GENERATION Holly J. (Charlotte Arnold) hasn't slowed down despite her illness, but her symptoms are becoming too serious to ignore.
10 P.M. (TLC) DC CUPCAKES The sisters Katherine Kallinis and Sophie LaMontagne traded their high-powered careers in fashion and finance for baking, opening Georgetown Cupcake in 2008. This series follows the enormous success they have enjoyed. On this episode they make pink cupcakes for Breast Cancer Awareness Month and later use the treats for a sculpture of a giant bra.
10 P.M. (Syfy) MERLIN A young man (the guest star Harry Melling) is to go up against Uther (Anthony Head) in Camelot's annual tournament, and Merlin (Colin Morgan) fears this matchup is somehow putting the entire kingdom in jeopardy.
10 P.M. (Current TV) BAR KARMA Ken Leung (known for playing Miles on ''Lost'') guest stars on this show, which allows viewers to help shape the stories they'll watch involving a mysterious, magical bar. Mr. Leung plays a confused robber who appears at the bar, and another unwelcome visitor forces the bartender, James (William Sanderson), to confront his fears.
10 P.M. (Animal Planet) CONFESSIONS: ANIMAL HOARDING A former drug addict is obsessed with rodents, and a woman has a herd of goats and pit bulls. STEPHANIE RUSSELL

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC CHANNEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (85%); NETWORK TELEVISION (85%); HISTORY (75%); CELEBRITIES (74%); FAMILY (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); REALITY TELEVISION (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%); GOBI DESERT (56%) UNITED STATES (90%); MONGOLIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



576 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUT NOBODY PAYS THAT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2900 words

HEADLINE: At G.E. on Tax Day, Billions of Reasons to Smile

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
General Electric, the nation's largest corporation, had a very good year in 2010.
The company reported worldwide profits of $14.2 billion, and said $5.1 billion of the total came from its operations in the United States.
Its American tax bill? None. In fact, G.E. claimed a tax benefit of $3.2 billion.
That may be hard to fathom for the millions of American business owners and households now preparing their own returns, but low taxes are nothing new for G.E. The company has been cutting the percentage of its American profits paid to the Internal Revenue Service for years, resulting in a far lower rate than at most multinational companies.
Its extraordinary success is based on an aggressive strategy that mixes fierce lobbying for tax breaks and innovative accounting that enables it to concentrate its profits offshore. G.E.'s giant tax department, led by a bow-tied former Treasury official named John Samuels, is often referred to as the world's best tax law firm. Indeed, the company's slogan ''Imagination at Work'' fits this department well. The team includes former officials not just from the Treasury, but also from the I.R.S. and virtually all the tax-writing committees in Congress. 
While General Electric is one of the most skilled at reducing its tax burden, many other companies have become better at this as well. Although the top corporate tax rate in the United States is 35 percent, one of the highest in the world, companies have been increasingly using a maze of shelters, tax credits and subsidies to pay far less.
In a regulatory filing just a week before the Japanese disaster put a spotlight on the company's nuclear reactor business, G.E. reported that its tax burden was 7.4 percent of its American profits, about a third of the average reported by other American multinationals. Even those figures are overstated, because they include taxes that will be paid only if the company brings its overseas profits back to the United States. With those profits still offshore, G.E. is effectively getting money back.
Such strategies, as well as changes in tax laws that encouraged some businesses and professionals to file as individuals, have pushed down the corporate share of the nation's tax receipts -- from 30 percent of all federal revenue in the mid-1950s to 6.6 percent in 2009.
Yet many companies say the current level is so high it hobbles them in competing with foreign rivals. Even as the government faces a mounting budget deficit, the talk in Washington is about lower rates. President Obama has said he is considering an overhaul of the corporate tax system, with an eye to lowering the top rate, ending some tax subsidies and loopholes and generating the same amount of revenue. He has designated G.E.'s chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, as his liaison to the business community and as the chairman of the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness, and it is expected to discuss corporate taxes.
''He understands what it takes for America to compete in the global economy,'' Mr. Obama said of Mr. Immelt, on his appointment in January, after touring a G.E. factory in upstate New York that makes turbines and generators for sale around the world.
A review of company filings and Congressional records shows that one of the most striking advantages of General Electric is its ability to lobby for, win and take advantage of tax breaks.
Over the last decade, G.E. has spent tens of millions of dollars to push for changes in tax law, from more generous depreciation schedules on jet engines to ''green energy'' credits for its wind turbines. But the most lucrative of these measures allows G.E. to operate a vast leasing and lending business abroad with profits that face little foreign taxes and no American taxes as long as the money remains overseas.
Company officials say that these measures are necessary for G.E. to compete against global rivals and that they are acting as responsible citizens. ''G.E. is committed to acting with integrity in relation to our tax obligations,'' said Anne Eisele, a spokeswoman. ''We are committed to complying with tax rules and paying all legally obliged taxes. At the same time, we have a responsibility to our shareholders to legally minimize our costs.''
The assortment of tax breaks G.E. has won in Washington has provided a significant short-term gain for the company's executives and shareholders. While the financial crisis led G.E. to post a loss in the United States in 2009, regulatory filings show that in the last five years, G.E. has accumulated $26 billion in American profits, and received a net tax benefit from the I.R.S. of $4.1 billion.
But critics say the use of so many shelters amounts to corporate welfare, allowing G.E. not just to avoid taxes on profitable overseas lending but also to amass tax credits and write-offs that can be used to reduce taxes on billions of dollars of profit from domestic manufacturing. They say that the assertive tax avoidance of multinationals like G.E. not only shortchanges the Treasury, but also harms the economy by discouraging investment and hiring in the United States.
''In a rational system, a corporation's tax department would be there to make sure a company complied with the law,'' said Len Burman, a former Treasury official who now is a scholar at the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. ''But in our system, there are corporations that view their tax departments as a profit center, and the effects on public policy can be negative.''
The shelters are so crucial to G.E.'s bottom line that when Congress threatened to let the most lucrative one expire in 2008, the company came out in full force. G.E. officials worked with dozens of financial companies to send letters to Congress and hired a bevy of outside lobbyists.
The head of its tax team, Mr. Samuels, met with Representative Charles B. Rangel, then chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, which would decide the fate of the tax break. As he sat with the committee's staff members outside Mr. Rangel's office, Mr. Samuels dropped to his knee and pretended to beg for the provision to be extended -- a flourish made in jest, he said through a spokeswoman.
That day, Mr. Rangel reversed his opposition to the tax break, according to other Democrats on the committee.
The following month, Mr. Rangel and Mr. Immelt stood together at St. Nicholas Park in Harlem as G.E. announced that its foundation had awarded $30 million to New York City schools, including $11 million to benefit various schools in Mr. Rangel's district. Joel I. Klein, then the schools chancellor, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who presided, said it was the largest gift ever to the city's schools.
G.E. officials say the donation was granted solely on the merit of the project. ''The foundation goes to great lengths to ensure grant decisions are not influenced by company government relations or lobbying priorities,'' Ms. Eisele said.
Mr. Rangel, who was censured by Congress last year for soliciting donations from corporations and executives with business before his committee, said this month that the donation was unrelated to his official actions.
Defying Reagan's Legacy
General Electric has been a household name for generations, with light bulbs, electric fans, refrigerators and other appliances in millions of American homes. But today the consumer appliance division accounts for less than 6 percent of revenue, while lending accounts for more than 30 percent. Industrial, commercial and medical equipment like power plant turbines and jet engines account for about 50 percent. Its industrial work includes everything from wind farms to nuclear energy projects like the troubled plant in Japan, built in the 1970s.
Because its lending division, GE Capital, has provided more than half of the company's profit in some recent years, many Wall Street analysts view G.E. not as a manufacturer but as an unregulated lender that also makes dishwashers and M.R.I. machines.
As it has evolved, the company has used, and in some cases pioneered, aggressive strategies to lower its tax bill. In the mid-1980s, President Ronald Reagan overhauled the tax system after learning that G.E. -- a company for which he had once worked as a commercial pitchman -- was among dozens of corporations that had used accounting gamesmanship to avoid paying any taxes.
''I didn't realize things had gotten that far out of line,'' Mr. Reagan told the Treasury secretary, Donald T. Regan, according to Mr. Regan's 1988 memoir. The president supported a change that closed loopholes and required G.E. to pay a far higher effective rate, up to 32.5 percent.
That pendulum began to swing back in the late 1990s. G.E. and other financial services firms won a change in tax law that would allow multinationals to avoid taxes on some kinds of banking and insurance income. The change meant that if G.E. financed the sale of a jet engine or generator in Ireland, for example, the company would no longer have to pay American tax on the interest income as long as the profits remained offshore.
Known as active financing, the tax break proved to be beneficial for investment banks, brokerage firms, auto and farm equipment companies, and lenders like GE Capital. This tax break allowed G.E. to avoid taxes on lending income from abroad, and permitted the company to amass tax credits, write-offs and depreciation. Those benefits are then used to offset taxes on its American manufacturing profits.
G.E. subsequently ramped up its lending business.
As the company expanded abroad, the portion of its profits booked in low-tax countries such as Ireland and Singapore grew far faster. From 1996 through 1998, its profits and revenue in the United States were in sync -- 73 percent of the company's total. Over the last three years, though, 46 percent of the company's revenue was in the United States, but just 18 percent of its profits.
Martin A. Sullivan, a tax economist for the trade publication Tax Analysts, said that booking such a large percentage of its profits in low-tax countries has ''allowed G.E. to bring its U.S. effective tax rate to rock-bottom levels.''
G.E. officials say the disparity between American revenue and American profit is the result of ordinary business factors, such as investment in overseas markets and heavy lending losses in the United States recently. The company also says the nation's workers benefit when G.E. profits overseas.
''We believe that winning in markets outside the United States increases U.S. exports and jobs,'' Mr. Samuels said through a spokeswoman. ''If U.S. companies aren't competitive outside of their home market, it will mean fewer, not more, jobs in the United States, as the business will go to a non-U.S. competitor.''
The company does not specify how much of its global tax savings derive from active financing, but called it ''significant'' in its annual report. Stock analysts estimate the tax benefit to G.E. to be hundreds of millions of dollars a year.
''Cracking down on offshore profit-shifting by financial companies like G.E. was one of the important achievements of President Reagan's 1986 Tax Reform Act,'' said Robert S. McIntyre, director of the liberal group Citizens for Tax Justice, who played a key role in those changes. ''The fact that Congress was snookered into undermining that reform at the behest of companies like G.E. is an insult not just to Reagan, but to all the ordinary American taxpayers who have to foot the bill for G.E.'s rampant tax sheltering.''
A Full-Court Press
Minimizing taxes is so important at G.E. that Mr. Samuels has placed tax strategists in decision-making positions in many major manufacturing facilities and businesses around the globe. Mr. Samuels, a graduate of Vanderbilt University and the University of Chicago Law School, declined to be interviewed for this article. Company officials acknowledged that the tax department had expanded since he joined the company in 1988, and said it now had 975 employees.
At a tax symposium in 2007, a G.E. tax official said the department's ''mission statement'' consisted of 19 rules and urged employees to divide their time evenly between ensuring compliance with the law and ''looking to exploit opportunities to reduce tax.''
Transforming the most creative strategies of the tax team into law is another extensive operation. G.E. spends heavily on lobbying: more than $200 million over the last decade, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Records filed with election officials show a significant portion of that money was devoted to tax legislation. G.E. has even turned setbacks into successes with Congressional help. After the World Trade Organization forced the United States to halt $5 billion a year in export subsidies to G.E. and other manufacturers, the company's lawyers and lobbyists became deeply involved in rewriting a portion of the corporate tax code, according to news reports after the 2002 decision and a Congressional staff member.
By the time the measure -- the American Jobs Creation Act -- was signed into law by President George W. Bush in 2004, it contained more than $13 billion a year in tax breaks for corporations, many very beneficial to G.E. One provision allowed companies to defer taxes on overseas profits from leasing planes to airlines. It was so generous -- and so tailored to G.E. and a handful of other companies -- that staff members on the House Ways and Means Committee publicly complained that G.E. would reap ''an overwhelming percentage'' of the estimated $100 million in annual tax savings.
According to its 2007 regulatory filing, the company saved more than $1 billion in American taxes because of that law in the three years after it was enacted.
By 2008, however, concern over the growing cost of overseas tax loopholes put G.E. and other corporations on the defensive. With Democrats in control of both houses of Congress, momentum was building to let the active financing exception expire. Mr. Rangel of the Ways and Means Committee indicated that he favored letting it end and directing the new revenue -- an estimated $4 billion a year -- to other priorities.
G.E. pushed back. In addition to the $18 million allocated to its in-house lobbying department, the company spent more than $3 million in 2008 on lobbying firms assigned to the task.
Mr. Rangel dropped his opposition to the tax break. Representative Joseph Crowley, Democrat of New York, said he had helped sway Mr. Rangel by arguing that the tax break would help Citigroup, a major employer in Mr. Crowley's district.
G.E. officials say that neither Mr. Samuels nor any lobbyists working on behalf of the company discussed the possibility of a charitable donation with Mr. Rangel. The only contact was made in late 2007, a company spokesman said, when Mr. Immelt called to inform Mr. Rangel that the foundation was giving money to schools in his district.
But in 2008, when Mr. Rangel was criticized for using Congressional stationery to solicit donations for a City College of New York school being built in his honor, Mr. Rangel said he had appealed to G.E. executives to make the $30 million donation to New York City schools.
G.E. had nothing to do with the City College project, he said at a July 2008 news conference in Washington. ''And I didn't send them any letter,'' Mr. Rangel said, adding that he ''leaned on them to help us out in the city of New York as they have throughout the country. But my point there was that I do know that the C.E.O. there is connected with the foundation.''
In an interview this month, Mr. Rangel offered a different version of events -- saying he didn't remember ever discussing it with Mr. Immelt and was unaware of the foundation's donation until the mayor's office called him in June, before the announcement and after Mr. Rangel had dropped his opposition to the tax break.
Asked to explain the discrepancies between his accounts, Mr. Rangel replied, ''I have no idea.''
Value to Americans?
While G.E.'s declining tax rates have bolstered profits and helped the company continue paying dividends to shareholders during the economic downturn, some tax experts question what taxpayers are getting in return. Since 2002, the company has eliminated a fifth of its work force in the United States while increasing overseas employment. In that time, G.E.'s accumulated offshore profits have risen to $92 billion from $15 billion.
''That G.E. can almost set its own tax rate shows how very much we need reform,'' said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, who has proposed closing many corporate tax shelters. ''Our tax system should encourage job creation and investment in America and end these tax incentives for exporting jobs and dodging responsibility for the cost of securing our country.''
As the Obama administration and leaders in Congress consider proposals to revamp the corporate tax code, G.E. is well prepared to defend its interests. The company spent $4.1 million on outside lobbyists last year, including four boutique firms that specialize in tax policy.
''We are a diverse company, so there are a lot of issues that the government considers, that Congress considers, that affect our shareholders,'' said Gary Sheffer, a G.E. spokesman. ''So we want to be sure our voice is heard.''
But Nobody Pays That: Articles in this series will examine efforts by businesses to lower their taxes and the debate over how to improve the tax system.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A PRESIDENT'S BUSINESS LIAISON: In January, President Obama named Jeffrey R. Immelt, General Electric's chief executive, to head the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness. ''He understands what it takes for America to compete in the global economy,'' Mr. Obama said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) GRAPHICS: Where Profits Don't Always Mean Taxes: General Electric has reduced its federal taxes using a variety of strategies and loopholes built into the tax code. (Source: General Electric's financial statements) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); LOBBYING (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CORPORATE TAX (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); LAWYERS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (90%); GEC (LSE) (90%); GE (SWX) (90%); GE (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (69%); JEFFREY IMMELT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



577 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Sees Nuclear Error by Libya

BYLINE: By MARK McDONALD

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- A North Korean statement that Libya's dismantling of its nuclear weapons program had made it vulnerable to military intervention by the West is being seen by analysts as an ominous reinforcement of the North's refusal to end its own nuclear program. 
North Korea's official news agency carried comments this week from a Foreign Ministry official criticizing the air assault on Libyan government forces and suggesting that Libya had been duped in 2003 when it abandoned its nuclear program in exchange for promises of aid and improved relations with the West.
Calling the West's bargain with Libya ''an invasion tactic to disarm the country,'' the official said it amounted to a bait and switch approach. ''The Libyan crisis is teaching the international community a grave lesson,'' the official was quoted as saying Tuesday, proclaiming that North Korea's ''songun'' ideology of a powerful military was ''proper in a thousand ways'' and the only guarantor of peace on the Korean Peninsula.
As they have watched the attacks in Libya this week, senior North Korean leaders ''must feel alarmed, but also deeply satisfied with themselves,'' said Rudiger Frank, an adjunct professor at Korea University and the University of North Korean Studies, writing on the Web site 38 North. North Korea is believed to have 8 to 12 nuclear weapons and last year disclosed a new uranium-enrichment plant.
Mr. Frank said that the Libyan situation was ''at least the third instance in two decades that would seem to offer proof that they did something right while others failed and ultimately paid the price.'' He said North Korea would probably see object lessons in the Soviet Union's decision to end the arms race and to ''abandon the political option to use their weapons of mass destruction,'' and in Iraq's agreement to accept United Nations nuclear inspectors and monitors. And now, Libya.
''To put it bluntly,'' Mr. Frank said, ''in the eyes of the North Korean leadership all three countries took the economic bait, foolishly disarmed themselves, and once they were defenseless, were mercilessly punished by the West.''
''It requires little imaginative power to see what conclusions will be drawn in Pyongyang,'' he said, adding that anyone in the senior leadership who favored denuclearization ''will now be silent.''
The United States said there was no link between Libya's abandonment of efforts to develop nuclear arms and other weapons and the current military campaign by Western nations.
''Where they're at today has absolutely no connection with them renouncing their nuclear program or nuclear weapons,'' said Mark Toner, a State Department spokesman.
The comments by the anonymous North Korean official appeared to dim the chances for a renewal of the so-called six-party talks on the dismantling of North Korea's atomic program. The talks ended in 2009 when North Korea withdrew, angry over international sanctions that followed a long-range missile test. The two Koreas, the United States, China, Russia and Japan are the participants in the six-party process, which began in 2003. China, North Korea's only major ally, has served as the host country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



578 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Deep Rift in Beaumont on School Administration

BYLINE: By MORGAN SMITH. 
msmith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
BEAUMONT -- Just off I-10, where the bayous between Houston and this once boomtown begin to transform into the landscape of suburbia, stands the imposing Carrol A. ''Butch'' Thomas Educational Support Center.
The Beaumont Independent School District completed the center -- which sits on 85 acres and includes a 10,600-seat football stadium and a competition-sized natatorium -- last August. Financed through a $388.6-million bond package voters approved in 2007, it is named after the superintendent who has led the district for 15 years.
For some here, the estimated $47 million complex is a monument to the excess of a prodigal administration. For others, it is a proper tribute to a man who has brought new opportunities to the district's predominantly black, economically disadvantaged students.
Mr. Thomas, who makes $347,834 annually, is the highest-paid superintendent in Texas, even though his district of about 20,000 students is considerably smaller than those in other large Texas cities. Mr. Thomas, who was widely praised when first hired, has recently become the focus of criticism for his leadership -- criticism his supporters say is racially motivated. Mr. Thomas did not respond to several requests for comment made through his spokeswoman, Jessie Haynes. 
In May, residents will vote on a ballot initiative to make two of the school board's seven seats at-large positions. At present, each member represents a geographical region. Mr. Thomas's supporters view the proposed change as an effort to remake the board, which now has four black members and three white.
His critics see it as an opportunity to reclaim control of an institution still central to the life of a struggling city with an 11 percent unemployment rate and a median household income well below the national average.
When Mr. Thomas arrived here in 1996, he became the district's first black superintendent. He took over a district that was in ''deep distress,'' said Mike Moses, who was the commissioner of the Texas Education Agency at the time. Racial tensions -- over another bond issue and between members of the board -- had reached a point that the agency intervened in the district's search for a new superintendent.
To say that Mr. Thomas ''calmed the waters and settled it down would be putting it mildly,'' Mr. Moses said, adding, ''To those who think there needs to be a change now, generally for him to have lasted 15 years there, given that environment, I'd say he's done more right than he has done wrong.''
Among those calling loudest for a change is Michael Getz, a lawyer running for a City Council seat. He started the effort to create the two at-large seats, Mr. Getz said, after becoming frustrated with what he termed mismanagement of the bond money.
Mr. Getz filed a lawsuit against the district in 2009 after he learned of its plans to demolish a 1920s school building using money from the bond, a use that he said was never in the proposal to voters. In January 2010, a state court agreed with him. The district proceeded with non-bond money, however, and began demolition on Good Friday.
The demolition carried symbolic weight for Mr. Getz and other longtime Beaumont residents because the building once housed South Park High School, which until 1983 when South Park merged with the Beaumont I.S.D. was the city's predominantly white district.
The district's spokeswoman, Ms. Haynes, did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
Mr. Getz is not the only one who has objected to the district's management. In February, State Representative Allan R. Ritter and Senator Tommy Williams, Republicans who represent parts of Beaumont, filed bills to prevent school districts from building hotels -- aiming directly at Mr. Thomas's proposal that the district construct an 8,000-seat event center and 200- to 300-room hotel adjacent to the new athletic center. The district has since tabled plans for the hotel, but intends to go forward with the event center, according to comments by Mr. Thomas at a recent board meeting, according to The Beaumont Enterprise.
The state education agency is also auditing the district's use of bond money, according to a January letter addressed to Mr. Thomas, which questions whether the district has complied with state law governing Texas' bond guarantee program. A spokeswoman for the agency said she expected the audit's findings to be completed next week.
There has also been negative publicity about alleged misconduct by district employees, including its electrician, Calvin Walker, who is under federal investigation, according to the local United States Attorney's Office, for possibly overcharging for his services. (Mr. Walker did not respond to a phone message left at his office.)
Karen Douresseau and Constance Kemp, whose children attend Beaumont schools, said the media scrutiny, especially of Mr. Thomas's salary, was unfair. Ms. Douresseau called it a ''high-tech lynching.''
Michael Bramble, who sat watching his son's high school soccer practice at the stadium, said he thought Mr. Thomas deserved his salary. ''There's nothing wrong with rewarding a good job,'' he said, ''People who do not live in our neighborhood, they don't understand what he's doing for our neighborhood.''
Mr. Thomas's high pay is ''not surprising at all'' given his tenure and his performance, according to Neal Adams, who said that as general counsel for the Texas Association of School Administrators he had negotiated most superintendent contracts in the state since 1987.
Mr. Adams said the annual 3.9 percent raise Mr. Thomas gets upon board approval each year is not an unusual provision either. The standard length for most superintendent contracts in Texas is three years, he said, but five-year ones like Mr. Thomas's are common in many larger districts.
Student achievement in Beaumont has climbed steadily for the past 15 years, even as the state has moved to the more rigorous Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills tests and required more students to be included in the testing. Nine new elementary schools and one new middle school are also being built with part of the bond money.
But with the Legislature debating cuts of $4 billion to $10 billion in education financing, the Beaumont I.S.D. -- and Mr. Thomas -- has become a symbol of what districts are doing wrong, said David Bradley, who represents Beaumont on the State Board of Education and has lived there since 1991. He said the district had lost the confidence of taxpayers.
''This a case of pride and arrogance,'' he said. ''Beaumont I.S.D. is rapidly becoming the poster child for why there is not more support for an increase in public education funding in the Legislature.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article last Friday on the Beaumont Independent School District misspelled the surname of the spokeswoman for Carrol A. Thomas, the district's superintendent. She is Jessie Haynes, not Hayes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Getz, a Beaumont lawyer who is highly critical of the administration of the city's schools, is running for City Council. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALLIE RICHMOND FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); SCHOOL BONDS (89%); SUBURBS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); BONDS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); APPROVALS (70%); BOND ISSUES (70%); REFERENDUMS (70%); BALLOTS (70%); CITIES (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



579 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: The Austerity Delusion

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Portugal's government has just fallen in a dispute over austerity proposals. Irish bond yields have topped 10 percent for the first time. And the British government has just marked its economic forecast down and its deficit forecast up.
What do these events have in common? They're all evidence that slashing spending in the face of high unemployment is a mistake. Austerity advocates predicted that spending cuts would bring quick dividends in the form of rising confidence, and that there would be few, if any, adverse effects on growth and jobs; but they were wrong. 
It's too bad, then, that these days you're not considered serious in Washington unless you profess allegiance to the same doctrine that's failing so dismally in Europe.
It was not always thus. Two years ago, faced with soaring unemployment and large budget deficits -- both the consequences of a severe financial crisis -- most advanced-country leaders seemingly understood that the problems had to be tackled in sequence, with an immediate focus on creating jobs combined with a long-run strategy of deficit reduction.
Why not slash deficits immediately? Because tax increases and cuts in government spending would depress economies further, worsening unemployment. And cutting spending in a deeply depressed economy is largely self-defeating even in purely fiscal terms: any savings achieved at the front end are partly offset by lower revenue, as the economy shrinks.
So jobs now, deficits later was and is the right strategy. Unfortunately, it's a strategy that has been abandoned in the face of phantom risks and delusional hopes. On one side, we're constantly told that if we don't slash spending immediately we'll end up just like Greece, unable to borrow except at exorbitant interest rates. On the other, we're told not to worry about the impact of spending cuts on jobs because fiscal austerity will actually create jobs by raising confidence.
How's that story working out so far?
Self-styled deficit hawks have been crying wolf over U.S. interest rates more or less continuously since the financial crisis began to ease, taking every uptick in rates as a sign that markets were turning on America. But the truth is that rates have fluctuated, not with debt fears, but with rising and falling hope for economic recovery. And with full recovery still seeming very distant, rates are lower now than they were two years ago.
But couldn't America still end up like Greece? Yes, of course. If investors decide that we're a banana republic whose politicians can't or won't come to grips with long-term problems, they will indeed stop buying our debt. But that's not a prospect that hinges, one way or another, on whether we punish ourselves with short-run spending cuts.
Just ask the Irish, whose government -- having taken on an unsustainable debt burden by trying to bail out runaway banks -- tried to reassure markets by imposing savage austerity measures on ordinary citizens. The same people urging spending cuts on America cheered. ''Ireland offers an admirable lesson in fiscal responsibility,'' declared Alan Reynolds of the Cato Institute, who said that the spending cuts had removed fears over Irish solvency and predicted rapid economic recovery.
That was in June 2009. Since then, the interest rate on Irish debt has doubled; Ireland's unemployment rate now stands at 13.5 percent.
And then there's the British experience. Like America, Britain is still perceived as solvent by financial markets, giving it room to pursue a strategy of jobs first, deficits later. But the government of Prime Minister David Cameron chose instead to move to immediate, unforced austerity, in the belief that private spending would more than make up for the government's pullback. As I like to put it, the Cameron plan was based on belief that the confidence fairy would make everything all right.
But she hasn't: British growth has stalled, and the government has marked up its deficit projections as a result.
Which brings me back to what passes for budget debate in Washington these days.
A serious fiscal plan for America would address the long-run drivers of spending, above all health care costs, and it would almost certainly include some kind of tax increase. But we're not serious: any talk of using Medicare funds effectively is met with shrieks of ''death panels,'' and the official G.O.P. position -- barely challenged by Democrats -- appears to be that nobody should ever pay higher taxes. Instead, all the talk is about short-run spending cuts.
In short, we have a political climate in which self-styled deficit hawks want to punish the unemployed even as they oppose any action that would address our long-run budget problems. And here's what we know from experience abroad: The confidence fairy won't save us from the consequences of our folly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GREECE (92%); EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



580 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: I Travel Because I Have To, I Come Back Because I Love You

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
As singular as its title, ''I Travel Because I Have To, I Come Back Because I Love You'' embraces road movie, personal journal and trancelike study of arcing grief. 
Voiced by an unseen geologist (Irandhir Santos) to his left-behind love, this provocative experimental fiction from Marcelo Gomes and Karim Ainouz unfolds on the stark scrublands of northeast Brazil. Studying the economic viability of cutting a canal through the forbiddingly arid land and displacing its inhabitants, the geologist finds that the barren, lonely surroundings increasingly exacerbate his dispirited mood. Home- and heartsick, veering from despair to resignation, he records the Earth's fractures and resists ''the mad urge to turn back.''
Coming in at a tight 75 minutes, this strikingly original travelogue glides on the lovely lilt of Mr. Santos's Portuguese narration. Listing the contents of a backpack (magnet, chloric acid, machete) or yearning for the absent beloved, his voice caresses the film's portraits of soon-to-be-evacuees -- a woman snipping rose petals from pink Styrofoam; two brothers stuffing straw mattresses, oaken faces buffed with sweat -- like melancholy music. The sway of young prostitutes and a couple dancing in a nightclub, a tiny baby nestled between them, keeps time.
To achieve the film's unusual tones and textures, the director of photography, Heloisa Passos, used a variety of formats, assembling a visual record of poverty and labor that's at once barbed and narcotic. As the region's parched terrain drifts past the car's dust-smeared windshield, the candid longing of a pretty call girl for ''a leisure life'' could not possibly seem more fruitless or more rueful.
I TRAVEL BECAUSE I HAVE TO, I COME BACK BECAUSE I LOVE YOU
Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
Written and directed by Marcelo Gomes and Karim Ainouz; director of photography, Heloisa Passos; edited by Karen Harley; music by Chambaril; produced by Joao Vieira Jr. and Daniela Capelato; released by FiGa Films. At the Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village. In Portuguese, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 15 minutes. This film is not rated.
WITH: Irandhir Santos (Jose Renato).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (87%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); PROSTITUTION (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) EARTH (79%); NEW YORK, USA (51%) BRAZIL (90%); UNITED STATES (51%)

TITLE: I Travel Because I Have To, I Come Back Because I Love You (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



581 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: To End Inquiry, Suffolk Leader Exits Race

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive who switched parties to seek the Republican nomination for governor last year, abruptly ended his bid for a third term on Thursday in a deal to end a 16-month criminal investigation of his political fund-raising.
His exit from the election this year drew a crashing halt to a political career that had taken him from near-outcast among Democrats for his incendiary rhetoric on immigration and fiscal tightfistedness to a near-hero among many New York Republicans, who saw him as their only hope to deny Andrew M. Cuomo the governor's office. 
In an extraordinary statement, the Suffolk County district attorney, Thomas J. Spota, a Democrat, implied that he declined to prosecute at least partly to spare the county a leadership crisis at a time when it can ill afford one. ''The decision to allow Mr. Levy to complete his term was carefully considered and involved weighing his conduct, the need for stability in government in these difficult economic times while affording a smooth transition after the 2011 elections,'' Mr. Spota wrote.
The murky facts surrounding Mr. Levy's departure came in stark contrast to his squeaky clean reputation. An early advocate for public financing of campaigns, he gained popularity in the 1980s as a Democrat in Republican areas by proposing many good-government reforms.
And as the executive since 2004 of New York's largest suburban county, he won a bipartisan following as a cost-cutter and self-styled champion for people upset with their property tax burden. That image was only enhanced by his frequent clashes with lawmakers, both in Suffolk's Legislature and in Albany, and with labor leaders, whom he seemed to take joy in antagonizing.
A year ago, Mr. Levy, a lifelong Democrat, left the party in a failed effort to win the Republican nomination for governor. He was recruited by some Republican leaders who saw him as tailor-made for the moment, but other party officials snubbed him, viewing his 11th-hour conversion with suspicion.
''You could say it was ambition, you could say it was hubris, you could say it was reaching a little bit beyond his design specs,'' said Lawrence C. Levy, no relation, an expert on suburban politics at Hofstra University. ''But a lot of people around the state believed Steve Levy was going to be, four years from now, the next Republican candidate for governor, and that if he had been the candidate last fall, Republican candidates throughout the state would have done better than they did.''
Mr. Levy, 51, whose campaign war chest of $4.1 million had scared away all but one Democratic challenger in the November election, instead agreed to turn over all of that money to the Suffolk district attorney's office.
In return, Mr. Spota closed an investigation by his government corruption bureau that he said had begun in summer 2009. ''You can be assured that if I believed that his actions compromised his ability to govern, I would have sought his resignation,'' Mr. Spota said. ''Restraint is often more difficult than aggressive action, but in this case I know it is more appropriate.''
Mr. Levy, in a statement, said he accepted responsibility for his actions. Patricia Pileggi, a former prosecutor who was chief of the public integrity section at the United States attorney's office in Brooklyn, said that when a target of a case accepted responsibility for wrongdoing, it could be a tipping factor in whether to continue an investigation.''
Mr. Levy's exit upended Suffolk politics. It dealt a devastating blow to the Republican Party, which was counting on his coattails to help it recapture the county's Legislature. Democrats, meanwhile, had already coalesced behind Steve Bellone, the supervisor of the town of Babylon.
Mr. Spota's interest in Mr. Levy's fund-raising from people doing business with the county, and in the use of county workers for his campaign, was an open secret, according to officials who were interviewed by prosecutors.
The investigation surfaced recently, during the trial of a former county lawmaker convicted of grand larceny and insurance fraud, when prosecutors called as a witness a convicted tax evader whom Mr. Levy had recommended for $85,000 in county title-insurance work. That man, under investigation in a separate fraud case, accused Mr. Levy of trading county contracts for campaign donations, Newsday reported.
Mr. Spota said little about what his inquiry had found, while indicating it had turned up no evidence that Mr. Levy had lined his own pockets. ''There is no question,'' he said, ''that while the investigation revealed serious issues with regard to fund-raising and the manner in which it was conducted, including the use of public resources, I am confident that Mr. Levy did not personally profit.''
John Zaher, a Republican political consultant, said he was reeling: ''It's a major blow to anyone who respects good government in Suffolk County. ''
How the news broke on Thursday came as an added rebuke to Mr. Levy. At about 4 p.m., he issued a lengthy statement, saying he had agonized over whether to run and attributing his decision to fatigue after a quarter-century in public life, mentioning ''long hours, tough decisions, grueling debates, family sacrifices and a feeling that after a while you've accomplished what you set out to do on one level and look to new challenges.''
At the tail end of his statement, Mr. Levy acknowledged, almost as an afterthought, that ''questions have been raised concerning fund-raising through my political campaign,'' and said he had accepted responsibility and was turning over his campaign balance to the district attorney.
Minutes later, Mr. Spota issued his own statement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Levy in June at the state Republican convention, where he sought backing for the party's nomination for governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); SUBURBS (64%); IMMIGRATION (56%); PROPERTY TAX (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



582 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Exelon, Largest U.S. Reactor Owner, Seeks to Reassure

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Exelon, the largest operator of nuclear power plants in the United States, sought to reassure investors and the public about the safety of its 17 reactors on Thursday. The company's chief executive, John W. Rowe, declared that the company was well prepared to ''respond to emergencies not contemplated in the original design.''
Nevertheless, Mr. Rowe said that he expected that American regulators would impose new safety requirements on nuclear plants after the Japanese crisis. That is likely to add pose ''significant costs'' to the utilities that operate the plants, he said in a conference call with investors. 
Mr. Rowe's comments echo those of others in the nuclear industry, who have said that the 104 American reactors are safe and generally do not face the same earthquake and tsunami risks that played an important role in the problems at the Fukushima Daiichi complex in Japan.
Two utilities planning to break ground on new nuclear plants in Georgia and South Carolina say they are committed to proceeding with their projects despite the accident in Japan. Another nuclear project, proposed in Texas by NRG, was already facing financing problems and is likely to encounter further hurdles in the new environment.
Mr. Rowe, whose company has no new plants in the planning stages right now, is focusing on upgrading the output of Exelon's existing plants. ''I believe that there is little opening for new nuclear plants in the near future,'' he said. ''But that view has come from economics, not from safety.''
Christopher M. Crane, Exelon's president and chief operating officer, said that American plants had several design features that he did not believe were present at Fukushima Daiichi, including a system to control hydrogen buildup and a hardened vent system to safely remove such gas from the building, both of which would help prevent the type of explosions that apparently occurred in Japan.
In addition, diesel fuel for the emergency generators at American plants is generally kept in buried tanks so it cannot be swept away, as it was in Japan.
None of the 10 Exelon plant sites is in a zone of high seismic activity, the company said. Its only unit near the coast is Oyster Creek, on Barnegat Bay, in central New Jersey, and that plant is 23 feet above sea level and five miles from the ocean.
The effect of the Fukushima disaster on the American nuclear renaissance is hard to measure. Existing plants will most likely face new rules, but the financial impact is still unknown.
As for new reactors, their near-term prospects were already quite limited in the United States. The most advanced project is the Southern Company's Vogtle 3 and 4 units, near Augusta, Ga. The utility has broken ground there, and expects to receive a combined construction and operating license later this year. It is building a new model of reactor that is expected to receive approval by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission later this year despite the events in Japan. Two days after the tsunami, Southern said it ''remains committed to completing the new Vogtle units on schedule and on budget.''
''Japan is seismically very active and the Vogtle site is not,'' the company said. And Southern's plant is 130 miles from the coast, at an elevation of 220 feet, and thus not likely to see a tsunami.
Across the river in from Augusta in South Carolina, South Carolina Electric and Gas is moving ahead with two reactors at its V. C. Summer site. Kevin B. Marsh, the president of the company's parent, Scana, noted that the site was not seismically active and was 400 feet above sea level.
''Our intent is to remain on schedule,'' he said. One complication is that Scana's partner, Santee Cooper, is seeking to sell power or part of its ownership stake.
NRG is seeking to add two new reactors at its South Texas Project with a partner, Toshiba. But NRG said on Tuesday that it was ''reducing the scope of development'' to give the Nuclear Regulatory Commission time to assess the lessons from Japan.
While NRG said it did not expect any changes in the design it planned to use, it faces other issues. Last May, Tokyo Electric Power Company, which owns Fukushima Daiichi, took a 9 percent stake in the Texas project and said it might increase that to 18 percent. It is unclear whether the Japanese company can still afford the American commitment given the multibillion-dollar cost of the Japan disaster.
Even before that crisis, the South Texas Project was having trouble lining up customers to agree to buy power -- a crucial requirement of the Energy Department before it will guarantee the construction loan.
The final project in the advanced stage of planning, an additional reactor at Calvert Cliffs, Md., about 60 miles from Washington, stalled last year. Constellation Energy, which owns the first two reactors at Calvert Cliffs, was in a partnership with Electricite de France to build the third reactor, but Constellation pulled out after complaining that the government's fee for a loan guarantee was too high. The French utility then said it would seek another partner.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Exelon's Oyster Creek Generating Station in Forked River, N.J., is 23 feet above sea level and five miles from the Atlantic Ocean. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (94%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); POWER PLANTS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); TSUNAMIS (73%); EARTHQUAKES (73%); DIESEL FUEL (62%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CO (84%)

TICKER: SO (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: JOHN W ROWE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (75%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (91%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



583 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: ConAgra's Quarterly Profit Fell as Its Costs Rose

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
OMAHA (AP) -- ConAgra Foods, the maker of Healthy Choice and Chef Boyardee products, said on Thursday that its quarterly income fell 6 percent as a result of rising costs. 
ConAgra said it earned $214.8 million, or 50 cents a share, in the period, down from $229.6 million, or 51 cents a share, a year earlier, but better than the 46 cents expected by analysts surveyed by FactSet.
''While inflationary pressures continue to build and difficult conditions persist, we expect our performance to continue to benefit from pricing actions under way, strong supply chain cost savings and other profit-enhancing initiatives,'' the chief executive, Gary M. Rodkin, said in a statement.
Revenue in ConAgra's third quarter, which ended Feb. 27, climbed 4 percent, to $3.15 billion from $3.04 billion, surpassing Wall Street's forecast of $3.12 billion.
Revenue for the consumer foods division, two-thirds of ConAgra's business, climbed to $2.08 billion, from $2.03 billion.
Among ConAgra's strongest-performing brands were Banquet, Peter Pan, Healthy Choice, Hebrew National and Slim Jim. ConAgra said price increases should become more apparent in the current quarter's results.
The commercial foods unit reported its revenue rose to $1.07 billion from $996.1 million, helped by higher selling prices in its flour milling operations. The segment also benefited from volume growth for its Lamb Weston specialty potato products.
The division accounted for 34 percent of ConAgra's total third-quarter revenue.
Stock in ConAgra, which is based in Omaha, was unchanged in early trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (68%); EXECUTIVES (54%); FLOUR MILLING (50%)

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (97%)

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (97%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (97%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (97%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (97%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (97%)

PERSON: GARY M RODKIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (89%) NEBRASKA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



584 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Fed to Take a Step Out From Behind the Veil

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Ben S. Bernanke will become the first Federal Reserve chairman to hold regular news conferences as he seeks to improve the central bank's image.
Mr. Bernanke plans to formally meet the news media four times each year, after selected meetings of the Fed's policy-making committee, the Fed said Thursday. The first briefing, which will be broadcast online, is set for April 27.
The decision is a significant gesture by an institution that has made a policy of not speaking clearly -- often, not speaking at all -- since its founding in 1913. But the heated, widespread criticism of its response to the financial crisis has forced the Fed to a recognition that it is ultimately a political institution, and that it must do a better job of building public support. 
''I think monetary policy will be better if they face questions,'' said Gregory Hess, an economics professor at Claremont McKenna College. ''When they make decisions they should have to explain those decisions and hear questions and get feedback.''
The Fed was created as an independent arm of the government to insulate its decisions about monetary policy from popular pressure. Under no obligation to speak with the public, its leaders for almost a century have seen little point in doing so. Indeed, a consensus developed that a lack of clarity increased its power, by making it harder for investors to anticipate its decisions.
Mr. Bernanke's predecessors held public news conferences only for extraordinary purposes, such as in 1979, when Paul A. Volcker convened reporters on a Saturday night to announce that the Fed was raising its benchmark interest rate by a full percentage point.
Not until 1994 did the Fed begin to regularly announce changes in its benchmark interest rate. Until then, the central bank let its actions speak for themselves.
''The Fed has moved reluctantly from a tradition of central banking which was, 'It's none of your business what we do,' '' said Allan H. Meltzer, a professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University and author of a definitive history of the institution. ''This is incompatible with a modern democratic political arrangement, and so they've slowly been pulled into telling people what they do.''
In addition to political pressure, evidence also began to accumulate that greater clarity increased the stability of financial markets. A decade after it started releasing statements, the Fed decided in 2004 to release the minutes of its meeting more quickly, rather than wait for the next meeting.
Alan Greenspan, Mr. Bernanke's predecessor, even took questions from the media on a few occasions, though he made clear he was no fan of clarity.
''Since I've become a central banker, I've learned to mumble with great coherence,'' Mr. Greenspan said during one of those rare sessions. ''If I seem unduly clear to you, you must have misunderstood what I said.''
The 2008 financial crisis thrust the Fed into the limelight, making it impossible for Mr. Bernanke to sustain such stonewalling. Congress passed a law last year requiring the Fed to publish information about the recipients of emergency aid. Federal courts ordered the central bank to disclose information about its activities during the crisis.
Mr. Bernanke has publicly embraced this new world.
''Central banks should be as transparent as possible, both for reasons of democratic accountability and because many of our policies are likely to be more effective if they are well understood by the markets and the public,'' he said in 2009.
He has twice sat for interviews on ''60 Minutes.'' He has twice spoken and fielded questions at the National Press Club. In 2009, he held a televised ''town hall meeting'' in Kansas City, Mo., answering audience questions.
''The introduction of regular press briefings is intended to further enhance the clarity and timeliness of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy communication,'' the Fed said in a statement. Mr. Bernanke will present the central bank's economic projections and explain the context of policy decisions, it said.
Mr. Bernanke and other Fed governors already offer accounts of their thinking in regular speeches. Mr. Bernanke also appears regularly to answer questions from Congress, and the Fed is unusually diligent among federal agencies in its efforts to educate reporters about its policies. Selected reporters have regular access to officials, although the Fed almost always insists that the conversations not be quoted.
Still, experts said moving those conversations to a public forum could transform the Fed's relationship with Americans, fostering understanding of its policies and giving people a sense of ownership in its decisions.
''If you had a marriage and six times a year you gave 100-word pronouncements, it wouldn't be a very happy or successful marriage,'' Professor Hess said. ''I think this will lead to an increase in public understanding of monetary policy.''
Some investors, however, expressed skepticism that the briefings would provide meaningful clarity. The markets, they said, are really concerned with just one thing: which way are interest rates going to move?
And that is one question Mr. Bernanke remains unlikely to answer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); WRITERS (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%); WEBCASTS (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



585 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Buffett and Gates Prod India's Wealthy to Be More Philanthropic

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS and VIKAS BAJAJ; Heather Timmons reported from New Delhi and Vikas Bajaj from Mumbai, India.

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- India is behind only the United States and China in its number of billionaires. But by global standards, its charitable giving is miserly.
A few wealthy American philanthropists -- Bill and Melinda Gates and Warren E. Buffett -- are hoping to change that, one rich Indian at a time.
The three Americans met behind closed doors with about 70 of India's wealthiest people Thursday afternoon at the Taj Majal hotel here, for a ''giving discussion'' meant to start gently preaching the gospel of philanthropy. 
''It is not a case where we passed around a tin cup or had a signup list,'' Mr. Gates said at a crowded news conference afterward. ''Anything these people do will be their choice.''
None of the attendees Thursday, which included many of India's top business families, pledged immediately to give away most of their fortunes, as the Gateses and Mr. Buffett have done.
But Mr. Buffett predicted that the meeting would eventually have an effect.
''I would be almost certain'' that philanthropy increases in India over the next decade, Mr. Buffett said at the news conference. ''The people in that room drew strength and conviction from hearing others talk,'' he said. While India is home to more than 50 billionaires, the level of philanthropic giving is far lower than in the developed world.
Although nearly every major company or prominent business executive has a pet charity or donates to a cause, the overall portion of income given away is low.
The discrepancy can be glaring in India, which has the most poor people in the world. About 40 percent of its 1.2 billion people live below the World Bank's poverty line of $1.25 a day, and there are staggering rates of malnutrition and preventable diseases.
''Philanthropy in India so far has been what we call feel-good philanthropy, instead of outcome or results-based philanthropy,'' said Parth J. Shah, the president of the Centre for Civil Society, a New Delhi research organization. People give money to temples, or establish schools or hospitals, he said, but they tend not to focus on the impact of what they have set up or how that impact could be multiplied.
Charitable donations in India make up about 0.6 percent of the country's gross domestic product, well below the 2.2 percent in the United States, according to a study by Bain management consultants. And government and foreign contributors make up the majority of donations in India, with individuals and charities donating just 10 percent of the total, according to Bain.
Still, the Bain report showed that India gave more as a percentage of its G.D.P. than Brazil (0.3 percent) or China (0.1 percent).
Bill and Melinda Gates and Mr. Buffett introduced the Giving Pledge last year in the United States, and 59 wealthy American families have since promised to give half or more of their wealth to philanthropic activities.
In September, Mr. Gates and Mr. Buffett held an event with China's richest to encourage donations, to a lukewarm reception. Only about two-thirds of the invitees attended. Preparations for Thursday's meeting seemed intended to lower expectations. The event was named the ''Giving Discussion,'' the guest list was closely guarded, and a press release afterward said that Mr. Buffett and the Gateses had ''stressed that India would find its own unique approach'' to charity.
''In neither China nor India were we coming asking people to make any kind of commitment,'' Mr. Gates said during the news conference.
Many Indian billionaires have not been big givers partly because the country does not have large, well-run foundations and charities that could absorb hundreds of millions or billions of dollars in donations, said Jayant Sinha. He heads the India office of Omidyar Network, a philanthropic investment firm set up by Pierre Omidyar, the French-born Iranian-American founder of eBay.
Some of India's richest men like Azim Premji, chairman of the technology company Wipro, have set up their own foundations. Mr. Premji recently gave his nonprofit organization shares in Wipro worth $2 billion to start a university and to help government-run schools in rural towns and villages. Shiv Nadar, a founder of another company, HCL Technologies, has also started an education-focused foundation.
''There are now some good examples of where people have put their money to very effective purposes, but they have had to work hard on the professionalization and the institutionalization of their philanthropic arms,'' Mr. Sinha said. ''There is no point giving it away if you can't apply it well.''
Furthermore, Mr. Sinha said, many of India's billionaires have earned their wealth relatively recently and are still actively managing businesses. That helps explain why many have not yet begun to give much away or establish robust philanthropic organizations.
For that matter, it was only after Mr. Gates stepped back from the day-to-day running of Microsoft that he and his wife became global philanthropists.
Older and more established Indian business families have focused more intently on philanthropy. Companies that are part of India's largest conglomerate, the Tata Group, for instance, are partly owned by charitable trusts started by the Tata family. The trusts use the dividends they earn from Tata companies to support charities and social programs across the country.
An earlier generation of the Tata family also founded several of India's most prestigious universities, including the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in Mumbai.
But many of those institutions were established several decades, or even a century, ago, and the current generation of wealthy Indians has not matched the ambition of those earlier efforts, experts say.
Bill and Melinda Gates and Mr. Buffett have been criticized by other billionaires for their charitable impulses. On Thursday, for example, Mr. Buffett shrugged off one such critic, fielding a question about the telecommunications billionaire Carlos Slim Helu's widely reported remark that creating jobs was more important than playing Santa Claus.
''You can create jobs and be Santa Claus at the same time,'' Mr. Buffett said, laughing. ''I mean, he employs 12 elves.''
Turning serious, he said, ''When I give away my Berkshire Hathaway shares, they have no utility to me and great utility to others, and Berkshire Hathaway has all the money to invest that it has had before.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill and Melinda Gates, right, visited underprivileged people near Patna, India, on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AFTAB ALAM SIDDIQUI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (93%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); CHARITIES (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MALNUTRITION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (91%); WARREN BUFFETT (91%); MELINDA GATES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%) BIHAR, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



586 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Strong Software Sales Drive Oracle's Profit Up 78%

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Oracle, the business software maker, reported yet another quarter of strong gains on Thursday, as corporate spending on its software accelerated in a more robust economy.
The fiscal third-quarter results extend Oracle's winning streak of growth and potentially signals a more friendly environment for other big technology companies after the recent recession and subsequent slow comeback.
''You can't separate Oracle's results from the overall environment,'' said Kevin Buttigieg, an analyst with Collins Stewart. ''The demand for tech spending remains very strong.'' 
Oracle is among the first major technology companies to report earnings after Japan's earthquake and tsunami two weeks ago. Although the earthquake came after its quarter ended Feb. 28, it was a major topic of discussion during Oracle's conference call with analysts on Thursday.
Wall Street is trying to gauge the effect of the disaster on companies that do business there. Less than 5 percent of Oracle's revenue comes from Japan, however.
Safra A. Catz, Oracle's co-president, cautioned that it remained early, but that ''we don't expect a material impact'' from the earthquake on sales in the current quarter.
She does not believe there would be any problems getting supplies, unlike other companies that rely on factories that have been damaged or are dealing with rolling blackouts.
''Good news in general,'' Ms. Catz said.
Lawrence J. Ellison, Oracle's chief executive, who is normally on the company's quarterly conference call was absent this time because he was serving on a jury.
Oracle, based in Redwood City, Calif., is considered by Wall Street to be a bellwether for technology spending by large corporations. Unlike some of its peers, Oracle has emerged from the economic downturn in relatively good health and is trying to take market share from its rivals like I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard.
Oracle reported gains in its main business of selling and maintaining corporate software. New software license sales, a good indicator of future revenue from maintenance fees, were up 29 percent, to $2.2 billion. Software license updates and product support sales grew 13 percent, to $3.7 billion.
Anyone looking for a complex explanation for the increased sales would be disappointed. Ms. Catz explained that Oracle landed new customers and enticed existing customers to buy more.
Oracle used the economic downturn to expand beyond software into selling computer servers through its acquisition of Sun Microsystems last year. Hardware sales in the quarter were $1 billion, but there is no comparable year-ago number because the acquisition was completed in the middle of the quarter.
Sun's server business was in decline when Oracle bought it. Oracle has started selling those servers loaded with its database software. The initiative, Exadata, is an important focus for Oracle, which hopes it will win customers from its competitors.
Revenue from the previous quarter for Exadata, and its close cousin, Exalogic, were up 50 percent, the company said.
Oracle said income for its overall business rose 78 percent to $2.12 billion, or 41 cents a share, from $1.19 billion, or 23 cents a share, a year earlier. The company said revenue climbed 37 percent, to $8.76 billion from $6.4 billion.
Excluding one-time items, profit was 54 cents a share, above the 50 cents expected by Wall Street analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters. Sales also topped
the forecast for $8.67 billion.
Oracle predicted continued growth. Revenue in the fourth quarter is expected to rise 9 percent to 13 percent, while net profit is expected to be 56 cents to 60 cents a share.
Oracle's shares rose 2.32 percent, to close at $32.14 in regular trading on Thursday. In after-hours trading, shares were more than 3 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Safra A. Catz, Oracle's co-president, said the company did not ''expect a material impact'' from the earthquake in Japan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NETWORK SERVERS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (78%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TSUNAMIS (74%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); SALES & SELLING (71%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (68%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (64%); POWER FAILURES (50%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); COLLINS STEWART HAWKPOINT PLC (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (51%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: SAFRA A CATZ (89%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



587 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Lobbyists' Long Effort to Revive Nuclear Industry Faces New Test

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- One flash point in the remarkable revival of interest in nuclear energy here -- a revival now threatened by the calamity in Japan -- came almost by accident at a late-night brainstorming session in a senator's office in 1997.
Pete V. Domenici, then a Republican senator from New Mexico, was looking for an issue to claim as his own. One staff member, a former scientist at the Los Alamos nuclear lab, tossed out an idea that seemed dead on arrival: a renewed commitment to nuclear energy.
''Are you serious?'' Mr. Domenici remembers asking the aide incredulously. After Three Mile Island and Chernobyl, nuclear energy had fallen into disfavor, development had stalled, and many politicians ran from the issue like it was a toxic cloud.
But with industry backing, Mr. Domenici overcame his skepticism and became one of the driving forces in a decade-long renaissance of nuclear energy -- a resurgence that began in earnest under President George W. Bush and has led President Obama to seek a $36 billion expansion in loan guarantees to finance reactors at a time when other programs are being slashed. 
Now, however, the future of nuclear energy in the United States is in doubt, with advocates on all sides bracing for a fierce debate over whether the disaster in Japan should slow or even derail the planned expansion of America's 104 nuclear reactors.
Mr. Obama has shown no sign of backing away -- a testament to the success of an expensive multiyear campaign by the nuclear energy industry, advocates in Congress and the executive branch.
Nuclear executives, girding for a fight, have already held 20 briefings for Washington lawmakers and others about the events in Japan and the potential lessons learned at home. They have been putting out guidance on increased safeguards for reactors, and giving reporters tours of nuclear plants.
The message: Despite the events in Japan, nuclear is a safe, affordable and ''clean'' energy source that does not spew harmful carbons into the environment or rely on foreign producers.
''We surely should avoid a rush to judgment,'' Jeff Merrifield, a former member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, said in one of a series of videos that the Nuclear Energy Institute, the leading trade group, has put out on its Web site since this month's tsunami crippled Japan's reactors. The United States, he said, should ''continue to move forward with building those plants because it's the right thing for our nation.''
But with polls in the last two weeks showing dimmed support for nuclear power, opponents are hoping to use the events in Japan to slow the industry's political momentum and challenge what the industry maintains is a long record of safety.
''The risk is just so great if there's a screw-up,'' said David Hamilton, director of energy programs for the Sierra Club, which opposes the expansion of nuclear energy. ''The nuclear renaissance was already hanging by a thread, and the Japanese disaster may have cut the thread.''
But even the critics acknowledge that the industry's backers have managed to jump-start nuclear energy in a way that few thought possible a decade ago.
One turning point, people on both sides of the issue agree, was that proponents took advantage of the public concern over climate change and carbon-producing fuels beginning in the early 2000s and were able to recast themselves -- first to fence-sitting lawmakers, then to the public as a whole -- as a ''clean'' alternative that would not harm the environment.
''It was a brilliant campaign,'' said Tyson Slocum, an energy expert at Public Citizen, which opposes nuclear energy because of concerns about its safety, security and cost.
''While everyone was focused on shutting down coal plants, they had a couple of years to themselves to just talk to the American public in very sophisticated ad campaigns and to reintroduce a generation of Americans to nuclear power,'' he said. ''That was very powerful.''
Nuclear industry firms and their employees also contributed more than $4.6 million in the last decade to members of Congress -- both Republicans and Democrats, including Mr. Obama, then a senator, and his presidential campaign -- as the industry's political fortunes were rising, according to an analysis by MAPLight.org, a Washington research group that tracks money and politics.
And the industry has spent tens of millions more lately on lobbying. Last year, electric utilities, trade groups and other backers spent $54 million hiring lobbyists, including former members of Congress, to make their case, according to a separate analysis by the Sunlight Foundation, which also tracks money and politics.
As a senator, Mr. Domenici was a big beneficiary of the industry's largess, collecting more than $1.25 million over his 20-year career from political donors affiliated with the energy sector.
Months after he committed himself to promoting nuclear energy, he gave a talk on the topic in 1997 at Harvard University called ''A New Nuclear Paradigm.'' Nuclear energy proponents called it a seminal moment in the shift of public opinion.
''I wanted to put nuclear power in its proper perspective,'' said Mr. Domenici, who left the Senate in 2009 and serves as a senior fellow at the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington.
''You have this resource just sitting there saying, 'Are you going to use me or not?' '' Mr. Domenici said in an interview last week. ''People were stirring up fears of another Three Mile Island, but I believe the reality of nuclear power has now become much better known.''
Mr. Domenici's position as a senior member of both the Senate Energy and Appropriations Committees gave him a particularly influential role in helping the industry. He was at Mr. Bush's side in 2005, when the president signed a major bill that encouraged the building of new nuclear plants. Work has now begun on four new plants.
Mr. Domenici's former aides have gone on to play critical roles in the debate as well.
Pete Lyons, a nuclear scientist and the former Domenici aide who first suggested the nuclear energy idea to the senator at his 1997 brainstorming session, went on to serve on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and has been nominated by Mr. Obama to run the Energy Department's civilian nuclear program. Alex Flint, another Domenici aide at the meeting, now is the chief federal lobbyist for the Nuclear Energy Institute. And a third aide at the meeting, Steve Bell, assists Mr. Domenici's work on a presidential panel on nuclear waste.
Mr. Flint said the senator's staff did not expect to succeed when Mr. Domenici began proposing modest appropriations for nuclear research and programming in the late 1990s.
''We were going against the conventional wisdom,'' Mr. Flint said. ''We expected a pushback, but we didn't get it. And it just grew from there.''
Within the Energy Department, meanwhile, a 2003 study by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on the future of nuclear energy helped forge a consensus within the government, even among skeptical policy makers, officials said. The study concluded that while nuclear power was facing ''stagnation and decline,'' it should remain an important way to provide carbon-free energy at relatively low cost.
''That really moved my thinking, and that kind of analysis was very influential,'' said Daniel B. Poneman, deputy secretary at the Energy Department.
Today, there is no doubt about where the Energy Department stands.
Its Web site extols the value of nuclear energy as providing ''low-cost, carbon-free electricity to help drive the American economy and preserve the environment,'' and it even includes a special page for children called ''the Power Pack,'' featuring a sci-fi journey through nuclear energy.
For critics urging a go-slow approach to building reactors, the enthusiasm is all a bit much.
''The industry has really embedded itself in the political establishment,'' said Mr. Slocum at Public Citizen. ''They've had reliable friends from George Bush to Barack Obama, and the government has really just become cheerleaders for the industry.''
Whether events in Japan change the political calculus in Washington ''is what everyone is waiting to see,'' he said. ''We don't want to be seen as exploiting a tragedy, but it's prudent to talk about the implications here. The best and the brightest can't see around every corner.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pete V. Domenici, left, with Brent Scowcroft, center, and Lee Hamilton, all members of a panel studying nuclear energy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); LOBBYING (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POWER PLANTS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); POLITICS (76%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); WEB SITES (50%)

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); UKRAINE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



588 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; VIDEO GAME REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Defending America, the Underdog

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
When it comes to our national self-image, humility gave way to hubris long ago.
Politicians not only proclaim the United States the greatest society the world has known, but say that it will remain so forever. Few leaders give voice to the notion of decline even as it becomes quite plausible to some of us.
Thankfully, that's what we have artists for: to challenge and force us to face our darkest fears. And that's why we have video games like Homefront. 
Written by John Milius, a screenwriter of ''Apocalypse Now'' and ''Red Dawn,'' Homefront conveys a chilling, gripping, not entirely ludicrous version of America's fall. Strictly as a game -- mechanically, technically -- Homefront is pedestrian. But as a provocative, emotionally involving and politically relevant creative experience, it is vital. Were it a film, Homefront might already be a topic of national discussion.
What follows is a description of the future as imagined in the game, developed in New York by Kaos Studios and released recently by THQ for Windows, Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3.
2012: The United States begins a military withdrawal from Iraq and the rest of the Middle East. North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-il, dies and is succeeded by his son Kim Jong-un.
2013: Saudi Arabia ramps up its militarization and begins to square off against Iran for control in the Middle East. Oil markets roil. Kim Jong-un begins reunification talks with South Korea and ignites a wave of anti-Americanism across Asia. The American military withdraws from South Korea.
2014: General Motors declares bankruptcy again. American department stores and consumers experience scarcity for the first time in decades.
2015: Korea is unified, and Kim Jong-un is elected president.
2016: Iraq is riven by sectarian violence. Iran declares that Saudi Arabia has turned Iraq into a ''client state'' and invades in the face of what it calls ''unacceptable Saudi intervention.'' In the United States gasoline tops $12 a gallon. Thousands of Americans freeze to death that winter amid nationwide energy shortages. The United States withdraws its forces from Asia.
2017: As tax revenue declines, the American economy continues to falter under the weight of the nation's crushing debt. Black markets in gasoline emerge. Without regular outside supplies of electricity and food, major cities become unlivable. Japan erupts in conflict between natives and ethnic Koreans. Kim Jong-un promises to protect Koreans in Japan.
2018: Korea declares war against Japan. Korean special forces sabotage a Japanese nuclear power plant, causing a meltdown and a huge radiation leak. Japan capitulates to Korean occupation. Iran and Malaysia, among other nations, congratulate Kim Jong-un.
2019: Korea begins to use Japanese infrastructure to produce nuclear weapons. American cities descend into chaos.
2020: Korea provides commando units to help Iranian forces operating in Iraq.
2021: Malaysia joins Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand in the Greater Korean Republic, with Cambodia and Vietnam on the doorstep. An Asian H5N1 influenza pandemic strikes the United States.
2023: A Korean peacekeeping mission in Nigeria is declared a success, cementing Korea's global stature.
Soon Korea detonates an electromagnetic pulse weapon over the United States, essentially destroying the national electronic fabric. The Mississippi River is irradiated, dividing the country. Mexico closes its borders to American refugees, and the military of the Greater Korean Republic eventually invades and occupies Western states.
Which is where you come in. As Homefront begins, in 2027, you are inducted into the Resistance in Colorado. Western America has become an occupied wasteland of the Korean military, devastated suburban tracts and pockets of crazed survivalists.
The basic shooting and combat mechanisms in Homefront are standard fare. And the main single-player story campaign is brief, perhaps five hours at most, though the multiplayer modes are surprisingly engaging.
What makes Homefront stand out from all the other shooting games is its setting and its ambition to grapple with a vision of what could happen in the real world if absolutely everything were to go wrong. When you see images of bulldozers pushing around mounds of American corpses, citizens in an internment camp in what used to be a high school football stadium and the twisted wreckage of a suburban White Castle or Hooters restaurant, you feel an emotional connection to the action that simply doesn't accompany a science-fiction game set on a faraway planet.
When Mr. Milius worked on ''Red Dawn'' in the 1980s, few people really thought that Soviet troops were about to occupy a small town in the Rockies. And maybe no one thinks a unified Korea is about to take over San Francisco.
And yet I can't imagine what the social and political fallout would be if some company had invested the millions of dollars required to make a film or TV mini-series out of Homefront's vision. And I'm not sure a whole lot of people would really want to watch it, because it is disturbing.
And it is disturbing because as unpalatable as it may be, the inkling that America might not necessarily be the most important place in the world forever is finally sinking into our national consciousness.
No matter what the politicians say.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Homefront: American forces try to take back the Golden Gate Bridge in this video game from THQ. (C1)
 A scene from Homefront, which is set in a vanquished America. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THQ) (C16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); POLITICS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (83%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); WRITERS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (65%); RETAILERS (63%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (62%); POWER PLANTS (60%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (60%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: KIM JONG UN (89%); KIM JONG IL (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

TITLE: Homefront (Video Game)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



589 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 25, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: N.Y.C. vs. N.Y.S., the Pension Battle

 BODY:
Mayor Michael Bloomberg wants New York City to take control of its own business back from Albany, especially pension costs.
The city negotiates wages and health benefits directly with its employees' unions. But since the 1970s fiscal crisis -- when Albany took over the city's finances -- the State Legislature and the governor have dealt with the city's pension benefits. The way it usually works, the mayor negotiates a pension deal, which state lawmakers approve and then later ''sweeten'' for their friends in the unions.
Albany is notoriously compliant when it comes to demands from the powerful unions that represent the state's public employees, which is one of the reasons the state is in such deep fiscal trouble. Legislators have been even more generous to city employees because the city, not the state, pays for their generosity. 
Unless New York City gets relief, the spiraling pension burden will cripple the city's finances for years to come. The city's contributions to the pension fund -- for 293,000 employees and about 235,000 retirees -- have risen from $1.5 billion in 2001 to an estimated $8.4 billion next year. Payouts to retirees have nearly doubled from $6.6 billion in 2002 to more than $11 billion this year.
Those breathtaking numbers have several drivers, including Mr. Bloomberg's own willingness to repeatedly raise city workers' salaries, especially for teachers, which raises pension costs. The recession also pushed down pension fund earnings, requiring an increase in city contributions. And retirees are living longer.
But city officials estimate that from 1996 to 2009, the Legislature has added $1.7 billion to the city's annual pension benefits. The costs would be even higher if governors had not vetoed hundreds of other sweeteners.
If Mayor Bloomberg wrestles back control from Albany, the immediate savings for the city's budget would be relatively small. Under the state's Constitution, previously approved pension deals cannot be renegotiated.
But with control, Mr. Bloomberg could immediately -- without negotiations -- cancel year-end bonuses for new retirees at a savings of $200 million in this next fiscal year. He also wants to negotiate new pension tiers for newly hired workers. The mayor's budget experts estimate their proposal could save $1 billion over the next eight years in pension costs.
The list of Albany's pension ''sweeteners'' -- and the shabby political deal-making behind them -- is long and well documented. In 2000, an election year, the Legislature agreed to annual cost-of-living increases for retirees that currently mean an additional $696 million annual payout. A second law that same year cost $406 million annually. It allowed nonuniformed city workers and teachers to stop contributing to their pensions after the first 10 years of employment. That law also allowed many police officers and firefighters to calculate their pensions based on their final year's earnings -- including sudden, last-minute bursts of overtime -- instead of the average of their earnings in their final three years. The law also forced the city to double its share of extra pension contributions for the uniforms from 2.5 percent to 5 percent.
Then there are the ''heart bills,'' which automatically presume that a serious illness is caused by the job. With disability benefits, a city worker can often retire with 75 percent of pay instead of about 50 percent, a costly difference.
For all of his tough talk, Mr. Bloomberg's own record on pensions has not always been stellar. In 2009, when Albany introduced a less generous pension plan for new state employees, the mayor, who was running for re-election, did not push hard to get the city's new workers included. Now safely in his third and last term, Mr. Bloomberg sounds serious. His new tiers for new employees would be tougher than the state's 2009 pension plan.
He has proposed allowing new teachers and nonuniformed employees to be vested after 10 years instead of the current five. And they would have to wait until after age 65 to receive benefits, not the current 55 to 57. (The state puts retirement at 62 in most cases.) Overtime would not count toward the final salary calculation the way it often does now, and pensions would be based on an average of the last three years of salary, with overtime no longer included.
The mayor is also calling for a similarly tough new tier for new uniformed employees -- police, fire and sanitation workers. And he wants to end the ''heart bills'' and cancel those year-end bonuses -- currently worth up to $12,000 -- for new retirees.
These are undeniably stricter terms. But given the current fiscal crisis, and the spiraling pension burden, they seem sensible and fair.
Gov. Andrew Cuomo has argued for less costly pension terms for new workers, but he has not said anything about returning control to the city. He should push the Legislature to do what Mayor Bloomberg is asking. This would not cost the state an extra dime. And it would put the political responsibility of negotiating with the city's workers where it belongs: back in New York City.
This is part of a series of editorials about the fiscal crisis in New York State and in other states around the country. You can read all of these articles at: nytimes.com/fiscalcrisis.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: WITHIN OUR MEANS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); VETO (79%); COST OF LIVING (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011



590 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Losing Our Way

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
So here we are pouring shiploads of cash into yet another war, this time in Libya, while simultaneously demolishing school budgets, closing libraries, laying off teachers and police officers, and generally letting the bottom fall out of the quality of life here at home.
Welcome to America in the second decade of the 21st century. An army of long-term unemployed workers is spread across the land, the human fallout from the Great Recession and long years of misguided economic policies. Optimism is in short supply. The few jobs now being created too often pay a pittance, not nearly enough to pry open the doors to a middle-class standard of living. 
Arthur Miller, echoing the poet Archibald MacLeish, liked to say that the essence of America was its promises. That was a long time ago. Limitless greed, unrestrained corporate power and a ferocious addiction to foreign oil have led us to an era of perpetual war and economic decline. Young people today are staring at a future in which they will be less well off than their elders, a reversal of fortune that should send a shudder through everyone.
The U.S. has not just misplaced its priorities. When the most powerful country ever to inhabit the earth finds it so easy to plunge into the horror of warfare but almost impossible to find adequate work for its people or to properly educate its young, it has lost its way entirely.
Nearly 14 million Americans are jobless and the outlook for many of them is grim. Since there is just one job available for every five individuals looking for work, four of the five are out of luck. Instead of a land of opportunity, the U.S. is increasingly becoming a place of limited expectations. A college professor in Washington told me this week that graduates from his program were finding jobs, but they were not making very much money, certainly not enough to think about raising a family.
There is plenty of economic activity in the U.S., and plenty of wealth. But like greedy children, the folks at the top are seizing virtually all the marbles. Income and wealth inequality in the U.S. have reached stages that would make the third world blush. As the Economic Policy Institute has reported, the richest 10 percent of Americans received an unconscionable 100 percent of the average income growth in the years 2000 to 2007, the most recent extended period of economic expansion.
Americans behave as if this is somehow normal or acceptable. It shouldn't be, and didn't used to be. Through much of the post-World War II era, income distribution was far more equitable, with the top 10 percent of families accounting for just a third of average income growth, and the bottom 90 percent receiving two-thirds. That seems like ancient history now.
The current maldistribution of wealth is also scandalous. In 2009, the richest 5 percent claimed 63.5 percent of the nation's wealth. The overwhelming majority, the bottom 80 percent, collectively held just 12.8 percent.
This inequality, in which an enormous segment of the population struggles while the fortunate few ride the gravy train, is a world-class recipe for social unrest. Downward mobility is an ever-shortening fuse leading to profound consequences.
A stark example of the fundamental unfairness that is now so widespread was in The New York Times on Friday under the headline: ''G.E.'s Strategies Let It Avoid Taxes Altogether.'' Despite profits of $14.2 billion -- $5.1 billion from its operations in the United States -- General Electric did not have to pay any U.S. taxes last year.
As The Times's David Kocieniewski reported, ''Its extraordinary success is based on an aggressive strategy that mixes fierce lobbying for tax breaks and innovative accounting that enables it to concentrate its profits offshore.''
G.E. is the nation's largest corporation. Its chief executive, Jeffrey Immelt, is the leader of President Obama's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness. You can understand how ordinary workers might look at this cozy corporate-government arrangement and conclude that it is not fully committed to the best interests of working people.
Overwhelming imbalances in wealth and income inevitably result in enormous imbalances of political power. So the corporations and the very wealthy continue to do well. The employment crisis never gets addressed. The wars never end. And nation-building never gets a foothold here at home.
New ideas and new leadership have seldom been more urgently needed.
This is my last column for The New York Times after an exhilarating, nearly 18-year run. I'm off to write a book and expand my efforts on behalf of working people, the poor and others who are struggling in our society. My thanks to all the readers who have been so kind to me over the years. I can be reached going forward at bobherbert88@gmail.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HISTORY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RECESSION (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); WRITERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011



591 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Growth More Robust Than Earlier Estimated

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The nation's economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, led by an increase in consumer spending.
The revised increase in gross domestic product compares with a 2.8 percent estimate issued last month, figures from the Commerce Department showed Friday. Earnings at financial companies led a 2.3 percent increase in corporate profits from October to December that capped the biggest annual gain in six decades. 
''The upward revisions are encouraging, though things are shaping up to be a bit of a disappointment this quarter,'' said Ryan Sweet, a senior economist at Moody's Analytics in West Chester, Pa. ''Consumer spending seems to be a little bit softer than we anticipated. We know we'll hit speed bumps, but the recovery will gather momentum through the year and into 2012.''
Another report showed consumer sentiment this month declined more than forecast as surging fuel prices squeezed household budgets. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment for March fell to 67.5, from 77.5 in February, the group reported.
For all of 2010, the economy expanded 2.9 percent, the most in five years, after shrinking 2.6 percent in 2009.
Consumer spending, about 70 percent of the economy, rose at a 4 percent pace last quarter, the most since the same three months in 2006, compared with 4.1 percent previously estimated and a 2.4 percent rate in the third quarter.
The upward revision to growth was paced by a bigger increase in business investment and a smaller slowdown in stockpiling than previously estimated.
In another report, the Labor Department said unemployment decreased in 27 states in February.
The jobless rate fell the most in Nevada, where it reached 13.6 percent, the figures showed. Thirty-five states showed gains in payrolls, led by California with a 96,500 increase and Pennsylvania, where employment climbed by 23,700.
North Dakota had the lowest unemployment in the nation, falling to a 3.7 percent rate from 3.8 percent the previous month. Nevada's jobless rate fell last month from 14.2 percent in January.
Unemployment rose in seven states, including Colorado, which reached a 9.3 percent rate in February, the highest for that state since record-keeping began in 1976.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Consumer spending at the end of 2010 led economic growth. Above, making steel at Lynchburg Steel in Monroe, Va. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM RAFF/THE NEWS & ADVANCE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Real Economic Growth: Annual rate of change in the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for inflation and seasonal fluctuations. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011



592 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: A Housing Market Cycle Different From Others

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
TO judge by the overall level of home sales in the United States, the housing market has stabilized at a level well below the peak period of 2005 and 2006 but still higher than the sales rates that characterized prosperous periods in the 1980s and 1990s. Still, few of those sales are of new homes and a rising proportion are forced sales of homes no longer worth the amount that was borrowed.
As can be seen in the accompanying chart, during the 12 months through February, about 46 homes were sold for every 1,000 households in the country. At the peak of the housing boom, that figure rose above 75, but the current level is significantly higher than the lows reached during the recessions of the early 1980s and early 1990s. 
The sales rate for existing homes -- about 4.9 million over the last 12 months -- is virtually the same as in mid-1999. Yet sales of newly built single-family homes have plunged to the lowest levels seen since the government began collecting statistics on such sales in 1963. The Census Bureau reported this week that only 17,000 new homes were sold in February, for an annual rate of 250,000 after taking seasonal factors into account. Both of those numbers are the lowest on record.
The February sales pace was undoubtedly depressed by harsh weather in the Northeast, and a rebound in March or April is possible. But the total number of homes sold over the 12-month period -- 349,000 -- is lower than in any comparable period.
As a result, this cycle has been very different from previous ones. Home sales plunged in the early 1980s, when a combination of severe recession and high interest rates devastated the housing business, and they also suffered in 1990 and 1991, another recessionary period. But in each of those recessions, sales of new and existing homes declined at about the same pace.
It was decreased demand that hurt sales in previous downturns. Now demand is down, in part because some would-be buyers cannot qualify for mortgages that would have been available during the boom. But oversupply is also a major problem now.
Too many houses were built in many areas during the boom, and now housing starts have plunged, as can be seen in the bottom chart. There are fewer newly built homes available, and in some areas, buyers complain that builders have not been willing to cut prices to meet the prices available on used homes in the same area.
But there is a large number of used homes available. The National Association of Realtors estimates that almost two of every five used homes sold in February were on the market because the previous owner was in trouble. It says 26 percent of sales were from foreclosures, and an additional 13 percent were ''short sales,'' in which the lender agrees to allow the homeowner to sell the home for less than the outstanding balance of the loan. Sellers often have little say in the timing of such sales, and are in a poor bargaining position.
The percentage of forced sales rose to nearly half of all sales in early 2009, at the height of the credit crisis, but fell to around 30 percent as the economy began to improve and banks imposed moratoriums on foreclosures. Now it is on the rise again, producing new pressures on prices and increased competition for home builders still trying to sell homes built in more optimistic times.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Total home sales stabilize . . .
. . . but new home sales keep falling . . .
 . . . and housing starts collapse (Sources: Census Bureau, Nat'l. Association of Realtors, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); FORECLOSURE (73%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); CENSUS (54%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011



593 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Markets Close Out a Good Week On a High Note

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks rose for the third consecutive day on Friday, capping the best week for the Dow Jones industrial average since July.
The government said the economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter of 2010, slightly better than economists had expected and higher than the estimate made last month.
Technology shares rose after the business software giant Oracle reported a 78 percent increase in income late Thursday. The company, which makes database software, credited new software license sales and the benefit of three full months of revenue from Sun Microsystems, a company it acquired last year. The Dow rose 50.03 points, or 0.41 percent, to close at 12,220.59. It gained 362 points for the week, the most since a 512-point jump during the week ending July 9. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.14 points, or 0.32 percent, to 1,313.80. The Nasdaq rose 6.64 points, or 0.24 percent, to 2,743.06.
All three stock indexes gained more than 2 percent for the week, helping them erase losses after the March 11 earthquake that hit Japan. The week started with a 178.01 point jump for the Dow after AT&T agreed to buy T-Mobile USA for $39 billion, raising hopes for more buyouts. Better economic reports and stronger earnings followed, driving more gains.
Investors were able to set aside a long list of worries including high oil prices, problems with Japan's nuclear reactors and fresh developments in Europe's debt crisis. Portugal looked likely to need bailout funds from the European Union after lawmakers rejected a plan to cut the country's debts and the government fell. Standard & Poor's lowered its credit rating on Portugal late Thursday.
Portugal's debt troubles aren't rattling stock investors in the United States because there's an assumption that the European Union will come to the country's aid, said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer of Harris Private Bank in Chicago. ''There's really this notion that governments stand ready in Europe or elsewhere to come to the rescue,'' he said.
There's also little incentive to shift money into the safest of investments, like bonds, Mr. Ablin said. The benchmark 10-year Treasury currently pays 3.4 percent a year. Even with a recent bout of turbulence, the Dow has gained 5.6 percent this year. ''In the short term, taking risk pays.''
The VIX, a measure of volatility for American stocks, fell 27 percent over the week. That's the biggest one-week drop since August 2007.
Accenture shares rose 4.5 percent, to $54.29. The consulting firm's quarterly earnings rose 22 percent on stronger revenue. Both its income and revenue beat analysts' expectations.
Research In Motion, the maker of the BlackBerry mobile device, fell 11 percent. Its profit jumped, but the company forecast earnings in the current quarter that were well below what analysts had expected.
The dollar rose and Treasury prices fell after Charles I. Plosser, president of the Federal Reserve's Philadelphia branch, said the stronger United States economy required the central bank to begin planning ways to sell Treasury bonds and raise short-term interest rates in the ''not-too-distant future.''
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 10/32, to 101 17/32, and the yield rose to 3.44 percent, from 3.40 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); EURO CRISIS (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (56%); EARTHQUAKES (52%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (84%); BMO HARRIS BANK NA (81%); ACCENTURE PLC (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (55%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (50%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); ACN (NYSE) (58%); RIM (TSX) (50%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (55%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); PORTUGAL (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011



594 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 505 words

PERSON: Emmett J. Rice 

HEADLINE: Emmett J. Rice, 91, a Former Fed Governor

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Emmett J. Rice, a former Federal Reserve governor, World Bank executive and adviser on economic development who helped Nigeria set up its banking system in the 1960s, died on March 10 at his home in Camas, Wash. He was 91. 
The cause was congestive heart failure, said his daughter, Susan E. Rice, the United States ambassador to the United Nations. .
President Jimmy Carter appointed Dr. Rice to the seven-member Federal Reserve board, which sets monetary policy and regulates the nation's banks, in April 1979. He was the second African-American named to the board, after Andrew F. Brimmer.
Serving under Paul A. Volcker, then the Fed chairman, Dr. Rice helped shape the nation's financial policy for eight years, through a recession and the savings and loan crisis. He directed the board's administrative team, then oversaw its international organizations and outreach programs. The latter duties were more in accord with his interests.
''My father was passionate about economic opportunity and development, not only in the United States but internationally,'' Ms. Rice said.
In the early 1950s, while an assistant in the economics department at the University of California, Berkeley, Dr. Rice received a Fulbright fellowship that took him to India, where he became a research associate at the Reserve Bank of India. His studies of economic development there became the basis for his doctoral dissertation.
After teaching at Berkeley and then Cornell, Dr. Rice took a sabbatical in 1960 to work as an economist for the Federal Reserve Bank in New York. But two years later, the United States Agency for International Development lured him to a post in newly independent Nigeria, where he lent his expertise to the creation of the Central Bank of Nigeria.
The Treasury Department then recruited Dr. Rice, naming him, in 1964, deputy director of its Office of Developing Nations, where he helped formulate financial policies affecting countries in Africa, Asia and the Middle East. That led, in 1966, to his appointment by President Lyndon B. Johnson as alternate director for the United States at the World Bank and, subsequently, acting director.
Emmett John Rice was born in Florence, S.C., on Dec. 21, 1919, the youngest of four children of Ulysses and Sue Pearl Rice. His father, a Methodist minister, died when he was a small child, and his mother became a schoolteacher. The family moved to Harlem when Emmett was 13. He received his bachelor's and master's degrees from City College, then was drafted into the Army Air Forces, rising to captain as a member of the Tuskegee Airmen. Besides his daughter, Dr. Rice is survived by a son, E. John Rice Jr., and four grandchildren. His marriage to Lois Dickson Rice ended in divorce.
The Depression shaped Dr. Rice's interest in economics. ''Twenty-five percent of the country was unemployed,'' he said in an oral history at Berkeley in 1991. ''I wanted to understand an economy which allowed this to happen.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Emmett J. Rice (PHOTOGRAPH BY BROOKS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BOARD CHANGES (76%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (75%); RECESSION (74%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%); HISTORY (65%); ARMED FORCES (63%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (57%); HEART DISEASE (57%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); RESERVE BANK OF INDIA (55%); CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (53%)

SUSAN RICE (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); FLORENCE, SC, USA (67%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (95%); NIGERIA (94%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFRICA (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011



595 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: EXTENDED FAMILY

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS -- Linda Howard and her husband raised 10 children in rural Connersville, Ind., on Stan Howard's salary as a mail carrier. Stan Howard has taken only one sick day in 33 years from his 10-mile route, and that day he was sent home against his will. The Howards lived in a three-bedroom house until Matt was about 5, with use of the lone bathroom designated by appointment.
''Can you imagine that with five sisters?'' said Howard, who is No. 8 of Linda and Stan's 10 kids. ''That's some intense sharing.''
Who knew that Howard's crowded childhood environment would be the perfect training to play basketball at Butler? With his bird's nest of hair and self-deprecating humor, the 6-foot-8 Howard has emerged as one of the faces of this N.C.A.A. tournament. He jokes that he and Butler may always lose the look test, but they still have not lost a game. Much of that is because of Howard's heady, relentless and clutch play, which has No. 8-seeded Butler on the cusp of its second consecutive Final Four. 
With a victory over No. 2 Florida on Saturday in the Southeast Region final, Butler would become the first team since Nevada-Las Vegas in 1990-91 to reach back-to-back Final Fours while playing outside one of the six power conferences. After the Bulldogs lost the star forward Gordon Hayward, the No. 9 pick in the N.B.A. draft last year, Howard has filled the roles of Butler's heartbeat and its star forward.
Point guard Ronald Nored says his teammates beg Howard to shoot more. Coach Brad Stevens keeps going back to his energy.
''I think Matt sets a tone of unselfishness with everything he does,'' Stevens said.
The country has been able to see Butler win games against No. 9 Old Dominion and No. 1 Pittsburgh on Howard's last-second shots, but his excellence does not come as a surprise to the people in Connersville.
In a town of about 13,000 people that lies 70 miles east of Indianapolis, where Butler is located, Howard is an icon. His summer basketball coach, Pat Mullin, said there was a Butler banner hanging from city hall proudly claiming that it was the hometown of Matt Howard. On Howard's senior night at Butler, more than 1,400 people -- over 10 percent of the town's population -- made the trip to Hinkle Fieldhouse.
''If you wanted to go rob Connersville that day, you could have; it was a ghost town,'' said Butler's associate head coach, Matthew Graves, who recruited Howard. ''That's how much Matt means to that community.''
Connersville used to be known as Little Detroit, with a bustling Ford factory, a robust population and a thriving local industry. Now Wal-Mart ranks among the biggest local employers, and the boarded-up downtown and high unemployment rate give it the feel of a struggling small town from a Bruce Springsteen song.
''Matt brings a hope for Connersville that shows if you work hard and do things the right way, you will be rewarded for it,'' said Rodney Klein, who coached Howard for four years at Connersville High School.
That has helped the town embrace Howard even more, and he hopes he has properly reciprocated the positive vibes. Klein recalled Howard's returning to Connersville to watch a game his freshman year at Butler, and a line snaking around the gymnasium for autographs. Klein said Howard essentially signed for four straight hours.
''Hopefully I've been able to bring something even close to that, which I can't imagine that I have,'' he said of the support Connersville had given him. ''I'd like to say that I've been able to do something for the town. Their support is overwhelming.''
Howard began delivering The Connersville News Examiner at age 9 and learned the value of saving his money. His mother, Linda, who credited her faith for helping her raise 10 children, said strangers would stop and ask, ''Are you the lady with all the kids?'' before dropping off bags of clothes. ''Maybe everything didn't fit,'' she said. ''But we didn't complain.''
After a childhood spent fighting off his older brothers at the dinner table to protect his food, Howard stashes any locker-room leftovers -- like sandwiches or Gatorade -- in his backpack so they do not go to waste.
Howard said he felt fortunate that he did not have to buy many clothes because he received so much free gear from the team. He scoffed at the notion of buying hair products.
''This is what I woke up with this morning,'' he said of his disheveled mop.
Howard's quirks transcend his locks. He has a collection of hundreds of empty Gatorade bottles and cannot answer why. Lucas Howard, an older brother who is also a Division I baseball umpire and high school basketball referee, once asked Matt why he chatted with the veteran official Jim Burr before Butler's game in the Round of 16 last year. Howard said he thought he saw Burr officiate the 1985 Big East Conference tournament title game on ESPN Classic and double-checked that it was him. (It was.)
While stretching before a game this season, the official Rick Hartzell approached Howard and complimented him on staying out of foul trouble.
''That's because we haven't had you this year,'' Howard said with a smile. Hartzell cracked up. ''I realized immediately that's probably not the right thing to say,'' Howard said. ''But he took it the right way.''
That Howard even made it to Butler may be the ultimate compliment to the program's evolution from midmajor power to national-title contender. Howard, considered the first top-100 recruit in Butler history, took visits to Indiana and Purdue, and had offers from the West Coast to the Ivy League. But Linda Howard said that Matt took to Butler for a few reasons, including being able to play with his summer basketball teammate Zach Hahn. Butler also had the same ''small school, big gym'' feel as Connersville, which has 1,000 students and a gym that holds 5,000.
And while Butler coaches consider Howard one of the most important recruits in the program's history, he has gotten the most out of his time at Butler. Howard holds a grade point average of 3.77 and will graduate with a finance degree, and Lucas Howard said his brother was always commenting on fluctuations in the stock market and oil prices. Matt Howard served two internships last summer, one with a small business incubator on Butler's campus and the other with Merrill Lynch. (He regretted having to spend money on new clothes.)
But Howard's game has evolved, especially in the past month, to the point that he is becoming a more viable N.B.A. prospect. Howard began his career as a pure post-up player but has turned himself into a face-up power forward who shot 6 for 13 from 3-point range in the victories over Pitt and Wisconsin.
Howard acknowledges that Butler will be undersized against the Gators, who have a bigger and deeper frontcourt. Considering where he came from, however, do not count him out. He is quite accustomed to thriving in cramped quarters.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Butler forward Matt Howard, at left with his parents and nine siblings, selected Butler despite attracting interest from universities across the country. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MORRY GASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 HOWARD FAMILY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (88%); ATHLETES (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (72%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); POPULATION SIZE (66%); CITIES (65%); CITY LIFE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (94%); BUTLER UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (78%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (74%) INDIANA, USA (90%); NEVADA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011



596 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Hundreds of Thousands Flee Ivory Coast Crisis, U.N. Says

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

 BODY:
DAKAR, Senegal -- At least 700,000 people have fled their homes in Ivory Coast's main city, Abidjan, to escape the increasing violence and collapsing economy stemming from the nation's political crisis, the United Nations said Friday. 
Daily gunfire spurred by Laurent Gbagbo's efforts to stay in power after losing a presidential election in November has pushed thousands of residents out of neighborhoods surrounding the city's central districts, while the closing of banks and businesses have led to widespread unemployment.
''The massive displacement in Abidjan and elsewhere is being fueled by fears of all-out war,'' a representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees told reporters Friday in Geneva, estimating that 700,000 to one million people had already left their homes.
''Bus terminals are overcrowded with passengers desperate to get seats on vehicles heading to northern, central and eastern parts of the country where there has been no fighting so far,'' an agency spokeswoman, Melissa Fleming, said.
In Abidjan, Mr. Gbagbo's security forces have waged an armed campaign against neighborhoods loyal to the man recognized by international bodies as the winner of the presidential election, Alassane Ouattara, killing at least 25 people with mortar shells at a market last week, the United Nations said.
This month, unarmed demonstrators against his rule were mowed down with machine-gun fire. Guerilla fighters have waged attacks against Mr. Gbagbo's forces in Abidjan, while civilians, caught in the cross-fire, are now deserting neighborhoods wholesale.
The United Nations and African political bodies have been unable to stop the attacks on civilians, despite the presence of a large United Nations peacekeeping force in Abidjan and repeated visits to the city by political leaders from across the continent seeking to mediate a settlement.
At the United Nations, France and Nigeria are calling for additional sanctions on Mr. Gbagbo and his inner circle -- to add to those imposed late last year by the European Union and the United States -- as well as a ban on heavy weapons use in Abidjan.
The United Nations estimates that nearly 500 people have been killed since the election; Mr. Ouattara puts the figure at nearly double that. The mortar attack last week may amount to ''crimes against humanity,'' the United Nations said, but a spokesman for Mr. Gbagbo later riposted with a blast against ''Western media'' for spreading ''false information,'' warning that international journalists there would be considered a ''media extension of prevailing terrorism.''
Fighting in the western part of Ivory Coast has also displaced tens of thousands of residents, according to the United Nations and aid agencies, as fighters loyal to Mr. Ouattara skirmish with militias and troops tied to Mr. Gbagbo.
Towns near the Liberian border have been deserted by people fleeing to the neighboring country, the United Nations said, and there has been looting, rape and killing of civilians in the region.
On Tuesday alone, Ms. Fleming said, 6,000 from Ivory Coast entered Liberia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Women who fled fighting in the Abobo neighborhood of Abidjan arrived at a makeshift refugee camp in Anyama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISSOUF SANOGO/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); REFUGEES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); FIREARMS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); JOURNALISM (74%); TERRORISM (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (70%); WRITERS (69%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (60%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAKAR, SENEGAL (74%) COTE D'IVOIRE (98%); SENEGAL (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); LIBERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011



597 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Less Appetite for Luxury

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN; Chika Ohshima contributed reporting from Tokyo.

 BODY:
At age 23, Maki Kusaka, an office worker in Tokyo, has 10 Gucci handbags lining her wardrobe, the fruits of an obsession she has shared with countless other Japanese to collect the world's hottest luxury brands.
Japan has one of the world's largest economies and its consumers account for an outsize portion of all luxury goods sales. Last year, nearly a quarter of luxury products were bought by the Japanese, according to Deutsche Bank, more than any other single region. But life's priorities have taken on a starkly different cast after the devastating earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster.
''I realize how much I have wasted,'' Ms. Kusaka said as she hurried with her boyfriend one recent evening through empty streets in the normally glittering Ginza shopping district, where streetlamps were still darkened to save electricity two weeks after the earthquake. ''This whole incident has changed people's outlook,'' she said.
Indeed, a broad dimming of consumer optimism in Japan is affecting many industries -- automakers and cellphone companies, among them. 
In the luxury industry, however, nearly every company -- Louis Vuitton, Hermes, Coach and Tiffany -- still counts on Japan for an average of 13 percent of total profit, even as they open boutiques in China at a breakneck pace. Japanese consumers at home and abroad accounted for 24 percent of all luxury goods sales in 2010, according to Deutsche Bank, compared with 22 percent in Europe, 20 percent in North America, 19 percent in China and 15 percent in other markets.
Though luxury products are viewed as a sign of the upper class in other countries, in Japan, they have long been seen as an integral part of middle-class life. Middle-class consumers often skimped on vacations or expensive meals so they could buy luxury clothes or handbags. Now, analysts say, the triple disaster has jolted the Japanese into a new reality, sapping the materialist, feel-good spirit and replacing it with a focus on helping others and a mood of back to basics.
It is impossible to say whether the shock of recent events will lead Japanese consumers to retrench for a long period, or whether the impact will be more short term, as it was after Sept. 11 in the United States. Analysts are rushing to reduce their projections for growth and earnings in the luxury sector, on expectations that Japanese demand could tumble as much as 30 percent this year and remain tepid for up to five years.
Deutsche Bank is one of several banks that slashed its outlook in large part because of the predicted drop in Japanese consumption. It now expects growth in luxury sales worldwide this year to average just 2.1 percent, down from the 8.9 percent it predicted just a few months ago.
Some analysts say the picture in Japan is unlikely to be so dire. After the smaller 7.2 magnitude earthquake razed parts of the Kobe region in southern Japan in 1995, for example, luxury sales declined for just one quarter before rebounding.
''The impact tends to be very emotional and strong in the short term,'' said Luca Solca, a senior luxury goods analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. ''But as we learned from Kobe, things tend to go back to the normal trend, so I'm a bit skeptical that this will cause a dent in luxury goods for the years to come.''
In a sign that some of the concern may be overdone, shares in major luxury companies have regained at least half of the 7 to 14 percent declines they suffered in the days after the March 11 earthquake.
Given the larger magnitude of the current disaster, however, the impact this time could unfold in a variety of ways, and over a more drawn-out period. Among the most exposed are Hermes, Bulgari, the Gucci Group, Richemont and LVMH Moet Hennessey Louis Vuitton, which derived 9 to 19 percent of total sales from Japan last year.
''We expect the luxury volumes sold in Japan and to Japanese consumers elsewhere in the world to tank significantly,'' Edouard Crowley, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, wrote in a recent report. ''The negative news flow coming from Japan should not be underestimated.''
Uncertainty remains particularly high about the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant. Fears of radiation have prompted evacuations from Tokyo, a locus of high-end shopping, and kept free-spending tourists -- especially from China -- away from the lucrative Ginza district, home to one of the biggest luxury enclaves in the world.
On Friday, officials began encouraging people to evacuate a larger area around the plant, a sign that the crippled facility may not be brought under control soon.
''Ginza is totally empty,'' said G. C. Amarit, an employee at an Indian restaurant normally buzzing with Ginza shoppers. ''People don't come here anymore,'' he said. ''We are getting 50 percent less customers.''
Ms. Kusaka, the office worker, did not rule out eventually buying another Gucci product. But for now, she said, the disaster has jolted her into focusing on personal relationships and on people in need. ''I want to devote more of myself to those who are suffering from the earthquake,'' she said.
Louis Vuitton, Gucci, Hermes, Tiffany and many other top brands began to reopen hundreds of stores they shuttered in Tokyo and across the northeast regions of Japan affected by the tsunami and nuclear concerns. Some, like Tiffany, are prepared to continue with periodic store closings, or reduced hours, amid rolling blackouts or other uncertainties that might emerge.
None of the companies would discuss their outlook or comment on whether the events would change their strategy for the Japanese market, other than to indicate they were reviewing the situation.
''We remain vigilant and continue to monitor the situation, as it is continuously changing,'' said a spokesman for PPR, which owns Gucci, Bottega Veneta, Yves Saint Laurent and many other high-end brands.
Tiffany earlier this week reduced its first-quarter earnings guidance amid expectations that sales in Japan would fall by 15 percent.
Nonetheless, over time, any drop-off in Japanese purchases will be made up for by the industry's continued expansion in China and the fast-growing economies of India, Brazil and Russia. China has become the new El Dorado for every major brand, and is expected to pass Japan as the world's top consumer of luxury goods by 2015. But a decline in Japanese demand for goods made in China could then affect the Chinese economy, further distorting the near-term outlook.
Many of the luxury brands have been rushing to put down stakes in dazzling shopping malls across China, including the second- and third-tier cities where growing numbers of Chinese are stepping into the middle class and thirsting for visible logos to broadcast their ascent.
''I hope for Japan that the impact will be less serious than some people fear,'' said Yuval Atsmon, an associate principal at McKinsey & Company in Shanghai and the author of a recent report on China's luxury market.
''At the same time, despite how big luxury consumption is in Japan, it is doubling in China today, so China will be of massive importance going forward,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Louis Vuitton store in Omotesando, Japan. Japanese customers account for a large portion of luxury goods sales. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
The Ginza shopping district of Tokyo is usually busy, but it has been quiet since the earthquake. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORU HANAI/REUTERS) (B4) CHARTS: For Luxury Brands, a Critical Market: Japanese consumers have been the largest consumers of luxury goods, both at home and while traveling. For some brands, sales in Japan alone account for nearly a fifth of revenue. (Sources: Deutsche Bank Global Markets
 Exane BNP Paribas) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (92%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); RETAILERS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TSUNAMIS (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); EARTHQUAKES (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (52%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); AUTOMAKERS (52%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (84%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (68%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (84%); DBK (FRA) (84%); DBK (BIT) (84%); DBETN (JSE) (84%); DBA (ASX) (84%); DB (NYSE) (84%); MC (PAR) (68%); LVMH (BIT) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (68%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) JAPAN (97%); CHINA (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011



598 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1756 words

HEADLINE: In Prison For Taking A Liar Loan

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, when the Justice Department decided not to prosecuteAngelo Mozilo, the former chief executive of Countrywide, I wrote a column lamenting the fact that none of the big fish were likely to go to prison for their roles in the financial crisis.
Soon after that column ran, I received an e-mail from a man named Richard Engle, who informed me that I was wrong. There was, in fact, someone behind bars for what he'd supposedly done during the subprime bubble. It was his 48-year-old son, Charlie.
On Valentine's Day, the elder Mr. Engle said, his son had entered a minimum-security prison in Beaver, W.Va., to begin serving a 21-month sentence for mortgage fraud. He then proceeded to tell me the tale of how federal agents nabbed his son -- a tale he backed up with reams of documents and records that suggest, if nothing else, that when the federal government is truly motivated, there is no mountain it won't move to prosecute someone it wants to nail. And it was definitely motivated to nail Charlie Engle. 
Mr. Engle's is a tale worth telling for a number of reasons, not the least of which is its punch line. Was Mr. Engle convicted of running a crooked subprime company? Was he a mortgage broker who trafficked in predatory loans? A Wall Street huckster who sold toxic assets?
No. Charlie Engle wasn't a seller of bad mortgages. He was a borrower. And the ''mortgage fraud'' for which he was prosecuted was something that literally millions of Americans did during the subprime bubble. Supposedly, he lied on two liar loans.
''The Department of Justice has made prosecuting financial crimes, including mortgage fraud, a high priority,'' said Neil H. MacBride, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, in a statement. (Mr. MacBride, whose office prosecuted Mr. Engle, declined to be interviewed.)
Apparently, though, it's only a high priority if the target is a borrower. Mr. Mozilo's company made billions in profit, some of it on liar loans that he acknowledged at the time were likely to be fraudulent and which did untold damage to the economy. And he personally was paid hundreds of millions of dollars. Though he agreed last year to a $67.5 million fine to settle fraud charges brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission, it was a small fraction of what he earned. Otherwise, he walked. Thus does the Justice Department display its priorities in the aftermath of the crisis.
It's not just that Mr. Engle is the smallest of small fry that is bothersome about his prosecution. It is also the way the government went about building its case. Although Mr. Engle took out the two stated-income loans, as liar loans are more formally called, in late 2005 and early 2006, it wasn't until three years later that his troubles began.
As a young man, Mr. Engle had been a serious drug addict, but after he got clean, he became an ultra-marathoner, one of the best in the world. In the fall of 2006, he and two other ultra-marathoners took on an almost unimaginable challenge: they ran across the Sahara Desert, something that had never been done before. The run took 111 days, and was documented in a film financed by Matt Damon, who served as executive producer and narrator. Mr. Engle received $30,000 for his participation.
The film, ''Running the Sahara,'' was released in the fall of 2008. Eventually, it caught the attention of Robert W. Nordlander, a special agent for the Internal Revenue Service. As Mr. Nordlander later told the grand jury, ''Being the special agent that I am, I was wondering, how does a guy train for this because most people have to work from nine to five and it's very difficult to train for this part-time.'' (He also told the grand jurors that sometimes, when he sees somebody driving a Ferrari, he'll check to see if they make enough money to afford it. When I called Mr. Nordlander and others at the I.R.S. to ask whether this was an appropriate way to choose subjects for criminal tax investigations, my questions were met with a stone wall of silence.)
Mr. Engle's tax records showed that while his actual income was substantial, his taxable income was quite small, in part because he had a large tax-loss carry forward, due to a business deal he'd been involved in several years earlier. (Mr. Nordlander would later inform the grand jury only of his much lower taxable income, which made it seem more suspicious.) Still convinced that Mr. Engle must be hiding income, Mr. Nordlander did undercover surveillance and took ''Dumpster dives'' into Mr. Engle's garbage. He mainly discovered that Mr. Engle lived modestly.
In March 2009, still unsatisfied, Mr. Nordlander persuaded his superiors to send an attractive female undercover agent, Ellen Burrows, to meet Mr. Engle and see if she could get him to say something incriminating. In the course of several flirtatious encounters, she asked him about his investments.
After acknowledging that he had been speculating in real estate during the bubble to help support his running, he said, according to Mr. Nordlander's grand jury testimony, ''I had a couple of good liar loans out there, you know, which my mortgage broker didn't mind writing down, you know, that I was making four hundred thousand grand a year when he knew I wasn't.''
Mr. Engle added, ''Everybody was doing it because it was simply the way it was done. That doesn't make me proud of the fact that I am at least a small part of the problem.''
Unbeknownst to Mr. Engle, Ms. Burrows was wearing a wire.
Lying on a stated-income loan is, without question, a crime, and one ought not to excuse it even though, as Mr. Engle says, ''everybody was doing it'' -- usually with the eager encouragement of their brokers. But the Engle case raises questions not just about the government's priorities, but about something even more basic: did he even commit the crimes he is accused of?
Partly, I concede, Mr. Engle is easy to root for. He is a personable, upbeat man who has conquered some serious demons. Part of his Sahara expedition was aimed at raising money for a charity to help bring clean water to Africa. ''Every experience in life has the ability to teach lessons if I am open to them,'' he wrote on a blog as he prepared to enter prison. How can you not like someone like that?
But the more I looked into it, the more I came to believe that the case against him was seriously weak. No tax charges were ever brought, even though that was Mr. Nordlander's original rationale. Money laundering, the suspicion of which was needed to justify the undercover sting, was a nonissue as well. As for that ''confession'' to Ms. Burrows, take a closer look. It really isn't a confession at all. Mr. Engle is confessing to his mortgage broker's sins, not his own.
Perhaps anticipating that problem, when Mr. Nordlander finally arrested Mr. Engle in May 2010, he claims to have elicited a stronger, better confession while Mr. Engle was handcuffed in the back seat of his car. Mr. Engle fervently denies this. This second supposed confession, however, was never captured on tape.
As for the loans themselves, on one of them Mr. Engle claimed an income of $15,000 a month. As it turns out, his total income in 2005, according to his accountant, was $180,000, which amounts to ... hmmm ...$15,000 a month, though of course Mr. Engle didn't have the kind of job that generated monthly income. (In addition to real estate speculation, Mr. Engle gave motivational speeches and earned around $50,000 a year as a producer on the hit show ''Extreme Makeover: Home Edition.'')
The monthly income listed on the second loan was $32,500, an obviously absurd amount, especially since the loan itself was for only $300,000. It was a refinance of a property Mr. Engle already owned, allowing him to pull out $80,000 of the $215,000 in equity he had in the property.
Mr. Engle claims that he never saw that $32,500 claim and never signed the papers. Indeed, a handwriting analysis conducted by the government raised the distinct possibility that Mr. Engle's signature and his initials in several places in the mortgage documents had been forged. As it happens, Mr. Engle's broker for that loan, John J. Hellman, recently pleaded guilty to mortgage fraud for playing fast and loose with a number of mortgage applications. Mr. Hellman testified in court that Mr. Engle had signed the mortgage application. Early this week, Mr. Hellman received a reduced sentence of 10 months, less than half of Mr. Engle's sentence, in no small part because of his willingness to testify against Mr. Engle.
Even the jurors seemed confused about how to think about Mr. Engle's supposed crime. When it came time to pronounce a verdict, the jury found him not guilty of providing false information to the bank, which would seem to be the only fraud he could possibly have committed. Yet it still found him guilty of mortgage fraud. ''I think the prosecution convinced the jury that I was guilty of something but they weren't sure what,'' Mr. Engle wrote in an e-mail.
Like many people, Mr. Engle's biggest mistake was believing that housing prices could only go up. When the market collapsed, Mr. Engle defaulted on the two properties, which of course is not a crime. Although his accountant tried to persuade the banks to do a complicated refinancing, they refused and foreclosed on the properties. Like many Americans, Mr. Engle wound up being punished by the market for his mistake, losing all his remaining equity along with the properties themselves. Thanks to the government, though, his punishment was far more severe than most.
At his sentencing, Mr. Engle told the judge: ''I can say with confidence that I can turn negatives into positives. I have no doubt I will make the best of it.'' With his inspiring prison blog, Running in Place: A Blog About Surviving Adversity, he has already begun to do that.
Even when he emerges from prison, though, his ordeal will not be over. As part of his sentence, Mr. Engle was ordered to pay $262,500 in restitution to the owner of his mortgages. And what institution might that be? You guessed it: Countrywide, now owned by Bank of America.
Angelo Mozilo ought to get a good chuckle out of that one.
This is my last Talking Business column; as you may have read I will soon be moving to the Op-Ed page. It has been a joy and a privilege to be entrusted with this space each Saturday, and what has made it especially rewarding has been interacting with so many passionate, thoughtful readers. I look forward to re-engaging with you when my Op-Ed column begins next month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Federal prosecutors went after Charlie Engle, a borrower. (B1)
 Charlie Engle on Half Dome in Yosemite National Park, Calif. He is now in prison for fraud. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROD MCLEAN) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); SENTENCING (77%); PRISONS (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (76%); PREDATORY LENDING (75%); FAIR LENDING (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011



599 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Shipping Lines Pull Back From Japan

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Jad Mouawad, William Neuman and Motoko Rich contributed reporting from New York, and Nick Bunkley from Detroit.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The economic disruptions from Japan's crisis have cascaded into another, crucial link in the global supply chain: cargo shipping.
Fearing the potential impact on crews, cargo and vessels worth tens of millions of dollars, some of the world's biggest container shipping lines have restricted or barred their ships from calling on ports in Tokyo Bay over concerns about radiation from the damaged Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
Meantime, ports in China are starting to require strict radiation checks on ships arriving from Japan. And in California on Friday, the first ship to reach the Port of Long Beach since Japan's earthquake was boarded and scanned for radiation by Coast Guard and federal customs officials before being allowed to dock.
Big Japanese ports much farther south of Tokyo, like Osaka and Kobe, are still loading and unloading cargo. But the Tokyo Bay ports of Tokyo and Yokohama are normally Japan's two busiest, representing as much as 40 percent of the nation's foreign container cargo. If other shipping companies join those already avoiding the Tokyo area, as radiation contamination spreads from Fukushima Daiichi 140 miles north, the delays in getting goods in and out of Japan would only grow worse. 
The shipping industry's fears have escalated since port officials in Xiamen, China, earlier this week detected radiation on a large container ship belonging to Mitsui O.S.K. Lines. The vessel, which is still under quarantine, had sailed down Japan's northeast coast and reportedly came no closer than 80 miles to the damaged nuclear power plant.
Hapag-Lloyd, a German container shipping line that is one of the world's largest, halted service to Tokyo and Yokohama after the tsunami swamped Fukushima Daiichi. The shipper has not resumed service to those ports.
''We put safety ahead of everything else,'' said Eva Gjersvik, the company's senior director for corporate communications, adding that the company was reviewing daily whether to resume sailings to Tokyo.
Reuters reported that another German shipper, Claus-Peter Offen, has also stopped calling at Tokyo and Yokohama.
OOCL, a shipping line based in Hong Kong, said late Friday that the company had decided to halt all traffic to Tokyo and Yokohama.
OOCL will take Tokyo-bound containers to Osaka instead and send them overland from there, said Stanley Shen, the head of investor relations. The company has also drafted contingency plans to prevent its containers from traveling even overland to Tokyo if radiation levels increase in the Japanese capital, Mr. Shen added.
Merchant vessels may have to be scrapped if quarantined even temporarily for radioactivity, because they would face extra coast guard checks for years at subsequent destinations, said Basil M. Karatzas, the managing director for projects and finance at Compass Maritime Services, a ship brokerage in Teaneck, N.J.
The extra inspections make it hard to keep a schedule. ''The charterers in the future will try to avoid the vessel because of the likelihood it will be delayed again,'' Mr. Karatzas said.
It is not only commercial ships that are giving the radiation region a wide berth.
A senior nuclear executive said on Friday evening that the United States Navy had moved nuclear-powered vessels like the Ronald Reagan aircraft carrier far from the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant after officers became concerned that radiation from the plant could enter the ships' air ducts.
The worry is not that the radiation would pose a threat to the vessels' crews, but that even trace contamination of the ducts could create problems in the extremely sensitive equipment aboard nuclear-powered vessels that is intended to detect any hint of a radioactive leak from onboard systems, said the executive, who insisted on anonymity to protect business connections.
Shippers, even if they can avoid radiation exposure, know that cargo coming from Japan is now subject to new delays.
In California on Friday, the ship scanned for radiation at the Port of Long Beach carried about 2,500 containers from four ports: Kobe and Nagoya in the south and Shimizu and Tokyo farther north.
Under protocols established after the Sept. 11 attacks, the United States Customs Service usually inspects all arriving shipments in radiation scans in the port. But according to Art Wong, a spokesman for the Port of Long Beach, concerns from dockworkers prompted Coast Guard and customs inspectors to board the Japanese ship in the harbor and scan the cargo for radiation with hand-held scanners. Only then was the ship allowed to dock.
Mr. Wong said he expected a slowdown. ''One of the problems we've been hearing is they have transportation issues of getting things from northern Japan,'' he said. ''Which is why we expect to get a slowdown of autos and auto parts. That should hit us in a few more weeks.''
One of China's largest ports, Yantian port in Shenzhen, next to Hong Kong, announced Friday that it had begun screening all arriving vessels and containers for radiation if they had been to Japan in the preceding 28 days and if Yantian was their first port of call in China. These vessels will not be allowed to unload until after all screening has taken place.
The port of Hong Kong announced earlier this week that it would begin screening random vessels for radiation as well.
Hapag-Lloyd has started unloading Tokyo-bound containers near Osaka and sending them overland. Shippers are allowed to send containers to areas north of Tokyo, but must pay for them, because the company will not take them back afterward.
Maersk of Denmark and the German shipper Hamburg Sud have maintained port calls at Tokyo but are reassessing weather conditions and radiation there almost hourly, company officials said. The main weather worry is that a north wind might blow radiation south from the damaged nuclear reactors and then rain might wash radioactive particles out of the sky and onto vessels.
''The overriding factor for us is to safeguard the well-being of our seagoing staff and, at the same time, ensure that Japan is not cut off from the international flow of merchandise,'' Joachim A. Konrad, the deputy chairman of Hamburg Sud, said in a statement.
Container shipping lines typically buy some of their ships and lease the rest from finance companies and other owners. Some ship owners, particularly in Europe, are now trying to limit the shipping lines from using their vessels on services that include port calls in the Tokyo area, said a shipping line manager who insisted on anonymity because of the sensitivity of shipping lines' relationships with owners.
Jeffrey Landsberg, of Commodore Research, a shipping consulting firm, said that bulk shipping vessels carrying grain to Japan had been able to unload using Japan's undamaged southern ports. Some were diverted from disabled ports in the north.
Ports north of Tokyo were devastated by the earthquake and tsunami, but were not served by international shipping lines even before the crisis. But now, until the radiation problem is contained, Tokyo and Yokohama are themselves threatened as fully functioning seaports.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Port of Tokyo on Friday. Radiation threats from northern Japan are worrying some top container shipping lines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER JUE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
(B1)
 Officials in the Port of Rizhao, China, take samples from a shipment of mackerel imported from Japan for a radiation test. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHEN WEIFENG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B4) MAP: Avoiding Tokyo: Some shipping companies are avoiding ports near Tokyo because of concerns about radioactive contamination from Japan's crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE SHIPPING (90%); CONTAINERIZATION (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); POWER PLANTS (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (61%)

COMPANY: HAPAG-LLOYD AG (90%); MITSUI OSK LINES LTD (90%)

TICKER: 9104 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483113 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4424 DEEP SEA DOMESTIC TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (90%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (90%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (90%); SIC4491 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (95%); OSAKA, JAPAN (88%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (76%) JAPAN (99%); HONG KONG (93%); CHINA (93%); GERMANY (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011



600 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
CHINA SENTENCES ACTIVIST
ON CHARGES OF SLANDER
A Chinese court sentenced one of the country's most seasoned pro-democracy activists to 10 years in prison on charges that his writings slandered the governing Communist Party and were part of an effort to end its monopoly on power, his lawyer said. Page A6
PARTY FALLS IN CANADA 
Canada's Conservative government fell when opposition parties voted it in contempt of Parliament, accusing it of failing to disclose accurate cost figures for several key programs. The vote sets up new elections, the fourth in seven years. Page A6
PROTEST STORMED IN JORDAN
Riot police officers raided a pro-democracy rally in the Jordanian capital, leaving one man dead, injuring scores of other people and dispersing with water cannons a 1,000-person tent camp set up the previous day to resemble Tahrir Square in Cairo. Page A8
A MOUNTING BILL IN LIBYA
With fighter planes darting around at a cost of $13,000 an hour and Tomahawk missiles worth $1.4 million apiece, lawmakers are concerned about how much the intervention in Libya will cost the Pentagon. Page A9
DIVERGING VIEWS IN MEXICO
Carlos Pascual, the American ambassador in Mexico City who resigned last week, by all accounts had assumed a role of activist and reformer, but the role irked Mexico's president and signaling a divide in the way the role of ambassador is viewed. Page A10
National
BISHOPS REASSESS POLICIES
AFTER PRIEST SUSPENSIONS
Nine years after a scandal in Boston prompted America's Roman Catholic bishops to announce sweeping policy changes to protect children from sexual abuse by priests, the bishops are scrambling to contain the damage from a growing crisis in Philadelphia that has challenged the credibility of their own safeguards. Page A12
STRICT NEW IMMIGRANT LAWS
Georgia would take a cue from Arizona and broaden local law enforcement's power to question immigration status. In Alabama, it would become illegal to rent to illegal immigrants. Page A13
Jesuits to Pay Settlement A14
New York
LOOKING FOR THOSE WHO CALL
CENTRAL PARK THEIR HOME
Who were the two-dozen-plus urban pastoralists who told census takers, in last year's count, that their address was none other than Central Park? All that was certain -- if, indeed, anything was -- was that New York City Census Tract No. 143, better known as Central Park, was officially home to 25 residents in 2010. Page A17
Obituaries
RICHARD LEACOCK, 89
He was the filmmaker who helped create the documentary style known as direct camera or cinema verite, and who played a pivotal role in making some of the most innovative documentaries of the 1960s. Page A21
Business
JAPAN LOVE OF LUXURY ITEMS
SHIFTS IN THE WAKE OF CRISIS
Last year, Japan accounted for nearly a quarter of all luxury products purchased, according to Deutsche Bank, more than any other single region. But life's priorities have taken on a starkly different cast after the devastating earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster. Page B1
JAPAN CRISIS HITS SHIPPING
The economic disruptions from Japan's crisis have cascaded into cargo shipping. Some of the world's biggest container shipping lines have restricted or barred their ships from calling on ports in Tokyo Bay over concerns about radiation and ports in China and California have detained ships arriving from Japan for radiation screening. Page B1
G.M. PLANT IS BACK ONLINE
General Motors said that it would resume production at a Louisiana pickup-truck plant that had been idled this week because of low supplies of a Japanese-made part. Page B4
Arts
NINTENDO SCORES 3-D HIT
WITH NEW MOBILE DEVICE
Nintendo's new 3DS device is quite literally like nothing you have seen before, writes Seth Schiesel. In the guise of a hand-held game machine that costs about $250, Nintendo has produced a most astonishing entertainment device. Page C1
A PARTNERSHIP FOR STANDARDS
With the Royal Conservatory of Music in Toronto, Carnegie Hall will create the Carnegie Hall Royal Conservatory Achievement Program, an attempt to set standards in music education and performance in the United States. Page C4
Sports
MATT HOWARD AND BUTLER CLOSE TO 2ND FINAL FOUR
With his bird's nest of brown hair and deprecating humor, Matt Howard has emerged as one of the faces this N.C.A.A. tournament. He jokes that he and Butler may always lose the look test, but they still have not lost a game. Much of that is because of Howard's heady, relentless and clutch play, which has No. 8-seeded Butler on the cusp of its second consecutive Final Four. Page D2
Op-ed
BOB HERBERT PAGE A23
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); LIBEL & SLANDER (90%); POLITICS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (86%); RELIGION (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (74%); RIOTS (74%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); DEATHS (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); LUXURY GOODS (66%); CENSUS (64%); CHILDREN (64%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (62%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (62%); FILM (60%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (50%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (50%); DBK (FRA) (50%); DBK (BIT) (50%); DBETN (JSE) (50%); DBA (ASX) (50%); DB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); CANADA (94%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); JORDAN (90%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011

 
