

401 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2304 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT IN EUROPE; 
Bush's Vision: 'We Will Not Trade Away the Fate of Free European Peoples'

 BODY:
Following is an excerpt from a speech by President Bush yesterday at the Warsaw University Library in Poland, as recorded by The New York Times:
 Today I have come to the center of Europe to speak of the future of Europe. Some still call this the East. But Warsaw is closer to Ireland than it is to the Urals. And it is time to put talk of East and West behind us. 
 Yalta did not ratify a natural divide. It divided a living civilization. The partition of Europe was not a fact of geography. It was an act of violence. And wise leaders for decades have found the hope of European peace in the hope of greater unity. 
In the same speech that described an Iron Curtain, Winston Churchill called for a new unity in Europe from which no nation should be permanently outcast. Consider how far we have come since that speech. Through trenches and shellfire, through death camps and bombed-out cities, through gulags and food lines, men and women have dreamed of what my father called a Europe whole and free.
This free Europe is no longer a dream. It is the Europe that is rising around us. It is the work that you and I are called on to complete. We can build an open Europe, a Europe without Hitler and Stalin, without Brezhnev and Honecker and Ceaucescu and, yes, without Milosevic.
Our goal is to erase the false lines. Our goal is to erase the false lines that have divided Europe for too long. The future of every European nation must be determined by the progress of internal reform, not the interests of outside powers. Every European nation has struggled toward democracy and free markets. And a strong civic culture must be welcomed into Europe's home. 
All of Europe's new democracies, from the Baltic to the Black Sea and all that lie between, should have the same chance for security and freedom and the same chance to join the institutions of Europe as Europe's old democracies have. 
I believe in NATO membership for all of Europe's democracies that seek and are ready to share the responsibility that NATO brings. 
The question of "when" may be still up for debate within NATO. The question of "whether" should not be. As we plan to enlarge NATO, no nation should be used as a pawn in the agendas of others. We will not trade away the fate of free European peoples. No more Munichs, no more Yaltas. Let us tell all those, let us tell all those who have struggled to build democracy and free markets what we have told the Poles. From now on, what you build you keep. No one can take away your freedom or your country. 
Next year, NATO's leaders will meet in Prague. The United States will be prepared to make concrete historic decisions with its allies to advance NATO enlargement. Poland and America share a vision. As we plan the Prague summit, we should not calculate how little we can get away with, but how much we can do to advance the cause of freedom. The expansion, the expansion of NATO has fulfilled NATO's promise, and that promise now leads eastward and southward, northward and onward. 
I want to thank Poland for acting as a bridge to the new democracies of Europe and a champion of the interests and security of your neighbors such as the Baltic states, Ukraine, Slovakia. You're making real the words, "For your freedom and ours." 
All nations should understand there is no conflict between membership in NATO and membership in the European Union. My nation welcomes the consolidation of European unity and the stability it brings. We welcome a greater role for the E.U. in European security, properly integrated with NATO. We welcome the incentive for reform that the hope of E.U. membership creates. We welcome a Europe that is truly united, truly democratic and truly diverse, a collection of peoples and nations bound together in purpose and respect and faithful to their own roots. The most basic commitments of NATO and the European Union are similar -- democracy, free markets and common security. 
And all in Europe and America understand the central lesson of the century past. When Europe and America are divided, history tends to tragedy. When Europe and America are partners, no trouble or tyranny can stand against us. 
Our vision of Europe must also include the Balkans. Unlike the people of Poland, many people and leaders in southeast Europe made the wrong choices in the last decade. There, Communism fell, but dictators exploited a murderous nationalism to cling to power and to conquer new land. 
Twice, NATO had to intervene militarily to stop the killing and defend the values that define a new Europe. Today, instability remains, and there are still those who seek to undermine the fragile peace that holds. We condemn those, like the sponsors of violence in Macedonia who seek to subvert democracy. 
But we've made progress. We see democratic change in Zagreb and Belgrade, moderate governments in Bosnia, multiethnic police in Kosovo, the end of violence in southern Serbia. For the first time in history, all governments in the region are democratic, committed to cooperating with one another and predisposed to join Europe. Across the region, nations are yearning to be a part of Europe. The burdens and benefits of satisfying that yearning will naturally fall most heavily on Europe itself. That is why I welcome Europe's commitment to play a leading role in the stabilization of southeastern Europe. 
Countries other than the United States already provide over 80 percent of the NATO-led forces in the region. But I know that America's role is important, and we will meet our obligations. We went into the Balkans together and we will come out together. And our goal must be to hasten the arrival of that day.
The Europe we are building must include Ukraine, a nation struggling with the trauma of transition. Some in Kiev speak of their country's European destiny. If this is their aspiration, we should reward it. We must extend our hand to Ukraine, as Poland has already done with such determination.
The Europe we are building must also be open to Russia. We have a stake in Russia's success and we look forward to the day when Russia is fully reformed, fully democratic and closely bound to the rest of Europe. Europe's great institutions -- NATO and the European Union -- can and should build partnerships with Russia and with all the countries that have emerged from the wreckage of the former Soviet Union. 
Tomorrow, I will see President Putin and express my hopes for a Russia that is truly great, a greatness measured by the strength of its democracy, the good treatment of minorities and the achievement of its people. I will express to President Putin that Russia is a part of Europe and, therefore, does not need a buffer zone of insecure states separating it from Europe. 
NATO, even as it grows, is no enemy of Russia. Poland is no enemy of Russia. America is no enemy of Russia. We will seek a constructive relationship with Russia for the benefit of all our peoples. I will make the case, as I have to all the European leaders I have met on this trip, that the basis for our mutual security must move beyond cold war doctrines.
Today we face growing threats from weapons of mass destruction and missiles in the hands of states for whom terror and blackmail are a way of life. So we must have a broad strategy of active nonproliferation, counterproliferation and a new concept of deterrence that includes defenses sufficient to protect our people, our forces and our allies, as well as reduce reliance on nuclear weapons.
And finally I'll make clear to President Putin that the path to greater prosperity and greater security lies in greater freedom. The 20th century has taught us that only freedom gets the highest service from every citizen, citizens who can publish, citizens who can worship, citizens who can organize for themselves without fear of intimidation and with the full protection of the law. 
This, after all, is the true source of European unity. Ultimately, it's more than the unity of markets. It is more than the unity of interests. It is the unity of values. Through a hard history with all its precedents of pain, Europe has come to believe in the dignity of every individual, in social freedom tempered by moral restraint and economic liberty balanced with humane values.
The revolutions of 1989, said Pope John Paul II, were made possible by the commitment of brave men and women inspired by a different and, ultimately, more profound and powerful vision -- the vision of man as a creature of intelligence and free will immersed in a mystery which transcends his own being and endowed with the ability to reflect and the ability to choose, and thus capable of wisdom and virtue. 
This belief successfully challenged Communism. It challenges materialism in all its forms. Just as man cannot be reduced to a means of production, he must find goals greater than mere consumption. The European ideal is inconsistent with a life defined by gain and greed and the lonely pursuit of self. It calls for consideration and respect, compassion and forgiveness, the habits of character on which the exercise of freedom depends.
And all these duties and all these rights are ultimately traced to a source of law and justice above our wills and beyond our politics, an author of dignity who calls us to act worthy of our dignity. This belief is more than a memory. It is a living faith. And it is the main reason Europe and America will never be separated. 
We are products of the same history, reaching from Jerusalem and Athens to Warsaw and Washington. We share more than an alliance. We share a civilization. Its values are universal, and they pervade our history and our partnership in a unique way. These trans-Atlantic ties could not be severed by U-boats. They could not be cut by checkpoints and barbed wire. They were not ended by SS-20's and nuclear blackmail. And they certainly will not be broken by commercial quarrels and political debates. America will not permit it. Poland will not allow it.
This unity of values and aspirations calls us to new tasks. Those who have benefited and prospered most from the commitment to freedom and openness have an obligation to help others that are seeking their way along that path.
That is why our trans-Atlantic community must have priorities beyond the consolidation of European peace. 
We must bring peace and health to Africa -- a neighbor to Europe, a heritage to many Americans, a continent in crisis and a place of enormous potential. We must work together to shut down the arms trafficking that fuels Africa's wars, fight the spread of AIDS that may make 40 million children into orphans and help all of Africa share in the trade and promise of the modern world.
We must work toward a world that trades in freedom, a world where prosperity is available to all through the power of markets, a world where open trade spurs the process of economic and legal reform, a world of cooperation to enhance prosperity, protect the environment and lift the quality of life for all.
We must confront the shared security threats of regimes that thrive by creating instability, that are ambitious for weapons of mass destruction and are dangerously unpredictable.
In Europe, you are closer to these challenges than the United States. You see the lightning well before we hear the thunder. Only together, however, can we confront the emerging threats of a changing world.
Fifty years ago, all Europe looked to the United States for help. Ten years ago, Poland did, as well. Now we and others can only go forward together. The question no longer is what others can do for Poland, but what America and Poland and all of Europe can do for the rest of the world.
In the early 1940's, Winston Churchill saw a world war and a cold war to a greater project. Let the great cities of Warsaw and Prague and Vienna banish despair, even in the midst of their agony, he said. Their liberation is sure. The day will come when the joy bells will ring again throughout Europe and when victorious nations, masters not only of their foes, but of themselves, will plan and build in justice and tradition and in freedom a house of many mansions where there will be room for all.
To his contemporaries who lived in a Europe of division and violence, this vision must have seemed unimaginable. Yet our fathers, yours and mine, struggled and sacrificed to make this vision real. Now it is within our grasp.
Today a new generation makes a new commitment. A Europe and an America bound in a great alliance of liberty, history's greatest united force for peace and progress and human dignity. The bells of victory have rung. The Iron Curtain is no more. Now we plan and build the house of freedom, whose doors are open to all of Europe's peoples and whose windows look out to global challenges beyond.
Our progress is great. Our goals are large, and our differences, in comparison, are small.
An America in calm and in crisis will honor this vision and the values we share. Poland in so many ways is a symbol of renewal and common purpose. More than a half a century ago from this spot, all one could see was a desert of ruins. Hardly did a single unbroken brick touch another. This city had been razed by the Nazis and betrayed by the Soviets. Its people were mostly displaced.
Not far from here is the only monument which survived. It is the figure of Christ falling under the cross and struggling to rise. Under him are written the words, "Sursum corda," "Lift up your hearts." From the determination in Polish hearts, Warsaw did rise again, brick by brick. Poland has regained its rightful place at the heart of a new Europe and is helping other nations to find their own.
"Lift up your hearts" is a story of Poland. "Lift up your hearts" is a story of a new Europe. And together let us raise this hope of freedom for all who seek it in our world.
God bless. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (73%); MOUNTAINS (71%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (94%) EUROPE (99%); POLAND (94%); IRELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UKRAINE (88%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2001 



402 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Europe Opens Door for G.E., Just Slightly

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER with CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, June 15 

 BODY:
Amid signs of political pressure from the United States, the European Commission said today that a "limited opportunity" remained for General Electric to offer more concessions to win approval of its planned $45 billion acquisition of Honeywell International, even though the deadline for new concessions had passed.
 President Bush said at a news conference in Warsaw today that "we brought up the proposed merger at the appropriate levels during this trip and before the trip." 
 "I am concerned that the Europeans have rejected it," Mr. Bush said. 
European Commission officials declined to comment on the president's remarks. But a commission spokeswoman, Amelia Torres, did note that General Electric and Honeywell could "submit modified proposals after the deadline," which expired at midnight Thursday. 
Earlier that day, after General Electric said it was "not optimistic" that its final concessions would be approved, the commission said that it wanted the company to make a "structural commitment to modify the commercial behavior" of its aircraft leasing unit.
"The commission has rejected the companies' final concessions, but it has still left a window open for negotiation," a Brussels competition lawyer said. The commission must issue a ruling by July 12.
In the remaining weeks, the focus turns to the national competition regulators who sit on an advisory committee that oversees important merger rulings -- and whom General Electric may now try to lobby.
While the national regulators cannot force the commission to back down, they can add to the political pressure on the commission if they are persuaded that General Electric's offer on Thursday represents a sufficient remedy.
"One of the main reasons G.E. held a hearing at the end of May was to alert the national competition regulators to what it considers overzealousness by the commission," a lawyer close to the talks said.
While there is a precedent for a last-minute deal -- Boeing made late concessions to win European approval of its $14 billion acquisition of McDonnell Douglas in 1997 -- the window of opportunity in General Electric's case appears very small. 
Shares of Honeywell rose 4.3 percent today, to $38.70, helped in part by speculation that United Technologies, which had been rebuffed last fall in its efforts to acquire Honeywell, might bid again if General Electric's bid is not approved. 
But Honeywell shares are down 16 percent from their level when the deal with General Electric was announced on Oct. 23. G.E. shares are also down from October, so that its stock offer, which was valued at $45 billion when it was announced, is now worth $42 billion. 
"My gut tells me this deal will still happen, but it's obviously a very intense negotiation," said Timothy M. Ghriskey, a senior portfolio manager of the Dreyfus Corporation, whose funds hold millions of G.E. shares. "And if Jack Welch says that the deal will no longer make sense if he has to divest too much, then I believe him."
Indeed, memos sent to General Electric employees on Thursday indicated that the company was already preparing for the deal to be rejected. A memo sent by David Calhoun, the head of GE Aircraft Engines, instructed employees "to suspend all integration planning activities and refocus your efforts on meeting aircraft engines' current customer and business requirements."
And a memo to employees from Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.'s president and the designated successor to John F. Welch Jr., the chairman and chief executive, struck a very pessimistic tone. "We are not confident that our proposal will be approved since it falls well short of the commission's demands," he wrote. 
While General Electric may simply be engaged in brinkmanship with the European Commission, which has become more aggressive in reviewing mergers under the leadership of Mario Monti, some analysts and people close to the company speculated that G.E. might now want the deal to be scuttled.
While Honeywell's aircraft and avionics businesses are still vibrant, analysts say, its automation, specialty chemicals, process controls and other businesses have suffered amid the economic slowdown since the deal was announced. 
If G.E. is forced to sell off too much of the aviation-related businesses they say, it has little of value left. 
"There's just not a lot of upside left in the deal unless the European Union accepts G.E.'s terms," said James N. Kelleher, an analyst with Argus Research. "This was supposed to cap Jack Welch's career, but maybe Jeff Immelt is not so anxious to take on an asset that is stripped of the very things that made G.E. want it in the first place."
Nonetheless, Mr. Welch has a personal stake in seeing the Honeywell deal done. He deferred his planned retirement, set for April, until the end of the year to help with the integration of Honeywell.
In its final concession proposal, G.E. offered to set up its aircraft leasing unit, GE Capital Aviation Services, or Gecas, as a separate entity from GE Capital. But the commission said that was not enough.
American lawyers who are familiar with European merger reviews said that they expected the commission would be satisfied if General Electric spun off nearly 20 percent of Gecas. That way Gecas would be its own profit center, with a fiduciary responsibility to shareholders. G.E. could still consolidate its results, and would effectively control its operations. But its dealings would be transparent, and that could assuage regulators' fears that the combined company would favor Honeywell avionics products and G.E. engines.
If General Electric does end up modifying its proposal on Gecas, it would have to offer a solution "that would not require any monitoring," Ms. Torres, the commission spokeswoman, said.
In a broader context, the comments on the deal by Mr. Bush point to a possible renewed intensification of trade tensions between the United States and Europe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); MERGERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); LAWYERS (71%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (67%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (67%); STOCK OFFERINGS (65%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SPACE 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (90%); DREYFUS CORP (60%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); BOEING CO (55%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%) HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; EUROPEAN COMMISSION 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (90%); GEC (LSE) (90%); GE (SWX) (90%); GE (NYSE) (90%); HON (NYSE) (58%); HON (LSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); UTX (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%) MELLER, PAUL; DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2001 



403 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Congressman Seeks Hearing On Bush Aide 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15 

 BODY:
Turning the tables on Republicans who spent eight years investigating the Clinton White House, the ranking Democrat on the House Government Reform Committee has demanded details of dealings that Karl Rove, President Bush's senior adviser, had with a variety of companies in which he was an investor.
 The demand, by Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, came after the White House confirmed this week that Mr. Rove met with the chief executive of the Intel Corporation in March about an issue pending before the Bush administration. Mr. Rove held Intel stock until he sold all his holdings in individual companies on June 7. 
 The White House has said Mr. Rove referred the Intel executive, Craig Barrett, to the National Economic Council, which was dealing with the issue of a Dutch company that was planning to buy a key Intel supplier. 
Mr. Barrett, through a spokesman, Chuck Mulloy, said today that he "had no recollection of what Mr. Rove's reaction was" on the question of the acquisition. The same day, Mr. Barrett also met with Vice President Dick Cheney and raised the issue, but Mr. Cheney appeared unfamiliar with it, Intel officials said.
The administration approved the sale of the supplier, Silicon Valley Group, to the Dutch company, as Intel officials had urged. But it stipulated that a part of the company had to be spun off because its technology was used in spy satellites. 
In a letter to Mr. Rove today, Mr. Waxman wrote that he was concerned that "you might have been involved in decisions that could have affected your stock holdings." He asked for a listing of meetings Mr. Rove had had with other executives of firms in which he held a stake, or other issues Mr. Rove may have dealt with that involved companies in his portfolio.
At the White House today, Dan Bartlett, a senior communications official who often speaks for Mr. Rove, said a preliminary search of Mr. Rove's logs showed "no other meetings like the one with Intel." But Mr. Bartlett cautioned that the review was not comprehensive and that the White House counsel's office would help respond to Mr. Waxman.
The White House has declined a request from The New York Times and other organizations for Mr. Rove's meeting logs. But Mr. Bartlett said Mr. Rove recalled meeting with another prominent high-technology executive, John Chambers, the chief executive of Cisco Systems, which makes Internet routing equipment. Mr. Rove reported in a financial disclosure form that as of Dec. 30 he owned $100,000 to $250,000 in Cisco stock.
The meeting, Mr. Bartlett said, was chiefly about Mr. Bush's education plan, which Mr. Chambers has often endorsed. Mr. Chambers was among high-technology leaders who went to Austin, Tex., late last year to meet with Mr. Bush.
Mr. Bartlett suggested today that politics, not the facts, were driving Mr. Waxman's request. Mr. Waxman wrote the chairman of the Government Reform Committee, Representative Dan Burton, Republican of Indiana, who led numerous investigations into the Clinton White House, urging him to hold hearings on Mr. Rove's activities.
"The American people are tired of these partisan investigations of the past," Mr. Bartlett said. "We've offered a clear break from this and we hope they will do the same."
Mr. Rove's December financial disclosure form lists stocks in a variety of companies that have issues before the government. They include defense contractors like Boeing and Raytheon, financial firms like Lehman Brothers and American Express, drug companies like Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson, and high-technology companies. 
Mr. Rove also held shares in energy companies, including BP Amoco and Enron, that have major interests in the president's energy policies. But Mr. Rove was not a member of Mr. Cheney's energy task force.
Mr. Bartlett said Mr. Rove had scrupulously followed advice from the general counsel's office "to avoid any conflict of interest."
Mr. Rove knew from the time he entered the White House that he would have to divest himself of those holdings. But the White House counsel's office told him not to do so until he received a government certificate that allows him to delay paying capital gains taxes on those investments, since he was required to sell them because of his government service. 
Mr. Bartlett said Mr. Rove did not receive that document until June 6, because of a backlog in the general counsel's office. He sold his stock the next day, Mr. Bartlett added. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHICS (78%); POLITICS (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (75%); APPROVALS (70%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (94%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (94%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (68%) SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); KARL ROVE (92%); HENRY WAXMAN (89%); JOHN T CHAMBERS (75%); DICK CHENEY (73%) SANGER, DAVID E; ROVE, KARL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WAXMAN, HENRY A (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2001 



404 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Impasse on Gases: Who Moves First? 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
In recent days, President Bush has repeatedly said a major reason for his rejection of a proposed agreement to stem global warming is that it would require industrialized countries to cut heat-trapping gas emissions while exempting developing countries from similar obligations. 
 His view -- shared by the Senate in a 95-to-0 vote on a 1997 resolution -- is that rapidly growing countries like China and India are poised to pass industrialized countries in output of these gases, and so everyone must move to solve the problem. 
 Many experts in international environmental law and policy agree that, in the long run, this is true. But they note that insistence on binding commitments by all countries at the same time runs counter to a principle that has shaped almost every other recent environmental treaty: cleanups should be started by prosperous countries because they created the bulk of the problem and have the money and technology to fix it. 
A prime example, the experts say, is the 1987 Montreal Protocol to curb substances that deplete the ozone layer, negotiated during the Reagan administration. That agreement, which has largely stemmed releases of damaging chlorofluorocarbons, applied first to industrial powers, with China and India being granted a grace period of 10 years.
But the most relevant agreement is the first climate treaty, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which was signed in 1992 by Mr. Bush's father and approved unanimously by the Senate. 
The Kyoto Protocol was negotiated in 1997 after it became clear that the 1992 treaty, which called for voluntary efforts to cut emissions, was not working. 
The 1992 agreement includes several statements specifying that the first steps toward limiting warming should be taken by the industrial powers that stoked the atmosphere with the vast majority of its existing concentrations of long-lived greenhouse gases, mainly carbon dioxide. 
Dr. Lawrence Susskind, a professor of urban and environmental planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the author of "Environmental Diplomacy" (Oxford University Press, 1995), said: "The convention came into force and is now part of international law. We signed it, we ratified it." 
"There's nothing in the Kyoto Protocol that is inconsistent with that convention," Dr. Susskind added.
Mr. Bush's position has intensified a longstanding deadlock over who does what and when. 
Government officials involved in climate talks through the years said Mr. Bush's position on participation by developing countries was not markedly different from that of previous administrations -- just more bluntly stated. 
The main American complaint, they said, is that developing countries, negotiating as a bloc, have for more than a decade rejected almost any treaty language that would commit them to even undefined emissions limits far in the future. 
A consistent frustration for American negotiators, one official said, is that countries like Saudi Arabia and China refuse commitments just as steadfastly as the poorest of the poor.
"We're not saying Burkina Faso has to sign up to this right now," said the American official, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity. "But the major emitters, if we want this to be credible scientifically and environmentally, have to sign on." 
Some countries are starting to complain that Mr. Bush's insistence on simultaneous actions is undermining the existing climate treaty. 
At a briefing on Thursday in Beijing, Sun Yuxi, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, strongly criticized the American stance. 
"China can't accept any attempt to violate the principles of the convention and eliminate the protocol," Mr. Sun said. "It is totally groundless to refuse the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol on the excuse that developing countries such as China have not shouldered their responsibility."
There are a few optimists among those involved in the climate talks who see a middle ground that could put the Bush administration and the most developed of the developing countries under the same tent.
They point to a treaty controlling harmful organic chemicals that was signed in April by the Bush administration. The treaty calls for rich and poor countries to move in concert, but it requires industrialized countries to provide the money and technology to help the cleanup in the developing world. 
But the pessimists point to basic differences between the Kyoto pact and the chemical ban and other successful environmental treaties.
Experts say most of the previous treaties applied to chemicals that were produced by a limited number of companies and could be replaced by other, less harmful substances without high costs. Or, as in the case of the climate convention, they relied on voluntarism and good will. 
In contrast, the Kyoto agreement, by proposing firm, enforceable limits on carbon dioxide, emitted mainly by burning fossil fuels, would affect nearly every enterprise powered by coal or oil -- meaning almost every aspect of modern life. 
As a result, Mr. Bush's insistence that the United States will not act until China and India commit to some steps essentially guarantees that the agreement is dead, experts say. 
Robert A. Reinstein -- who wrote and negotiated many parts of the 1992 climate treaty during the first Bush administration -- said there was no chance of getting poorer countries to pursue emissions cuts as long as the established economic powers delayed cutting their own. 
"If I were a developing country," Mr. Reinstein said, "I'd just sit there and say 'Show us what you're actually doing with your own emissions and what you're delivering on in your existing commitments and we'll feel a little more comfortable sitting down at the table.' " 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Greenpeace activists near Norway on Thursday protested President Bush's opposition to the Kyoto Protocol. (Greenpeace) Chart: "FOR THE RECORD: A Sweeping Look At Carbon Emissions"While the amount of global carbon dioxide emissions has been rising steadily, the percentage attributed to the United States is much smaller than it was in 1940. Graph showing the amount of global carbon dioxide emissions from the world and the United States. (Source: Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); OZONE DEPLETION (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING; CARBON DIOXIDE 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (84%); UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) REVKIN, ANDREW C; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2001 



405 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2339 words

HEADLINE: How to Run the World in Seven Chapters 

BYLINE:  By Thomas L. Friedman; Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs columnist for The Times.

 BODY:
 DOES AMERICA NEED
A FOREIGN POLICY?
Toward a Diplomacy
for the 21st Century.
By Henry Kissinger.
318 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $30.
 Reading Henry Kissinger on foreign policy often feels more like an adventure in geology than political science. What always makes Kissinger interesting as an analyst, whether one agrees with him or not, is that he has a take on the world. That take is grounded in a belief that countries are in many respects like geological formations, forged over centuries by the forces of geography and history. The surface areas may change from time to time, as governments, leaders and even ideologies come and go. But the underlying character of nations does not change, or at least not quickly, any more than the contours of a mountain or the course of a river. And these underlying and immutable characteristics shape a country's interests, instincts and habits. Kissinger would probably not describe his outlook in quite so deterministic a fashion, but that is how it comes through, and frankly that is what gives his analysis its own character. It feels rooted, not in fads or game theory, but in the deepest tectonic plates of geography and history.
Kissinger's latest book, "Does America Need a Foreign Policy?" is much more interesting than its peculiar title. (Does anyone suppose that the answer would be no -- America doesn't need a foreign policy -- especially coming from Henry Kissinger?) The book is really Kissinger's geological survey of the post-cold-war world. If you'd like to have a conversation, or an argument, with Dr. K. about foreign policy in the 21st century and how America should deal with it, this book is about as close as you're likely to get. Each chapter takes a collection of key countries, summarizes their enduring features and national interests, and then argues how Washington should relate to them to ensure that no power emerges, in any region or globally, to unite others against the United States.
At first I wondered why Kissinger wrote this book, since many of these geological themes have been touched on in his previous works. But as you get into it, you start to realize that it was not intended for library shelves or academic colleagues. In many ways it has an audience of one: President George W. Bush. 
Although Kissinger could not have been sure that Bush would win the election when he embarked on this book, it nevertheless reads as though he had. For this relatively slim volume is laced with criticism (some of it gratuitous) of the soft-headed, "New Age" foreign policy of the Clinton administration and is addressed to a prospective president who Kissinger clearly hoped would be a hardheaded Republican. One might even say that this book is Kissinger's version of "The Prince," by Machiavelli. Indeed, it easily could have been titled "The President" or "The Statesman." Because, consciously or unconsciously, Kissinger, the Republican Party's elder statesman, is passing down his wisdom here to today's novice Republican president, and to others who might follow. And like "The Prince," this book is replete with pointers, road maps, warnings, maxims and pithy recommendations -- but always rooted in Kissinger's sense of the essential character of countries as they struggle for power and survival, much the way Machiavelli rooted his advice in the essential character of human beings as they struggle for power and survival. 
Kissinger's overarching theme in his version of "The Prince" is unmistakable: America's pre-eminence in the world today is taken far too much for granted by its citizenry. The last presidential election was the third in a row in which foreign policy was barely discussed. Americans seem to have come to believe that they are now so powerful that they don't really need a serious foreign policy -- they can afford to get by with ad hoc responses or grand finger-wagging. 
Those groups who are actively involved in foreign policy today, Kissinger argues, often break down into hyperidealists, who believe "America has the appropriate democratic solution for every other society regardless of cultural and historical differences," or hypernationalists, who peddle the notion that the Soviet Union was brought down simply because of Ronald Reagan's assertiveness, not by a bipartisan foreign policy of containment that spanned nine administrations. These hypernationalists maintain that "the solution to the world's ills is American hegemony -- the imposition of American solutions on the world's trouble spots by the unabashed affirmation of its pre-eminence." In today's complex international system, Kissinger insists, you cannot have an American foreign policy that is based on the United States as either the world's social worker or the world's schoolmarm, ruler in hand. It requires a blend of the two, with a large dollop of humility and caution in between about what can and cannot be imposed on the world; it requires an appreciation for American traditions of exceptionalism, with a constant eye to the circumstances in which those traditions can be brought to bear.
What was said of "The Prince," as Harvey C. Mansfield Jr. of Harvard University explains in his translation, will no doubt be said by critics of Kissinger. Mansfield wrote: "Soon after being published in 1532," Machiavelli's book "was denounced as a collection of sinister maxims and as a recommendation of tyranny, giving rise to the hateful term 'Machiavellian.' " Kissinger's book is not a recommendation for tyranny in any way, but it is very "Kissingerian" -- focused more around power balances, stability and national interests than American values. I have no doubt that Kissinger is as cynical, mean and nasty a bureaucratic infighter and player of the game of nations as his most venomous critics have charged. At times, he can make Machiavelli sound like one of the Sisters of Mercy. But having said that, one can still value the clarity of his thinking, which is fully on display here. 
There is a tendency in some foreign policy circles to believe that you don't have to think about causal chains of events. It is enough just to be outraged about something happening somewhere, and react. 
Moral outrage is important. It can save lives and, at times, spur diplomats to cut through all the diplo-babble and do something. But it does not exempt policy makers or critics or protesters from thinking through the implications of any intervention, or the legacy of history that could weigh upon it. People who regularly point that out, or who are in any way restrained by such considerations, tend to be reviled as morally indifferent. As an analyst and a statesman, Kissinger almost always emphasizes the long causal chains, and what might happen at the end, rather than submit to any immediate emotions. 
"Moral principles are universal and timeless," Kissinger writes. "Foreign policy is bounded by circumstance; it is, as Bismarck noted, 'the art of the possible,' 'the science of the relative.' When moral principles are applied without regard to historical conditions, the result is usually an increase in suffering rather than its amelioration." 
For example, Kissinger insists, with some justification, that in the case of Bosnia the most moral position, the one that would actually have resulted in the least amount of human suffering, was the partition of Bosnia, when it was still possible early in the war -- rather than compelling three communities, two of whom did not want to live together, to form a self-ruling, multiethnic state that had no precedent in Bosnian history and no connection to any fundamental American interests. Kissinger probably treats too lightly the difficulty policy makers had in Bosnia in balancing justice and stability, when the Serbs were balancing neither and mass killing was loose in the land and on CNN. But his basic point is still valid: "Why should a multiethnic state favored by basically only one of the ethnic groups" -- the Muslims -- be imposed by outside military force? What American national interest or larger purpose was served by such a policy?" As for Kosovo, Kissinger makes a strong argument that American diplomacy helped make the situation far worse and was based on a poor historical appreciation of who the Albanians were and what their ultimate objectives were in and beyond Kosovo.
One thing about Kissinger, as both professor and statesman, is that he could always write, and this book does not disappoint in that regard. It is as easy to read as "The Prince." Among his sharpest recommendations and observations to future American princes: "A wise American policy will seek to navigate between a Europe abdicating from international responsibilities and a Europe striving for a global role in rivalry with the United States." Confrontation with China "should be a last resort, not a preferred option." "The dream of the Israeli doves has been that they might live with their Arab neighbors as, say, Belgium and Holland do with each other. But the majority of Arab doves -- Palestinian especially -- think of peace not as fulfillment but as acquiescence in facts they are powerless to change." "The Australian scholar Coral Bell has brilliantly described America's challenge: to recognize its own pre-eminence but to conduct its policy as if it were still living in a world of many centers of power."
As tough-minded as Kissinger is, he does occasionally pull his punches. While ceaselessly scorning the Clinton administration for its woolly-headed approach to international relations, he says virtually nothing about some of the more lunatic, ideologically driven positions of his Republican colleagues. One gets the feeling at times that Dr. K. just doesn't want to find himself in the cross hairs of searing critics from the Republican right. Kissinger, a la Machiavelli, writes at the end of this book that great statesmen are distinguished less by their detailed knowledge than by "their instinctive grasp of historical currents, by an ability to discern amidst the myriad of impressions that impinge on consciousness those most likely to shape the future." It is Kissinger's way of saying: beware of those who go to extremes; always balance your ideology with a sense of the currents of history. 
Personally, I find it hard to see how Kissinger can hold these views and really believe his own endorsements for NATO expansion or for the Bush team's latest version of a high-tech missile defense shield -- an idea that, so far, doesn't work, shows every possibility of unraveling the complex web of arms control and diplomatic initiatives that have kept the peace for 50 years and at heart is driven by a zealous hatred of any form of arms control on the part of those right-wing Republican ideologues whom Kissinger dislikes. 
If the strongest part of this book is Kissinger melding what is old and immutable -- history and geography -- into a 21st-century foreign policy, then the weakest part is his attempt to blend in what is new and still evolving -- the information revolution and globalization. He includes a chapter entitled "The Politics of Globalization," which is largely a rehash of old debates about the I.M.F. and the World Bank, and is not really integrated with the rest of the book. What I hungered for was a chapter that would have been called "The Geopolitics of Globalization" -- in which Kissinger reflected on economic integration, the Internet, the information revolution and the fact that we all increasingly know how everyone else lives and the impact these developments have on the balance of power, the behavior of statesmen and the game of nations. Even if he thinks they have no impact, I would have liked to hear the argument. Globalization is about so much more than trade and financial markets.
Just consider China. You cannot explain the relative speed with which China backed down in the spy plane dispute with the United States in April without assuming that China weighed its multibillion dollar exports to America, its aspirations to be a member of the World Trade Organization, its burning desire to host the Olympic Games and its 54,000 students studying in America and concluded that these ties had to restrain whatever aggressive geopolitical impulses some Chinese generals might have had. Indeed, I suspect that Henry Kissinger was among those who, privately, were pointing that out to the Chinese. Globalization does not spell the end of geopolitics, but it does influence it -- a lot. Jody Williams shared a Nobel Peace Prize for helping to organize a global movement against land mines, using e-mail. Because the Internet so lowers the barriers to entry into the news business, while simultaneously giving the smallest news portal a global reach, its impact on statesmen promises to be enormous. You cannot fully explain international relations today without reference to both cruise missiles and Web servers, to McDonald's and McDonnell Douglas.
Which is why if I had one question for Kissinger after reading this book it would be: Is there, indeed can there be, anything new in the world that could fundamentally shape the behavior of nations as much as their immutable history and geography? Kissinger treats globalization as a fact of 21st-century geopolitics, but not as a real force. 
Everything that makes Kissinger the most reviled, and most interesting, statesman of his generation is on display here: the Machiavellian Kissinger that liberal internationalists love to hate, the coolly incisive Kissinger that balance-of-power realists love to love and the statesman-historian that students of diplomacy have to read. As someone who makes his living writing about foreign policy, I would conclude that you ignore Kissinger's take on the world at your peril. It is too rooted in an appreciation of history and a lifetime of diplomacy to ignore. But you limit yourself to it at your peril as well. Does America need a foreign policy? Yes, it sure does -- one that takes account of Henry Kissinger, but not only Henry Kissinger. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); LITERATURE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); RIVERS (54%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; KISSINGER, HENRY A (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: DOES AMERICA NEED A FOREIGN POLICY? (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



406 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 3314 words

HEADLINE: How to Get an Autograph (Value $2,000) 

BYLINE:  By Michael Joseph Gross; Michael Joseph Gross is a writer based in Provincetown, Mass. This is his first article for the magazine.

 BODY:
In the dark of the parking garage of his Los Angeles apartment complex, Michael Wehrmann, 35, digs through the trunk of his rented, anonymously respectable black Mercury Grand Marquis. A pretty young woman approaches. "Every time I see you, you're looking in your trunk," she says, unabashedly flirting. "What's in there?" He glances at her, blushes and looks back in the trunk, at the professional equipment of an in-person autograph collector -- 3,000 unsigned photographs (filed by name: "Robert De Niro . . . Yvette Mimieux . . . Julia Roberts . . ."), four electric guitars (you never know where Sting will pop up) and assorted sports equipment (for those days when he runs into Arnold Palmer or Muhammad Ali).
 "Just a few bodies," Wehrmann deadpans, still looking in the trunk, then turns to make eye contact again, but by now the woman is almost at her car, both hands on her purse. 
 Michael Wehrmann is embarrassed by his job. He is also probably the best in the world at what he does. Among professional autograph collectors, Wehrmann is widely recognized for being the first to employ paparazzi techniques (car chases, stakeouts) to obtain signatures. "The first person I started chasing was Michael Jackson, when I was 17," he says. "Every day, wherever Michael went, I would go there." (Jackson is generally a reluctant signer, but Wehrmann lures him with barter: "I give him photos. Like Elizabeth Taylor photos and Shirley Temple photos. He loves that. You hold up a Shirley Temple, he'll come, like, running over.") While staking out Jackson, Wehrmann became friendly with some paparazzi, who taught him the tricks of tracking -- how to cultivate sources inside restaurants, clubs, airlines and limousine services to help him keep tabs on the comings and goings of the world's most famous people.
They also got him wondering whether autograph collecting, which he'd been hooked on since a Mets game in 1979, might be a good way to make some cash. When Wehrmann started selling signatures, at 17, the business brought him more than money. "It legitimized me with the photographers, and even with myself," he says. "Now I had an excuse to go out more, because there was a real purpose to it, as opposed to being a kid who's just running around. I wanted to set out to conquer the whole thing if I could." 
Wehrmann is based in New York, but he spends winters in Los Angeles, where he is a leading figure in the core group of 25 or so in-person autograph collectors, almost all of them white men under 35, who make their living this way. The group is bound by a sense of camaraderie (they all have nicknames: Fluffy, Crackhead) that is shot through with contempt. ("I think if it were such a great thing to do, you'd have a better class of people doing it," one collector gripes). 
The job can be lucrative: top in-person collectors like Wehrmann pull down six figures annually; and even part-timers, many of them students working only three or four nights a week, can make $20,000 to $30,000 a year. Most of these collectors sell their signatures wholesale to autograph dealers. (The Universal Autograph Collectors Club, the largest nonprofit autograph collectors' association, lists more than 200 registered dealers.) A few own mail-order or storefront businesses. And some also sell on Internet auction sites like eBay. Their customers, these collectors say, are their demographic peers: mostly men between the ages of 20 and 35 who buy autographs for themselves, not as gifts, and whose favorite products are suggestive portraits signed by young actresses, models or Playboy Playmates; hot names now include Jessica Alba and Kirsten Dunst, whose autograph runs around $115. A signed photo of Julia Roberts fetches $175; Russell Crowe brings in $150. 
Some in the business say that the growth of professional in-person collecting has diminished the value of high-end dealers' wares. But Charles Sachs, owner of the Scriptorium in Beverly Hills, a leading dealer in autographs and manuscripts, takes a contrary view, saying it "stimulates the market and encourages young people to develop an interestin autographs." Sachs also says he thinks that the relationship these collectors have with their product adds a new dimension to the business. "It is a pipeline of material which is reliable to the extent that one trusts the integrity of these people for getting genuine autographs," he says. "When you buy their autographs, you're buying their story." 
As recently as 10 years ago, most of the autograph collectors in Los Angeles were still true fans, according to Jan Schray, a 65-year-old widow in North Hollywood who was among the first of L.A.'s autograph collectors to turn her hobby into a job. In 1985, to help pay medical bills after her husband's heart attack, Schray issued her first catalog of in-person signatures. Soon other fans followed suit, and as collecting turned professional, more autograph hounds began asking stars for "multiples" -- usually 2 to 10 signatures at a time, though depending on a star's patience, the numbers can soar to 20 or higher. (When a star signs multiples, collectors call it "racking"; a really good night is a "rack-fest.")
As the market for contemporary entertainment signatures grew, the character of the collectors turned mercenary, and field tactics became increasingly aggressive. One dealer hired a group of 17- to 19-year-old boys nicknamed the Baseballers (they always wore baseball caps), whose antics drove collectors like Schray to retirement: they marked up older collectors' clothes with Sharpie pens, slashed tires and punched and shoved anyone who got in their way. They also introduced the practice of "ripping" stars who refused to sign -- hollering, insulting and teasing mercilessly. At an Academy luncheon honoring the 1993 Oscar nominees, they made Angela Bassett cry.
The Baseballers are gone now, but they changed the rules of L.A.'s autograph world for good. Young collectors like Ben, a longhaired, rock-star handsome 21-year-old U.C.L.A. graduate who devotes his weekends to professional collecting (he says he makes about $600 a week selling all his autographs to a single dealer), have thoroughly internalized their ethos. At times they have been known to engage in what Ben calls the Beverly Hills Debeautification Program, which consists of strewing garbage over the streets of posh Los Angeles neighborhoods where celebrities live. In the glove compartment of his black Toyota pickup truck, Ben keeps a four-page single-spaced handwritten list of stars' license plate numbers, most of which he has memorized. "Go ahead," he says. "Test me." He spends many days and nights driving around Los Angeles with an eye out for stars' vehicles, which he then follows wherever they go. Results of this technique are spotty. "Kristin Scott Thomas was all scared or whatever when we followed her home," he says. Car chases, he says, work best with young stars who aren't used to being followed and may initially find the effort flattering. One of Ben's friends who followed Mena Suvari before the success of "American Beauty" got her to sign 35 photographs in a Los Angeles boutique. Suvari has since become reluctant to sign. "I ruined her," the friend brags.
As stars grow wise to the autograph-collecting business, some choose to sign only one item per collector. In that event, a collector can run back to his car, make a quick costume change, adjust his posture and his voice and go back for more. One collector's cache of disguises includes a Rasta hat, a drab olive baseball cap with a stringy brown wig attached, several styles of sunglasses and a couple of changes of clothes.
Other stars think they can discourage autograph sales by placing personal inscriptions above their signatures. This, explains Steve Woolf, a professional collector, is where acetone comes in: a light application of the chemical removes the inscription without damaging the photograph. For a client who wanted sexy photographs signed by Robin Givens, an actress who generally refuses such requests, Woolf scored a "big coup." "I got a topless shot signed by her. Had to be creative for that. I took a black Sharpie and drew a bikini top on her. Then I can remove that. She would never in a million years sign that if she knew it was nude."
Surveying such tactics, Wehrmann observes, "As bad as this is and as much as these guys curse and as much as these celebrities know that everybody sells, with very few exceptions almost all of them seem to still sign autographs." He explains that "signing an autograph is really the definition of being a famous person. I mean, what happens when you watch a TV movie about someone who is up and coming? The thing that defines them suddenly being famous is that somebody comes up and asks them for an autograph. There's a scene like that in every movie. And that's the defining moment. That's when you become famous."
The relationship between autograph collectors and celebrities is not simply parasitic; it is symbiotic. For celebrities, autograph hounds provide a very specific kind of acknowledgment that is central to the experience of stardom. One reason Wehrmann has succeeded in this business is that he knows how to give them the kind of attention they crave in order to get the autographs he wants. Over the years, with tact and good timing, he has built professional relationships that are both solid and surreal. "When Keith Richards signs, he always tells me, you know, raspy voice: 'Keep the prices up,' " and "Andy Warhol used to stop and talk for, literally, a half-hour on the street. He wanted to know everything -- who's nice, who's not nice."
Still, Wehrmann has no illusions about the depth of these connections. He invokes the inevitable analogy: "It's sort of like hunting," he explains. "People hunting. You're out there for your prey."
Which is to say, Mick Jagger didn't have a chance.
One day in late January, Wehrmann got a tip that Jagger would be leaving on the 4:30 American Airlines flight to New York. We left Wehrmann's apartment at 2:45 and pulled into a spot in an LAX parking garage one level above the arrival area at about 3:20. From that vantage point, Wehrmann could keep an eye on the curbside check-in without being spotted, either by other collectors or by the greeters who escort V.I.P.'s to their gates. He spent the next half-hour pulling photos of Jagger from his trunk, peeling protective plastic off the guitars, testing pens on an old copy of The Hollywood Reporter, peeking down at the curb every few minutes and calling "an associate" in New York (another collector, who trades tips with Wehrmann and would drive to J.F.K. to catch Jagger when he left the plane). 
Wehrmann is a good-looking guy, nicely built, with thick brown hair parted down the middle and feathered in back. Striding from the parking garage to the terminal in denim shorts, a baggy T-shirt and beat-up white leather Asics, he had the casual vitality of a laid-back Little League coach -- except for the bright red electric guitars he was carrying. 
At 3:50, as a Lincoln Town Car with tinted windows pulled over, Wehrmann got his game face. His close-set brown eyes widened, and the little worry wrinkle next to his left eyebrow almost disappeared. The mild, closed-lipped smile of a happy child appeared. You wouldn't want to let him down. 
Wehrmann thrust a guitar at me as we walked outside ("Just hold it like this," he said. "I'll do the talking"), and there was no time to object because the car door opened and Jagger unfolded himself onto the sidewalk, his bodyguard close behind. Wehrmann had pulled me into the position he occupies every day -- standing in front of a star, hamstrung between supplication and demand.
"Hey, Mick!" Wehrmann asked sweetly. "Can you do two today? 'Cause it's Sunday? And we've been real good?" Jagger, sour and gray, took the pen and made a bunch of vertical slashes on one of the guitars ($2,000 retail).
"Mick, since it's Sunday, and we've been real good, could you sign two?" he said, pointing Jagger toward the guitar I was holding. "How about -- " but Jagger, in silver thick-framed sunglasses, turned his face away: "That's all, boys. Bon voyage," he said, with a weary French inflection, drifting past us through the door.
Wehrmann's game face lasted for most of the drive home; but despite the pleasure he obviously gets from the chase, Wehrmann has serious qualms about what he's doing with his life. He says he's humiliated by in-person collecting, which he compares to panhandling. "If you're doing it with their consent, it's a step above begging," he says. "If you do it without their consent, then celebrities think you're cheating them and lying and being deceitful. So it's kind of a lose-lose situation." 
These days Wehrmann is spending most of his time trying to arrange signing deals with actors through their agents. He pays celebrities a set fee per signature, then sells these items wholesale to dealers. Such deals have been common for professional athletes since the early 1980's, but they are still relatively unusual among entertainers. So far he has made deals with Little Richard, Jerry Lewis, Charlton Heston and cast members from the original "Star Trek," "The Honeymooners" and "Diff'rent Strokes." For Wehrmann the arrangement saves time (a "Star Trek" cast member recently signed 200 items for him in 20 minutes); more important, it saves face.
"When people ask me what I do, meeting women or whatever, that throws me," he says. "I still don't have a down-pat answer. I tell them more about the deals." The deals, he figures, are normal business. "Waiting out front of some restaurant hoping somebody's in there who's gonna come out and sign your thing is not normal." Normal is one thing that Wehrmann says he believes that professional autograph collectors are not, and that word laces his conversation with the bewilderment of an eternal outsider. Thinking back to the parking garage, Wehrmann furrows his brow: "You meet somebody normal, and then they look in your trunk. I mean, would you want to have to explain?"
Steve Woolf, 47, a former sales manager for Dodge who quit about three years ago to sell autographs full time, has no trouble justifying his job. He, his wife, Yvonne, 48, and his 20-year-old son, Jeffrey, own a company called I.P.A. Network (short for In-Person Autograph Network), and in America's culture of celebrity, Woolf says that they and others like them play a crucial intercessory role. "What I am doing is a service for a lot of people out there who are unable to have personal contact with these celebrities and are willing to pay money for it," he says. "I'm the go-between." Jeffrey agrees: "With forgers on the rise, celebrities should be glad that people like us are giving their fans legitimate material and not conning them." 
The Woolfs' vocational idealism is anchored in a straightforward economic argument, best illustrated by a showdown between Jeffrey and Kevin Costner that occurred at a golf tournament in the mid-1990's. As Jeffrey tells the story, the actor responded to his request for an autograph by saying: " 'I'm not signing that. All you're going to do is just go sell them. Why should I do that for you?' So I kind of broke out of my shell," Jeffrey says, "and I'm like: 'What's the big deal, Mr. Costner? What's so bad about it? You've got your millions.' "
Though Jeffrey's reasoning is simplistic, it's not groundless. In an increasingly blockbuster-driven business, in a culture where almost everyone views each person he meets as a means to some profitable end, he may have a point. It seems sensible, and arguably just, that in Hollywood even fandom has become professionalized. To defend that position with integrity, however, would require a kind of detachment that autograph collectors do not possess.
Every professional collector I met tried to convince me that what he is doing is "just a job," and yet almost every such statement eventually broke down, because none of the collectors could hide a measure of star-struck, decidedly unbusinesslike anxiety about what stars think of them. Jeffrey Woolf says that many stars "think you're the scum of the earth. Mel Gibson, Paul Newman, Jim Carrey. But we're people as well. We're people that like movies. That's why it's difficult doing this. An example is Jim Carrey. I love his movies, but I've met him a couple times, and I don't like him as a person."
Another collector named Rich, who is renowned among his peers for being the only one of their number to become friends with a celebrity -- Angelina Jolie took him to Benihana in Beverly Hills for his 40th birthday in December 1999 -- told me one night outside Muse, a restaurant in Los Angeles, that "celebrities are just nobodies that everybody's heard of." Within seconds of his making this remark, Sarah Jessica Parker walked by us, and he added, earnestly: "It's sort of neat to think we have cameos in these people's lives. You know, 'cast of thousands.' . . . "
Such ambivalence among the collectors spoils any attempt to resolve the central tension of their working lives: the question of whether they're really just businesspeople or really just fans. As in any human relationship, there's an economy of enjoyment and use operating here. For autograph collectors, the tension between these dynamics is unusually high, because they've chosen to trade on a capacity for adoration that comes naturally to them, as to most Americans -- the impulse to admire celebrities -- as the primary source of their al income. When the collectors talk about the highlights of their careers, they don't mention the most valuable signatures they ever got; they talk about the times when a star crossed the line and engaged them, whether antagonistically ("Tobey Maguire hates me," Ben boasts) or sympathetically ("Angelina says she thinks it's great what I do," Rich says). Professional autograph collecting, even at its most aggressive, still expresses the enthrallment of fandom. 
Courtney Love emerged one night from a party at the Mondri-an hotel on Sunset Boulevard, carrying what looked to be a double Scotch, neat. She walked directly over when the collectors called her, took a blue Sharpie pen from one of them and signed a bunch of photos. Then, as she was about to walk off, Brian Eick, 28, a professional autograph dealer from Las Vegas, asked her to pose for a photo with him. Instead, she took the Sharpie pen, pressed its tip to his chest and slowly drew a cross over his heart on his white Polo oxford cloth shirt, trailing the horizontal line across his torso. Eick stood immobile, chuckling awkwardly. 
Expressionless, she sketched three little hearts on his shoulder and wrote above them: "You can call me Corky!" Then she kissed him, leaving a big lipstick mark; hugged him; beamed for the cameras; turned and sashayed back to her limousine. One man who still had an unsigned photo called out to her: "Courtney! Please come back! Just one more!" She showed no sign of hearing him.
"I'm from Seattle!" he cried.
Before getting in her car, she looked up, tossed her blond hair and said in a tone spiked with disdain: " 'I'm from Seattle?' What does that mean?"
When Love had gone, Eick looked confused. He tried to wipe Love's lipstick off his cheek but succeeded only in smearing it around. "Damn," he said tentatively, as if unsure of his feelings. Then he seemed to decide he was a little angry -- This is just about my favorite shirt," he said.
Everybody was quiet for a second. Then somebody said, tough and hopeful, "Get 300 bucks for that on eBay." There was a general murmur of assent. Eick cracked a smile. 
All night, as more collectors showed up at the Mondrian, Eick got to tell his Courtney Love story over and over. Nobody could remember anything quite like that ever happening before, and everybody said that it was cool. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Barbel Schmidt); The prey Charlotte Ross; Ellen DeGeneres; Leonardo DiCaprio; Angelina Jolie; Dominique Swain; Robert De Niro; LeAnn Rimes; K.D. Lang. Opposite: Michael Wehrmann, pro autograph hound. ; Your famous name here: Kim Cattrall; Jimmy Smits; Melissa Joan Hart; Thora Birch. (Steve Woolf) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); SPORTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (69%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (59%); ELLEN DEGENERES (59%); ANGELINA JOLIE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



407 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1845 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN; 
Detroit

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD; MICHELINE MAYNARD, who lives in Michigan, writes frequently for The Times about the auto industry.

 BODY:
The United States auto industry, always on a roller coaster, seems to be swooping downward again. Each week seems to bring news of cutbacks at factories, rising gasoline prices, or safety concerns that threaten to slow car sales. But the sluggish economy isn't getting in the way of a wave of festivities planned to mark Detroit's 300th birthday this summer.
 The French explorer Antoine de la Mothe Cadillac, leading a party of 200 countrymen and American Indians (paddling canoes, not driving), set foot at what is now Hart Plaza in 1701. Cadillac founded a fort and fur-trading post at the narrow place in the river where he went ashore, which came to be called Ville d'etroit-- city of the strait. For its first 95 years, Detroit was under French control. The United States took over in 1796, surrendered it to the British during the War of 1812, then regained it the following year under Gen. William Henry Harrison. 
 By the time the automobile industry arrived in the early 1900's, Detroit was already a bustling port and business center. This year, the city has been preoccupied by both the auto industry problems and the decision of its popular mayor, Dennis Archer, not to seek a third term. Detroit's sports teams haven't helped lift spirits -- the Red Wings exited the Stanley Cup playoffs this year in the first round, and the Tigers, in their second year in a grand new ball park, have been struggling once again. But the mood should improve with the raft of activities associated with the tricentennial, for which billboards have been popping up all around town.

Events
The re-enactment of Cadillac's founding of Detroit is among the events planned for Detroit 300, a celebration planned for July 13 to 29. Cadillac's landing will take place at Hart Plaza on Detroit's riverfront July 24, sponsored by (naturally) General Motors. Information: (800) 338-7648, or visit www.detroit300.org.
Stevie Wonder, a native of Saginaw, Mich., who has roots in Detroit, headlines the free Celebrity Homecoming Concert on July 21 in Hart Plaza, at the foot of Woodward Avenue. Other free concerts there include "Jazz Detroit: Swing, Bop and Beyond" with Della Reese July 20, and the Tricentennial Gospel Choir with the Detroit Symphony Orchestra July 22. Local jazz, rock, Motown and classical musicians will perform throughout the July 20 to 22 weekend as part of the Sounds of Detroit festival, held at both Hart Plaza and the adjacent Riverfront Promenade.
On July 22, a fleet of vessels, from canoes like Cadillac's to freighters and sailboats, will ply the Detroit River for miles along the city's shore. The display will include the Ford Parade of Ships, a collection of tall-masted vessels. The best viewing points will be Hart Plaza and Dieppe Park on Riverside Drive in Windsor, Ontario, across the river.
Windsor, whose residents go north to get to the United States, pays its own tribute to Detroit July 19 to 22. Dieppe Park and Festival Plaza will have children's activities, an art display and live entertainment. Information: (800) 265-3633.
The Woodward Dream Cruise is held in Detroit's northern suburbs, with thousands of classic-car owners slowly driving along several miles of Woodward Avenue. Afterward, they park their cars nearby for the throngs to admire. This year's Dream Cruise is Aug. 18, but some owners arrive days early to begin showing off. Information: (248) 433-3550, or www.dreamcruise.org.

Sightseeing
While Detroit's downtown is fairly compact, it is often advisable for visitors to rent a car to reach outlying attractions.
One site within walking distance of downtown is Comerica Park, home of the Detroit Tigers. More than just a ball field, the year-old park, at 2100 Woodward Avenue, boasts a Ferris wheel and a merry-go-round. Friday is fireworks night, and children are allowed to run the bases on Monday nights. Detroit 300 Day will be celebrated when the Tigers play the Yankees on July 18. Tickets range from $8 to $75. Information, (313) 962-4000, or www.detroittigers.com.
The Motown Historical Museum, 2648 West Grand Boulevard, (313) 875-2264, a k a "Hitsville USA," is made up of two modest homes that gave birth to the Motown sound. The lively tour includes Studio A, where many Motown hits were recorded; a replica of the apartment of Motown's founder, Berry Gordy Jr., as well as the chance to dance like a Temptation or sing like a Supreme while listening to the music. General admission, $6.
None of the area's auto plants hold regularly scheduled tours, but it is possible to visit the homes of the auto barons. Two such places have ties to the Ford family. Fairlane, the Henry Ford Estate, at 4901 Evergreen Road in Dearborn on the University of Michigan-Dearborn campus, (313) 593-5590, or at www.umd.umich.edu/ fairlane, is about 15 minutes west of downtown Detroit. It was the home of the auto company founder and his wife, Clara. Begun in 1914, the 56-room mansion is built from massive cuts of Marblehead limestone and has a powerhouse designed by Thomas Edison that still supplies heat. Summer tours are at 10 and 11 a.m. and at 1, 2 and 3 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and on the half-hour from 1 through 4:30 p.m. on Sunday. General admission, $8.
The Edsel and Eleanor Ford House, 1100 Lake Shore Drive in Grosse Pointe Shores, (313) 884-4222, www.fordhouse.org, was built by Henry's only child, Edsel, the father of Henry Ford II and the Ford board member William Clay Ford Sr., whose son, William Jr., is the company's current chairman. The house and grounds are on the Lake St. Clair shore in one of Detroit's wealthiest areas. Decorated largely in antique English and French styles, the house features an Art Deco study used by Edsel's children to entertain their friends. General admission, $6.
Meadow Brook Hall, on the grounds of Oakland University near Adams Road in Rochester, 25 miles north of downtown, (248) 370-3140, www.meadowbrookhall.org, dwarfs the Fords' homes in size and lavishness. Completed in 1929 for $4 million, the 110-room manor, one of the largest private residences in the nation, was the home of Matilda Dodge Wilson, widow of the automotive pioneer John Dodge. It has a hidden pipe organ, 24 fireplaces, and sprawling, hilly grounds. Tours Monday through Saturday at 1:30 p.m. until July 1, when they leave hourly on the half-hour from 10:30 a.m. through 3:30 p.m. General admission, $8

Where to Stay
The 174-suite Atheneum Hotel, 1000 Brush Street, (313) 962-2323, fax (313) 962-2424, www.atheneumsuites .com, is a convenient and well-appointed choice in downtown. It features modern design, and rooms are generous in size, each having a sitting area and a huge bathroom with a deep tub. Bigger suites can easily accommodate small business gatherings. Junior one-bedroom suites are $195; king suites, $230.
Budget: At 1.57 Canadian dollars to the American dollar, Windsor offers options for Detroit visitors who want less expensive comfort. Many of the 389 standard contemporary rooms and suites in the Casino Windsor Hotel, a high rise at 377 Riverside Drive East, (519) 258-7878, (519) 985-5821, www.casinowindsor.com, have spectacular views of Detroit. Parking is free, and gambling opportunities and restaurants are plentiful. Weekday summer rates start at $116 in United States dollars for a double, $230 for a full suite.
Another economical Windsor choice is three blocks away. The 305-room Windsor Hilton, 277 Riverside Drive West, (519) 973-5555, (519) 973-1600, www.hilton.com, boasts equally impressive views of downtown Detroit, along with reasonable rates. Doubles range from $79 to $152 (U.S.), with packages including tokens for Windsor's casino.
Luxury: Quiet and elegant, the 150-room Townsend Hotel, 100 Townsend Street, Birmingham, (248) 642-7900, fax (248) 645-9061, or at www .townsendhotel.com, is in the midst of a wealthy suburb 20 miles north of downtown. It has played host to auto company chief executives as well as presidential candidates. Rooms, some with four-poster beds, have tasteful decor with a European edge and come with plush bathrobes and slippers, Aveda bath products and coffee. The hotel's restaurant, the Rugby Grill, provides room service and is one of the area's top choices for a business breakfast. Rates from $290 to $2,000, double or single occupancy.
The Ritz-Carlton, 300 Town Center Drive, Dearborn, (313) 441-2000, fax (313) 441-2051, www.ritzcarlton.com, is lavish and comfortable and sits across the Southfield Freeway from Ford's headquarters. The Ritz's 308 rooms are outfitted with wood paneling meant to evoke an English country manor, and the hotel abounds with fresh flowers and a cheerful staff. Rooms feature plush beds and luxurious bathrooms, and there are two private club floors, a fitness center and a pool. Doubles from $205, club-level rooms from $245, one-bedroom suites from $275.

Where to Eat
Tribute, 31425 West 12 Mile Road, Farmington Hills, just northwest of Detroit, (248) 848-9393, offers contemporary French cuisine with an Asian flair, prepared by Takashi Yagihashi. The menu changes seasonally. Choices may include sashimi of yellowfin tuna, Japanese barbecue beef short ribs, or roasted rack of lamb with couscous. The imaginative pastry chef Michael Laiskonis prepares treats such as a three-souffle plate that includes chocolate, Turkish coffee and banana-pistachio. Dinner for two with wine about $160. Weekend reservations required at least a week in advance.
At 111 years old, the Roma Cafe, 3401 Riopelle Street, (313) 831-5940, is Detroit's oldest Italian restaurant. It continues to pack in customers who ignore its slight shabbiness and concentrate on the classic Italian-American food. Waiters, some of whom have been at the Roma 30 years, are never afraid to advise diners on what to order. Homemade pastas include paglia and fieno (green and white noodles with peas and prosciutto) and ravioli Genovese. Dinner for two with wine $60. The Roma is set in a far corner of the Eastern Market, which bustles by day but can seem deserted at night. It's safe if visited by car or taxi.
The Traffic Jam and Snug, 511 West Canfield Street, (313) 831-9470, has long been a favorite with students and faculty at Wayne State University. The restaurant's funky brick walls and stained-glass windows provide a backdrop to an equally eclectic menu. With its own brewery and bakery, Traffic Jam features a number of vegetarian choices such as black-eyed pea and hominy soup and a black bean burrito, and there is the big, meaty Jam burger, one of the city's best. Desserts, including homemade ice cream, are worth saving room for. Dinner for two with beer, $40.
Dearborn is home to one of the largest Arab populations in the country, and Warren Avenue abounds with Middle Eastern bakeries, food shops and restaurants, with extremely reasonable prices. Expect a warm welcome at Al-Ameer, 12710 West Warren, (313) 582-8185, where pita bread is baked in a vestibule oven alongside a juice-squeezing booth. A daily $6.95 special, like baked lamb, comes with soup and salad. Lunch for two with juice or iced tea, $20.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Towers of Renaissance Center; Comerica Park, home of the Tigers; baking pitas at Al-Ameer; Studio A at the Motown Historical Museum. (Photographs by Tom Smith for The New York Times) Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Detroit. (Sources: Runzheimer International, U.S. Census Bureau, Fodor's World Weather Guide, local businesses) Map of Detroit shows tourist attractions and points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (86%); JAZZ & BLUES (84%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (84%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); FESTIVALS (76%); BOATING & RAFTING (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); CELEBRITIES (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); MAYORS (70%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (65%); SPORTS (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); ICE HOCKEY (65%); MUSIC (65%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); DETROIT TIGERS (82%); DETROIT RED WINGS (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) DETROIT (MICH)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



408 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
In a Realm Less Grand, A 'King' Still Grooves

BYLINE:  By MIKE HALE; Mike Hale is an editor of Arts and Leisure.

DATELINE: NEWPORT BEACH, Calif. 

 BODY:
BEHIND the stage you can see the kitchen, where cheeseburgers flying Hard Rock Cafe flags are picked up by waitresses in very short, very tight white uniforms. One waitress wears a flashing red taillight right where you'd expect a taillight to be, and the shiny plastic disc bobs in and out behind the seven men onstage like an angry firefly.
 This hangarlike restaurant in the parking lot of an Orange County mall is no place to play or to listen to music; the band's snaky, stuttering groove and the singer's smoky voice get lost somewhere up around the tail fins of the Chevy suspended over the bar. And it's an almost unimaginable distance from the factories and pubs of Birmingham, England, circa 1978-1982, which is where most of the songs the band is playing have their roots. But people are dancing, and for Dave Wakeling, the king of ska, that's always been at least half the battle. 
 The title is lightly worn, no matter how well deserved. (Perusing the Hard Rock menu before the show, Mr. Wakeling mused, "A cup of soup for the king of ska?") As a 22-year-old Birmingham construction worker with radical political leanings and a gift for writing haunting yet catchy tunes, he became a founding member of the Beat, later known as the English Beat. Born the year the Sex Pistols dissolved, 1978, the Beat channeled punk's energy into its own ska-dub-reggae Jamaican hybrid and became, briefly, a major force in British pop. After four years, three albums and little success cracking the American market, the band fell apart.
Now, 45 years old and a Californian for nearly 15 years, Mr. Wakeling -- author of a handful of the best pop songs of the late 70's and early 80's -- goes up and down the coast, playing the clubs, surf bars and beach festivals. But the young, working-class Brummie is still visible in his compact body and rough-hewn face, and Birmingham is still audible when he talks, rendering Los Angeles as Los ANG-gull-eez. The Beat's image in its heyday was of a crack dance band with a sharper-than-usual political sensibility, and that's how it remains in the fond memory of its cultists. But the real draw was always the way Mr. Wakeling, a singer-songwriter trapped in a punk-ska band, could imbue propulsive numbers like "Mirror in the Bathroom," "I Confess" and "Save It for Later" with his own melancholy romanticism, in both words and melody.
"There's definitely a melancholia, and a beauty through that, certainly," he said, cautiously, while submitting to an interview during his preshow dinner. "Virginia Woolf's notion that everything of beauty is cut with a certain singular sadness. And I like to try to stretch that and do it with a wry grin as well, so that there's a sense of irony about it: Yes, it's a tragedy, isn't it? Can we have a dance?"
A quarter-century after the Beat, along with its 2-Tone Records labelmates the Specials and Madness, got Britain dancing in what was to become known as the first ska revival, there is a flurry of interest in Mr. Wakeling's first band. London-Sire Records, which reissued the long-out-of-print Beat albums in 1999, will put out a new greatest-hits CD later this year, and he confirms that the former Beat members have been talking about a reunion to tie in with it. Mr. Wakeling has been doing his part to stoke this interest, serving up Beat standards on recent tours with his own band (which plays at Irving Plaza in Manhattan on Wednesday).
It helps that ska itself -- the infectious, skittering predecessor of reggae that was born in Jamaican dance halls and recording studios in the late 50's -- had another comeback. He credits this latest wave of ska, spearheaded in the late 90's by groups like No Doubt and the Mighty Mighty Bosstones, with stirring interest in the 2-Tone groups. "And at the same time, perversely enough, this 80's retro thing," he said, "which here in Los Angeles, much to my delight, seems to be fueled mainly with either late-teens or early-20's Latinos."
On this April night, his band -- the latest in a series of groups he has assembled since moving here -- is saddled with more than the awful acoustics and the seemingly endless choruses of "Happy Birthday" from every section of the restaurant. There's also its odd and unwieldy name: "The English Beat's Dave Wakeling." This is how Mr. Wakeling, in consultation with the other former members of the Beat, has agreed to bill himself for now.
"In exchange for getting to use the fabulous group name, I'm the only thing out helping the catalog get a mention," he said. "So that's fair, I believe."
The band is a more than reasonable facsimile of the original, easily conjuring the staccato beats, swirling guitars and dark saxophone riffs that defined the Beat as well as General Public, the on-again, off-again group formed by Mr. Wakeling and the Beat's other vocalist, Ranking Roger. (The Beat's guitarist and bass player, Andy Cox and David Steele, went on to found Fine Young Cannibals with the singer Roland Gift; their mix of power pop and Jamaican rhythms came together in one huge hit, the 1989 album "The Raw and the Cooked.") And the band has something else in common with its predecessor: a balanced multiracial makeup (in this case, white, black and Latino), something that in 1978, a decade after Sly and the Family Stone, was still unusual on either side of the Atlantic.
"We were lucky, I suppose, coming from Birmingham, where there had been a loosening of the boundaries between people of different colors," Mr. Wake ling said. "So when we wanted to blend punk and reggae, it never occurred to us that it would be an odd thing to have people of different color in the same group.
"I would love to take credit, like it was a marvelous contrivance. But it was just what was going on around us. It wasn't a big deal, until we went to London and people first commented on it. Then, when we came to America, it was obviously some huge sociological movement."
Also rising out of the Beat's time and place, and out of Mr. Wakeling's affection for the music of Bob Marley, was the band's overt emphasis on politics (not to mention political action, like benefit concerts for the unemployed). Bigger post-punk, new wave names like the Clash and Elvis Costello might have gained more attention in the United States for their songs of protest, but in Mrs. Thatcher's Britain, it was the Beat's anthem "Stand Down Margaret" that captured the mood of recession and nuclear anxiety: "I see no joy, I see only sorrow/ I see no chance of your bright new tomorrow/So stand down Margaret, stand down please, stand down Margaret." "There was definitely a sense of apocalypse," Mr. Wakeling said. "It was like, ooh, you better have a dance, we might not be here next Saturday."
He added: "I fear I have far more to thank Mrs. Thatcher for than I ever could have blamed her for. Every time she opened her mouth, I knew where I stood. Once everybody fully understands what George W.'s saying, I'm sure a lot of people will find they're diametrically opposed to that, too."
After the demise of the Beat (the causes: "The rhythm section going off the boil with each other; us touring too much; me being an egomaniac with perfectionist and self-destructive tendencies. So I was told") and, later, of General Public, Mr. Wakeling came to California to make a solo album. It was backed, minimally, by the ill-fated IRS Records, and quickly disappeared.
As a young man, he says, he had considered going to work for Greenpeace or becoming a Buddhist monk before opting for rock stardom. With his musical career having temporarily slowed, he followed his convictions and spent five years working, often full-time, in Greenpeace's Los Angeles office, organizing benefits, coaching celebrity spokesmen and producing "Alternative NRG," an album recorded with solar power.
Now he's back on the road and in the studio, working with Rick Torres, the mastermind of the Los Angeles techno-lounge group Supreme Beings of Leisure, who is also playing guitar for Mr. Wakeling on his current tour. Mr. Wakeling has an idea for combining studio tracks with samples from his own live shows, "to try and combine the hormones and the adrenaline of the gig with the metronomic precision that's required for the radio now." Mr. Wakeling said he did not want to make music that sounded like England in the early 80's, any more than the Beat wanted to make music that sounded like Jamaica in the early 60's. "It's got to sound like early 21st century Los Angeles," he said. "I don't really want to be the English Beat. I'm using this Beat release to try and reinvigorate interest in my wonderful self."
He has other reasons for putting some distance between himself and his musical past. "I think I'm a bit more soul-grooved than reggae-grooved at the moment," he said. "But I think in some ways that's a reaction of disappointment at the tawdry area that much of dance-hall reggae has taken. I don't quite understand loads of men with highly coiffured braids running around the stage denigrating homosexuals, which seems like a big shock to me after the likes of Bob Marley, who used reggae as a very conscious and uplifting medium."
Whatever form his work takes, it will be worth hearing if it still expresses the vulnerability and knowledge of human weakness of a song like "I Confess," with its moaning opening lines: "Just out of spite/ I confess I've ruined three lives/ Don't sleep so tight/ 'Cause I did not care till I found out that one of them was mine."
"It seems to me that that's where people actually connect," he said. "Not by being really strong and showing off your best side. You can sing in a song about something embarrassingly personal but find a way to put it so it rings those universal bells. That way I think it draws folk together, or closer. That's my notion."

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Wakeling performing in San Francisco; at far left, the Beat around 1979, with Mr. Wakeling third from the left. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times); (London-Sire Records) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); FESTIVALS (78%); DANCE (76%); SONG WRITING (75%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (75%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); WRITERS (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%) MUSIC 

PERSON: HALE, MIKE; WAKELING, DAVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



409 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
If Fans Stay Away, So Does Music

BYLINE:  By JAMES R. OESTREICH 

 BODY:
FROM here it's like watching a tennis match. Every two years, the premier American early-music festival and exhibition takes place in Boston, where the 2001 outing ends today. Every other year, it moves to Berkeley, Calif. New York, meanwhile, leads an impoverished early-musical life, with little of the music itself and few quality performers like those who have elsewhere carried the aesthetic of period instruments and performance practice to later repertories and broader audiences.
 Things were looking up a few years ago. In 1996, the Gotham Early Music Foundation began importing top performers from around the world: most prominently, the Tallis Scholars, a superb English chorus. And in 1999, the New York Collegium put native talent to work under the aegis of the Dutch harpsichordist and conductor Gustav Leonhardt, a dean of the international early-music movement. 
 Now Gotham has scrapped its ambitious plans for next season and is folding its tent. The New York Collegium has evidently weathered administrative disarray, but to judge from at least one prominent recent performance, in Jonathan Miller's production of Bach's "St. Matthew Passion" at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the group is hard put to sustain even the modest promise of its first seasons.
Gotham was the work of two men: Douglas K. Dunn, a lawyer, who selected the performers and planned the programs, and Gordon L. Beals, a foreign-exchange trader, who (though in his own words, "not a wealthy man") provided the financial backing. They entered the field with eyes open. "I very carefully did a lot of budgeting," Mr. Dunn said at the time, "and I was rather appalled at the numbers." The annual budget grew from an initial $200,000 for 7 concerts to $500,000 for 12. Another season would have required additional commitments of $250,000.
"We had a straightforward financial problem," Mr. Dunn said recently, "and if you can't make that work, all the early-music expertise in the world won't help."
With Gotham's demise, the importation of talent reverts largely to two institutions: on a small scale, Music Before 1800, judiciously directed by Louise Basbas as it enters its 27th season at Corpus Christi Church on the Upper West Side of Manhattan; and on a large scale, Lincoln Center, where Jane Moss, the vice president for programming, has applied ever more inventiveness and imagination to the Great Performers series and even to the once moribund Mostly Mozart Festival. Ms. Moss's successes, of course, may have contributed to Gotham's problems.
The New York Collegium, a Baroque choir and orchestra, was founded on the shifting sands of ambition. Michael S. Feldman, its first president, seemed eager to get past the inevitable growing pains and take up Classical and even Romantic music, as if hellbent on following an earlier New York period-instrument group, the short-lived, unlamented Classical Band, lemminglike, into oblivion. Before resigning a year ago, Mr. Feldman announced the replacement of Mr. Leonhardt, never more than a figurehead, with two new music directors: Christophe Rousset, a French harpsichordist, and Fabio Biondi, an Italian violinist. But Mr. Rousset did not appear during the last season, and neither performer is scheduled for the group's five programs next season.
"They are not accessible to us in the way we want," said Dorothea Endicott, who was formerly the Collegium's board president and became its executive director last December. Ms. Endicott is working with an advisory board of five musicians. She hopes to name a new, hands-on music director, she said, a major European figure she would not identify, within 60 days. In an attempt to manage an annual budget of almost $1 million now that a founding grant of $2 million has been used up, Ms. Endicott is restructuring the board and scaling down ambitions in both repertory and performance.
"One priority is to put down roots in New York," she said. "That comes before touring, before making recordings. And we have to define a niche in the Baroque."
Ms. Endicott, who just relocated from Boston, has no ready explanation for the hobbled state of early music in New York, why the city lags behind Boston, let alone major centers like London, Amsterdam, Paris and Cologne. Others have advanced various reasons: a wealth of competition and distractions in other areas of music and the arts; the lack of a magnetic leader, like, say, John Eliot Gardiner in London or William Christie (an American) in Paris; a paucity of appropriate concert settings, or at least of those economically feasible in terms of cost and potential revenue.
"The lack of venues is just an excuse," said Mr. Dunn, who rented numerous halls and churches for Gotham. "And the lack of leadership doesn't apply unless you're trying to set up a performing organization, which we weren't doing. It is a truism but perhaps true that New York is not an early-music town. The audience is of good quality but not large."
New York's days in the vanguard of the field -- in the 1950's and 60's, under the pioneering leadership of Noah Greenberg -- seem a distant memory. Or they would, if so many homegrown performances didn't have a scrappy, amateurish quality redolent of that time.
In New York as elsewhere, the early-music movement has to some extent fallen victim to its success. For a time, when it had the weight of the major record labels behind it, it managed to stake an exclusive claim on repertory up to the Baroque and beyond plausible enough to scare away conventional performers, including symphony orchestras, with their incredible shrinking repertories. So, as a small, specialized audience developed, mainstream listeners tended to lose touch with Handel and Bach, even Haydn and Mozart.
Not even the strictest authenticists ever advocated period-size audiences for early music, and it's a sure bet that such paltry numbers will never sustain a major venture in Gotham. The pity is that so few New Yorkers will ever know what glories they missed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas K. Dunn, left, and Gordon L. Beals of the Gotham Early Music Foundation, which is folding. (Chester Higgins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (93%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); TENNIS (73%); SPORTS (73%); BUDGETS (69%) MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: GOTHAM EARLY MUSIC FOUNDATION; NEW YORK COLLEGIUM (MUSIC GROUP) 

PERSON: OESTREICH, JAMES R 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



410 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
In a Kaleidoscope of Remembering and Forgetting

BYLINE:  By HILARIE M. SHEETS; Hilarie M. Sheets is a contributing editor to Artnews magazine.

 BODY:
PROJECTED on a small medicine chest attached to the wall, a man's face drawn in charcoal emerges to the sound of running water. Soon the face seems to dissolve into the interior of the cabinet, and over the next few minutes strange and elliptical hand-drawn images rapidly appear and disintegrate there as well. A tiny man walking across a ravaged landscape leaves in his wake smudgy traces that morph into jars on the shelves. A bird flapping into the sides of the cabinet transforms into a fish revolving around a globe propped in a field. Phrases like "Doomed Sailor's Chilling Note" flash intermittently. Finally, a man rests his head against a woman's naked torso -- a less clinical form of chest that supplies comfort.
 The images are from "Medicine Chest," the most recent of William Kentridge's 13 animated films, now being shown through Sept. 16, together with more than 60 charcoal drawings from which they were shot, in a retrospective at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in Lower Manhattan. Mr. Kentridge, 46, is the first globally acclaimed South African artist of the post-apartheid period, and his art is often viewed through the prism of politics. And yet he roots his work in the local and the specific: for him it's a way of getting at universal truth rather than simply illustrating the recent history of his country. 
 "The films can be understood as a sort of diary or daily newspaper of one's self," Mr. Kentridge said, noting that the cryptic phrases in "Medicine Chest" had been lifted from actual headlines. "The dominant thing going through the head that day may be: how do I resolve this conflict with a friend?" he said. "Secondary might be: there are crowds marching in the streets. Third may be: I'm in the middle of this book, and I hate the way it's going to end." He added: "It's a real mixture of the political and the social and the personal. Insofar as the films track anything, they try to approximate that process."
Born in Johannesburg, where he continues to live with his wife, Anne, and three children, Mr. Kentridge is part of a Jewish family that emigrated to South Africa from Lithuania 100 years ago. His parents and three of his grandparents were prominent lawyers. Particularly because of his father's work -- representing families of victims massacred outside Sharpeville in the early 1960's, for instance -- Mr. Kentridge was exposed to the horrors of apartheid in a way most other white children were not.
Images of bodies being absorbed into the landscape show up in the film "Felix in Exile," as the character of Felix Teitlebaum, a melancholic artist, looks into his drawings and tries to envision this landscape outside the bounds of his room. Made in 1994, after the first general election in South Africa brought quiet to what had been a tumultuously violent period, the film struggles with the fugitive nature of memory, how those that should remain with intensity get diluted and obscured over time. Spanning a series of eight films, Felix and his alter ego, Soho Eckstein, a mining industrialist variously ruthless and tragic, putter about their daily activities under the weight of remembering and forgetting.
"If one comes away from the exhibition somewhat confused about what's happening in South Africa, then that's good," Mr. Kentridge said in an interview at the New Museum. "South Africa was the emblematic political situation of the world in that decade from 1980 to 1990. One of the reasons it's not really of great interest anymore is that the stories are much more complicated. The easy heroes and villains have melted into each other."
Dan Cameron, the senior curator at the New Museum and an organizer of this retrospective, says Mr. Kentridge has never wanted to be understood as speaking for South Africa."I think what people tend to do when they first try to grapple with William's work is treat South Africa as if it only means one thing," he said. "His primary characters are clearly South African, but they are defined almost by the way they try to ignore the extraordinary circumstances of their life and act as if any crisis can be surpassed, which I think is a tendency in many cultures, including our own. To simplify it by exoticizing the experience of South Africa is to avoid what's universally human in his work."
Mr. Kentridge has been well known in South Africa over the last two decades in art and film circles as well as in the theater world. He first worked as an actor after graduating from the University of the Witwatersrand and now conceives and directs productions with the Handspring Puppet Company, which incorporate actors, musicians, puppets and animation. But it wasn't until 1997, when he was included in Documenta X, an art festival in Kassel, Germany, that his art attracted the attention of curators, who quickly disseminated it worldwide. In 1999, he had a solo show here at the Museum of Modern Art and received the Carnegie Medal in Pittsburgh. The current retrospective, which opened in Washington, will bring him the broadest exposure yet as it travels from New York to Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles and Cape Town.
"If 10 years ago someone had said, 'In 10 years time, these are the different places you will have shown, these are the projects you will have done,' I'd have been jumping up and down," Mr. Kentridge said. He had always felt that he was simply dabbling at film, drawing and theater but would at some point get a real profession, he said. A clarifying moment came 10 years ago, when he was told by a friend that at 35 he was now unemployable and should just get on with what he was doing.
"During the 1980's there was the cultural boycott of South Africa, which meant that work got seen very little outside," Mr. Kentridge said. "There was never an expectation that it was going to be seen in a large way. In retrospect that was a blessing. It meant I didn't have to try to catch up or surpass what was being done in America. So when there was an interest in these films, I knew what I was doing. Suddenly having them in exhibitions around the world didn't really change the process of making them."
Drawing is the starting point of all his work. In the late 80's, he began fooling around with a camera used in animation, one that can be advanced one frame at a time. His aim, he said, was to film "the process of a drawing coming into being." That sort of play evolved into full-blown narratives. Now he may make 60 to 100 alterations to a drawing in a day, shooting frames between each change. He says it's in the physical act of walking between the drawing on the wall and the camera that he finds a sense of what can happen next in his stories.
The fact that charcoal leaves a trace when rubbed out gives Mr. Kentridge's sequences an imprint of time. Charcoal also creates an immediate reference to black-and-white cinema, like the epics of Sergei Eisenstein, and German Expressionist art by Max Beckmann or George Grosz. The anachronistic quality in his drawing stems, too, from the objects he chooses. "There's something about a mechanical telephone switchboard, with wires being plugged and unplugged, that's an easier way of drawing what our lives have become with the Internet than a TV monitor," he said. "It's finding places where the world and drawing meet on good terms."
While both Felix and Soho have come to bear some resemblance to him, Mr. Kentridge says that is mainly because he needs someone close at hand to use as a model. But Carolyn Christov-Bakargiev, the senior curator at P.S. 1 in Queens, who commissioned his current installation there -- of silhouetted figures parading on the walls of a staircase like shadows of past students -- says Mr. Kentridge has projected himself into the scene in the portly figure of a man reading an open book.
"It suggests the way he feels ethically responsible for the material he's using, especially if it's a material that implies denunciation," she said. She added that that he had been intrigued by how the metal grating enclosing the stairwell was redolent of imprisonment.
Ms. Christov-Bakarigiev also points out that in the film "Ubu Tells the Truth," inspired by the 1995 governmental hearings into human rights abuses in South Africa, Mr. Kentridge layers a chalk outline of the despotic king over his own form. "I think basically his work is about the negotiation between the private and the public," she said, "exhibiting one's own weaknesses, and finding the Ubu that's in all of us."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At top, William Kentridge in front of "Drawings for the Film Stereoscope" at the New Museum of Contemporary Art. Above, a still from a seven-minute, 35-millimeter film, "Shadow Procession." (Courtesy New Museum of Contemporary Art); (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATED FILMS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); FILM (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%) ART; ANIMATED FILMS; MOTION PICTURES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (NYC) 

PERSON: SHEETS, HILARIE M; KENTRIDGE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); LITHUANIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



411 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 3; Travel Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Language Lessons 

 BODY:
To the Editor: On May 6 the Travel section published a letter by Benjamin Rifkin commenting on the article by Francis X. Clines, "An Archipelago Called Russian" (April 8), which described the instruction offered by my school, the Specialized Language Training Center.
 The letter by Mr. 
Rifkin, president-elect of the American Association of Teachers of Slavic and East European Languages, could be construed as questioning my credentials and implying that my school is not "reputable." 
 I graduated from Grozny Pedagogical Institute in Russia in 1964 as a certified teacher of Russian Language and Literature, and I have taught Russian for 36 years at a variety of institutions including the Foreign Service Institute of the United States Department of State and two universities. In 1988 I received the Una Chapman Cox Award for Excellence in Teaching from then-Secretary of State George Shultz.
I have also conducted faculty development seminars for many educational institutions and authored and co-authored several publications in foreign language teaching.
Students from such organizations as the Library of Congress, the Rand Corporation, the Harvard Institute for International Development and the Import-Export Bank have chosen S.L.T.C.; surely these highly educated people were aware that universities teach Russian, yet they sought instruction from us. 

BORIS SHEKHTMAN
President
Specialized Language
Training Center
Rockville, Md.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (91%); LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); LITERATURE (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (51%) RUSSIAN LANGUAGE; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF STATE (56%); FOREIGN SERVICE INSTITUTE (56%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (55%) SPECIALIZED LANGUAGE TRAINING CENTER 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (68%)

PERSON: RIFKIN, BENJAMIN (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (87%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



412 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: MONEY & MEDICINE; 
Patients Without a Country: Who Pays?

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Jennifer Steinhauer covers health care for The Times. Her column on the economics of health care appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: jestei@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ANY minute now, the men and women of Congress will hunker down to discuss prescription-drug benefits under Medicare, and the rights that Americans should have if they are enrolled in H.M.O.'s. 
 In the meantime, however, a more complicated insurance problem is brewing, with serious public health implications, and few lawmakers have been willing to take it up: Who should pay for the health insurance of immigrants? 
 A provision of the welfare reform law of 1996 barred immigrants who arrived after that year from receiving Medicaid, the health insurance program for the indigent, during their first five years in the United States.
There may be little political impetus to change that portion of the law, but economic and public health issues have undeniably risen from it. New census figures show that one of every 10 people now living in the United States is foreign-born, the highest level since the 1930's, and cities with declining populations are trying to figure out how to attract some of those immigrants to stem labor shortages. But denying government insurance programs to immigrants at a time when more employers are considering backing away from health benefits in general seems to contradict this municipal bear hug. 
There is ample evidence that immigrants who work are underinsured, compared with the rest of the nation. A new study from the Commonwealth Fund, a health care research foundation, found that among full-time workers in 1999, some 80 percent of whites and 75 percent of blacks in general received health-care coverage from their employers, versus only half of Hispanic immigrants.
The study also found that among the Hispanic population, half of those born outside the United States were uninsured in 1997, versus one-fourth of those born in the country. 
And the issue of who will foot the bill for requisite care for even illegal immigrants can be murky. 
Last year, a 14-year-old illegal immigrant showed up at the door of Kings County Hospital Center, a public hospital in Brooklyn, needing a liver transplant, without which he would have died. The hospital does not perform transplants, so Kings County Hospital started calling medical centers around the city that did. All refused him because he was not insured, according to a complaint filed by New York's public hospital system with the Health Care Finance Administration. When the public hospital agreed to enroll the boy in its own managed care program, which would no doubt suffer a loss on this procedure, doors opened. The insurance kicked in at midnight, and Mount Sinai Hospital took him in at 3 a.m. and performed the transplant.
Kings County could not have turned him away. Under federal law, hospitals are required to stabilize any patient who enters the emergency room. But does "stabilizing" include a liver transplant? And if not, who is supposed to pay for it?
The economic fallout from such questions tends to land on the public hospitals and clinics around the country, which labor under low reimbursement rates for primary care and treat many uninsured patients in their emergency rooms. In turn, these hospitals tend to look to the government for increased help or to close clinics at which they lose money. 
This month, the New York State Court of Appeals ruled that the state had violated the state Constitution by going along with the federal government in denying Medicaid benefits to legal immigrants. But it is likely that other states will still not choose to pay to insure this group.
Offering public health insurance, even at small premiums, to at least those immigrants who pay taxes has some universal benefits. The cost of treating the sickest uninsured eventually comes back to the general population through tax increases passed on as subsidies to hospitals, or through higher insurance premiums.
AND the fact is, whether immigrants import health problems or become sick more often because they lack regular medical care, public health threats can stem from the uninsured in general. Children who lack immunization can spread disease, as was seen last year in a rubella outbreak in the South.
Many uninsured people work in service industries, said Judy Wessler, director of the Commission on the Public's Health System, a health care advocacy organization. "If they do not have access to health care services and have direct contact with lots of people, illnesses can be spread," she said, citing restaurants and other food outlets as obvious examples. 
Barring a prudent change in the welfare law, legislators in search of pork projects could consider a special line item that would insure immigrants. Maybe the Frozen Yogurt Stand Improvement Act?

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); MEDICARE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (87%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MEDICAID (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); REFUGEES (71%); CENSUS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); LABOR SHORTAGES (67%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; HEALTH INSURANCE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; MEDICAID; HOSPITALS 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



413 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: PRELUDES; 
Generation X, Still Undecided

BYLINE:  By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
NEARLY a decade ago, I wrote an article for a Boston newspaper about "Post-Parchment Depression," the malaise that afflicts young college graduates when they suddenly realize that they are facing the rest of their lives and have no idea what to do next. 
 Those of us who graduated in the late 80's or early 1990's -- we've been affectionately called "slackers" or "Generation X" -- were hit especially hard by P.P.D. The economy was in mourning after the rah-rah 1980's, "downsizing" was the word of the day and career options were limited. Personal computers were still the size of the Mir space station, and the information superhighway was a dirt road that had yet to be paved by fiber optics. With few alternatives, many people fled to graduate school, or to teach English abroad. 
 While it became clear that we would not follow in our parents' footsteps -- no 35-year job, no four-bedroom house in the suburbs before the age of 30 -- we still had to find a way to carve our own niche. It wasn't that we had no drive; we just had nowhere to channel it. 
What I did not know at the time was that P.P.D. was not a passing affliction. Instead, it was a chronic condition like hay fever, rearing its head over and over. Ten years later, many of us are as indecisive and confused about our careers as we were when we set out into the world. 
Through no fault of our own, we ex-slackers have become like Peter Pan, searching for our very own Wendy (or Wendell) and never quite growing up. 
That should not be a great shock, considering role models like Mama Madonna, who is touring the world at 42. As a nation, we are in a perpetual state of "adultescence." Fifty is the new 40 is the new 30 is the new 20.
Still, I believe that Generation X-er's were hit hardest by changes in the economy. Just as we started moving out of our entry-level jobs, technology arrived and threw ice-cold water in the face of our dreams. To compete in the marketplace, we had to acquire a whole new set of skills, and we were overshadowed by a newer, technologically trained crop of young minds, sometimes called Generation Y, that graduated into a booming economy. 
"Just as we got on our feet from the 80's boom and 90's recession, we had the dot-com boom, which drove up the cost of living, which meant we were pushed away from financial security," said John Conway, 31, an intellectual-property lawyer at Cowan, DeBaets, Abraham & Sheppard in Manhattan. "We were stuck in entry-level jobs, and the income didn't increase with the cost of living. Everything is delayed, from home-buying to child-rearing. In the middle of the game, the roles changed, and the bar for success was raised beyond our means once again."
Career and life indecision in Generation X shows itself in many ways. Over the last six years, Arthur Traub, 30, has lived and worked in New York, South Carolina, Washington, D.C., Mexico and Brazil, picking up an M.B.A. degree along the way. He has worked in government, banking, telecommunications and information technology, from start-ups to multinational corporations. A few months ago, he was laid off from a high-paying job at a high-technology company; he is now teaching martial arts while deciding what's next.
Two years ago, Julia Slotnik, now 33, decided to abandon her job as an account executive at a Manhattan advertising firm to work on documentary films. Last week, Steve Reynolds, 38, the former head chef at a five-star resort in Granby, Colo., became a New York stockbroker.
Even some baby boomers are making similar life changes. In November, Amy Abern, 43, left her job as a director of a homeless shelter in Chicago and moved to Falmouth, Mass. She is now a travel writer. "I used to look at my mother at 42 and thought she was so old, but now I'm 43 and I still feel like a kid," said Ms. Abern, who is single. "Why shouldn't I try something new?"
I predict that the younger dot-com set, including the most recent graduates, will be better off in their 30's than Generation X-ers are now. To be sure, other problems await the dot-commers, especially those who left jobs empty-handed. But they probably won't grapple with the same career and life indecision that we do. 
After all, they participated in a cohesive vision; they came of age in an economy that nurtured creativity and provided a forum in which it could flourish. They were even placed in "incubators" where they and their ideas could grow. 
THE other day, I was talking to Maura Moynihan, 43, the daughter of Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the former senator from New York. She has been an actress, comedian, writer and linguist, and just recently started her own fashion line. "Your 40's are the best time of your life," she told me. "That's when you really have it figured out." 
One can only hope.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Katherine Streeter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERATION X (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GENERATION Y (71%); COST OF LIVING (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (55%); SPACE STATIONS (54%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%); HAY FEVER (50%); LAWYERS (50%) LABOR 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (65%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (65%)

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



414 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: As Economy Sours, Divorce Rate Rises 

BYLINE:  By STEWART AIN 

 BODY:
IN his 32 years as a divorce lawyer on Long Island, Stephen W. Schlissel of Mineola said he had never interviewed more potential clients than he had in the last three months.
 "You will see a dramatic upturn next year" in divorces on Long Island, Mr. Schlissel predicted, adding that the increase stems from the slowdown in the economy. 
 "In other recessions, the divorce business was superb," he said. "Some of my best years were when the economy starts to go sour." 
That was last true during the late 80's and early 90's, he said, when the Island was mired in a recession.
"To a person, lawyers are seeing 50 percent more potential clients than they did three years ago -- that's how dramatic the increase has been," Mr. Schlissel said.
Interviews with other divorce lawyers, marriage counselors and court officials all support Mr. Schlissel's observations: Long Island, which already has the largest number of contested divorces in the state, is headed for another record year. But Peter A. Sorrento, coordinating matrimonial court clerk for the State of New York, said no figures for 2001 would be available until the end of the year.
Alan L. Finkel, the director of the Divorce Mediation Center of Suffolk, said that last year his office, which is in Commack, handled about 200 cases. Already this year, he said, the number exceeds 160.
Dr. Louis Gallagher, a clinical psychologist and marital therapist in Smithtown, said his practice was also booming.
"I haven't seen it this busy in years," he said. "I have to shoehorn people in. The last two or three years have been absolutely nutty. I'm seeing couples for marital therapy and individuals as a result of marital problems."
The reasons that divorces are increasing as the economy is declining are varied, of course, but sometimes they are tied to occupation. "There are a lot of spouses who think that when their business is valued at its lowest, that is the time to get out of their marriage," Mr. Schlissel said, because alimony and support payments will be lower.
Elena Karabatos, a partner in Mr. Schlissel's firm, Schlissel, Ostrow, Karabatos, Poepplein & Taub, said that some professionals and people who worked in service industries were not as affected by the ups and downs of the economy.
"We tend to see couples seeking divorce when their home is at its peak value and their incomes are strong and stable," she said. "Clearly, when there is ample money to divide, it's easier to walk away from a marriage with some semblance of comfort. The professional person, such as a physician, is not necessarily going to feel the impact of a souring economy in the same way a business owner will. Therefore, this sector of the population continues to seek divorce irrespective of the economy."
Frederick J. Crockett III, the management analyst for the Supreme Court's matrimonial department in Suffolk County, said that last year, Nassau and Suffolk led the state's 62 counties in contested divorce cases. Suffolk had the most, 1,640 cases, followed by Nassau with 1,438. Well behind were New York County with 928 cases and Queens County with 862 cases.
The figures for uncontested divorces last year were 2,595 in Nassau and 2,755 in Suffolk. But New York County has the largest number of uncontested divorce cases in the state by far, usually 13,000 to 14,000 a year. But this year they are projected at 22,000.
Long Island also leads the state in the number of pending contested divorces. Stephen Gassman, a divorce lawyer in Garden City and a former president of the Nassau County Bar Association, said that Nassau and Suffolk "have more than double the number of pending contested matrimonial cases than any other of the 62 counties." In April, there were 1,403 pending cases in Nassau and 1,666 in Suffolk.
The numbers are so large that Justice Jacqueline W. Silbermann, the Supreme Court's administrative judge for matrimonial matters, said she had added more judges on the Island. 
"Suffolk now has eight and a half judges, up from seven and a half last year, and Nassau six," up by a half, she said. The half figures represent judges who divide their time between divorces and other cases.
"The next nearest county in the state is New York County with four and a half judges," Justice Silbermann said.
A major reason for the backlog of contested cases on Long Island is the fact that many of the contested divorces involve a lot of money. The median income on the Island is $79,100, and that compounds the problem of trying to divide marital assets, said Justice Anthony Marano, the supervisory judge of the matrimonial parts of Supreme Court in Nassau County.
"It's not just a matter of listening to a few hours of testimony and then rendering a decision," Justice Marano said. "The issues are very sophisticated and complex because of the financials involved, and a case can go on for weeks and require a great deal of patience."
"These are not the kind of cases you can rush to complete," Mr. Marano added. "The parties have the ability to engage very talented attorneys -- the cream of the crop in the state -- who properly make use of all the tools available, which prolongs the litigation."
Mr. Finkel, the mediator, put the legal costs for a contested divorce that involves child custody at $50,000 to $60,000. A typical mediation of four to six one-hour sessions costs $1,500 to $2,500, he said.
Joan D. Atwood, the director of graduate programs in marriage andfamily therapy at Hofstra University, agreed that the standard of living on Long Island had a lot to do with the divorce rate.
"It costs a lot for a divorce, and people here make a lot," she said. "In New York State you need a reason to get a divorce -- there is no no-fault divorce here. And because you need a reason, you have to go through an attorney. Most people don't go to a divorce mediation service."
Dr. Gallagher, the clinical psychologist, said the high cost of living on Long Island made two wage earners a necessity in most families, and that this often contributed to stress in marriages.
"People have conflicts all the time, and one of the biggest is financial," he said. "If you have two wage earners, the strain on paying the bills is greater, and there are career pressures. Whose job is more important in terms of relocation and lifestyle issues? Who makes more? And a long commute can add to the stress, as can sharing day-to-day activities in the house."
For families with children, the stress is even greater because the children often have to be driven several miles to play with their friends.
"Years ago in the city, everything was vertical," Dr. Gallagher said. "There were a lot of people in one place. Here in suburbia, everything is horizontal. So it's not a matter of going to the fourth floor to see a friend, because he now lives four miles away."
The Internet is another factor contributing to divorces, said Ms. Karabatos, the lawyer. 
"What I see from my clients is that they lose intimacy in their marriage over time," she said. "At night, instead of watching television, they go to the computer and enter a chat room. It feels safe, and at first it's innocent. But with the computer they are much more intimate than they would be speaking to someone face-to-face, and conversations become regular over time. Before you know it, their curiosity grows, and they want to meet."
"I've had three separate cases where the issue involved erotic interchanges on the Internet," Ms. Karabatos said. "In one case, the spouse claimed his wife was having an affair, and she insisted it was limited to the Internet," but he didn't believe her.
"What makes this scary," she added, "is that they went to the chat room not to have an affair but just to have a conversation, add spice to their lives, spruce up the day."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Business is booming for Stephen W. Schlissel and Elena Karabatos, divorce lawyers in Mineola. (Richard Lee for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (92%); FAMILY LAW (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COUPLE COUNSELING (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); LAWYERS (78%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (51%) DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEGAL PROFESSION 

PERSON: SCHLISSEL, STEPHEN W; AIN, STEWART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



415 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Another Age On Separate Stages 

BYLINE:  By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
SUDDENLY, fleetingly, in Fairfield County, a theater fanatic's crazy dream has leaped into real time. Two esoteric plays, each charting another age, another world, are happening in professional productions on two separate stages here.
 One, "Princess Turandot," has grandly opened the season in a perennial playhouse rooted in legend. The other, "Diana of Dobson's," is a long shot by a start-up company in a makeshift space. 
 Time-honored as the Westport Country Playhouse is, a 1762 fable, best known as a Puccini opera, now reimagined as a flamboyant cartoon in a fusion of styles, is not a summer theater's stock fare. But, as if in celebration of new artistic life for the 71-year-old theater, "Princess Turandot" is the first of five productions, classic and contemporary, under the new artistic director, Joanne Woodward.
As it happens, both productions come to Connecticut from Manhattan. For the Westport, the Blue Light Theater Company's "Turandot," closed off-Broadway since Dec. 30, has been reassembled. In Fairfield, the move from the Mint Theater was direct, and more than that, the practical representation of the new company's philosophy.
Miles Marek of Bridgeport, the producing director, and Stephen Stout of Southport, the artistic director, mean to import "funky, out-of-the-way material," in the words of Carole Schweid, the marketing director, for audiences who may not know where to find it in Manhattan.
Cost cutting for theatergoers -- a trip to New York, parking, all that -- is as much a part of the new group's mission as adventure and risk. And for once, Connecticut is the destination, not the tryout place or the tour stopover.
"But we don't need obtuse mission statements," Mr. Marek said the day after last Saturday's opening of "Diana of Dobson's," a 1908 play about the sordid trap of sweatshops (exploitation of women ), the big chance of the great escape ( money ) and real happiness ( love ). "The play was prescient and scandalous in its day," Mr. Stout said.
"Diana" may sound like a tract, but it's a romance, wittily written by Cicely Hamilton. Performances are at the Wien Experimental Theater at Fairfield University's Quick Center through next Sunday. (For ticket information, call (203) 254-4010).
"We're shoppers for plays," Mr. Stout added, emphasizing that social significance is not what the new company is about. It is the rarefied showcase experience and "a little of everything" that the two men want to bring to Fairfield.
For the showcase is in a New York class by itself. Under a showcase code, Actors Equity allows members to perform in plays for no more than 21 performances in spaces that hold less than 100 seats. And here's the kicker: no pay for the actors, only a small -- very small -- travel allowance. But once a showcase production is moved, say, to Connecticut, it must operate under one of many so-called small professional theater contracts. Actors must be paid a minimum wage and theater capacities can be larger. And an audience's frame of reference is expanded. "When I go to New York, showcases do the kind of stuff I'd want to see," Mr. Marek said.
The economic benefits for the performer are obvious. Don't forget pension and health insurance. "The actors come out here, get a paycheck, a whole new appreciative audience and a few weeks in the country," Mr. Marek said."
The "showcase production world," as Mr. Marek put it, are to be found anywhere in Manhattan. Mr. Marek estimated that there are about 600such shoestring productions a year in New York or in the suburbs. A certain number are reviewed. Otherwise, it's pot luck. "If you live in New York, you might stumble on one," Mr. Marek said, "but not in Connecticut."
For its first season, the company's limit is three shows. That's all the availability of the university's rented space (capacity: 120) allows. "Our goal is to find our own theater in Fairfield," Mr. Marek said, and he has his eye on one. "We hope to nestle in the downtown business district, Mr. Marek said.
In the meantime, "Concertina's Rainbow," a new play by Glyn O'Malley, is to have a three-week run in September. It was produced last month by the Cherry Lane Alternative, a mentor project in Greenwich Village.
"We're finding a way to build a bridge between the experimentation and vitality going on in New York and our resources in Connecticut," Mr. Marek said. "We're setting it all up in our own backyard and finding out if we can raise audiences and their theater consciousness in Fairfield."
"Five years ago, this wouldn't have been possible in Fairfield. Now we know this town will respond to helping us continue," Mr. Stout added. About a new home for a new company, he said, "I'm concerned. But I'm not worried."

GRAPHIC: Photo: From "Diana of Dobson's" at the Wien Experimental Theater in Fairfield, John Plumpis as Sir Javez-Grinley and Rachel Sledd as Diana. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (93%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); OPERA (77%); STARTUPS (71%); WOMEN (64%) THEATER; THEATER; THEATER 

ORGANIZATION: BLUE LIGHT THEATER COMPANY 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) CONNECTICUT

TITLE: PRINCESS TURANDOT (PLAY); DIANA OF DOBSON (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



416 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON; 
For Him the Toll Smells

BYLINE:  By GEORGE JAMES 

DATELINE: POINT PLEASANT 

 BODY:
THE question was: When did the revolution actually begin? Raymond Neveil thought for a long moment.
 The question seems relevant as New Jersey observes the 225th anniversary of the American Revolution. But in this case, the issue does not concern a levy on tea, but tolls on the Garden State Parkway. 
 And the authority isn't King George III but the New Jersey Highway Authority, which operates and maintains the 173-mile toll road. The highway with the seemingly endless collection of barricades demanding 35 cents (actually, there 11 toll barriers, and of the 91 exits 19 have toll booths) has led to the emergence of Citizens Against Tolls, a group formed more than a year ago that has succeeded in helping to force the issue into the gubernatorial race. 
"It was in October 1999, in the United Methodist Church in Manasquan," Mr. Neveil of Brielle, founder and president of the group, recalled.
Mr. Neveil (pronounced NEE-vil), a 77-year-old retired manager for the New Jersey Bell in New Jersey, AT&T in New York and a trustee of the church, said he and about eight other trustees had been gathered in the red-brick church to discuss business.
But afterward, the subject of parkway tolls somehow came up, Mr. Neveil recalled. "Someone complained about the tolls," he said, "and so I said, 'Well instead of just talking, let's do something about it.' "
Since then, under Mr. Neveil's leadership, the group has lobbied hard, met with legislators, gubernatorial candidates and the acting governor. It has also issued a financial report on phasing out the tolls, and has staged events to raise awareness of the subject -- as if New Jerseyans' awareness had to be raised.
Next Saturday, as the Battle of Monmouth is being re-enacted in Freehold, Citizens Against Tolls will lead a caravan of cars along the parkway in Monmouth and Ocean Counties protesting the tolls. 
"We had a big rally in Belmar last summer," said Mr. Neveil, as he sat with his wife, Olga, on a recent day in the Shore Rehabilitation Institute after several hours of therapy for hip replacement surgery. "We had gotten some nice contributions by the way, so we hired a plane to fly a banner advertising our group. Parkway officials heard about it and they hired a plane to advertise E-ZPass."
So far, the group has attracted about 600 members, gathered more than 18,000 signatures, set up a post office box -- Post Office Box 497, Manasquan, N.J. 08736 -- and had close to 30,000 hits on its Web site, www.endtolls.com., Mr. Neveil said.
After the October 1999 church meeting, Mr. Neveil wrote a letter to The Asbury Park Press elaborating on the group's goals. Although a meeting in December drew only about 25 people, the January meeting, which featured a speaker from NoMoreTolls.org, a Washington-based group, attracted 80 people.
Among those who read about Citizens Against Tolls was John Millett, a 36-year-old Millstone resident.
"Ray impressed the heck out of me because he's just a class-act guy," said Mr. Millett, the organization's secretary."
Mr. Millett was also impressed that Mr. Neveil, a railroad buff and something of a self-taught transportation expert, had been collecting information about the parkway from newspapers and magazines since the 1980's and assembled a report documenting the waste he perceived.
Mr. Neveil said that before forming Citizens Against Tolls, he had been writing to legislators and newspapers about phasing out the tolls.
Before retiring in 1983, he traveled the parkway for much of his 38 years with Bell in New York and New Jersey and as a consultant to Bell Labs for 4 years and accumulated a list of grievances: traffic jams, pollution, waste of fuel; executives making up to $140,000 a year and getting use of a car; the cost of employing 350 toll takers; a 13-cent cost to collect the 35-cent toll (the authority insists the cost is 8 cents).
Dennis Ingoglia, a spokesman for the parkway, said that he and Mr. Neveil had never met, though they had exchanged many letters.
"He seems like an intelligent person," Mr. Ingoglia said.
But, he added, the Legislature created the highway agency in 1952 to collect tolls for the operation and maintenance of the parkway, and only state officials could change it.
Another group, the New Jersey Alliance for Action, which has studied the financial implications of eliminating the toll, thinks the idea is as bad as a set of square tires. Donald Scarry, an economist who was hired by the alliance to look at the bottom line, put it like this: The state's three million households would have to pay $75 to $100 a year in taxes to make up for a loss in revenue of $120 million to $200 million needed to maintain and operate the toll road.
Citizens Against Tolls might have remained obscure had it not caught the attention of a high-profile ally. Mayor Bret D.Schundler of Jersey City, who is currently seeking the Republican nomination for governor, met with the group last at the Princess Maria diner in Wall Township that since has become its unofficial headquarters.
Mr. Schundler, in a telephone interview, said that he also had been interested in ending the tolls, and while putting together his campaign heard about the effort.
"So, I said to my staff, 'You know, we could save some time to see what these guys came up with,' " Mr. Shundler recalled. "We found ourselves to be kindred spirits."
Indeed, Mr. Schundler was the featured speaker at the group's meeting last July, and has attended several meetings and rallies since then, including one in Waretown last March at which he signed a pledge to eliminate tolls.
In the world of political realities, the question was then raised: Is Citizens Against Tolls just a front for the Schundler candidacy.
"No, no, no," said Mr. Neveil. "Our goal is to get rid of tolls no matter who's elected."
He added: "We're not endorsing anyone, as such. We support Schundler but we support any candidate that will get rid of tolls."
To that end, Mr. Neveil and others have met with the staff of Mayor James McGreevey of Woodbridge, the Democratic candidate for governor, and last week Mr. Millett met with the staff of former Representative Bob Franks, Mr. Schundler's opponent for the Republican nomination. But the candidates have yet to say if they endorse the group's aims.
Members of the organization have also met with the Assembly Transportation Committee and the staff of Acting Governor Donald DiFrancesco, though for now they have failed to win their support.
While not endorsing the elimination of tolls, Mr. DiFrancesco has called for a toll-free Labor Day on the parkway and directed the Department of Transportation to draft a plan to remove the parkway's 11 toll plazas by 2011. That would leave 19 exits where tolls would be collected. He tried to have the tolls waived for Memorial Day, but found that the wheels of government move slower than an old Plymouth on the parkway on a sunny Saturday in August.
Mr. Neveil was not impressed. He saw the plan to eliminate the barriers as a stalling tactic that gained the governor much-needed favorable publicity and the toll-free day as a way of pushing any controversial decisions off until after the November election.
The Neveils have traveled extensively in this country as well as Europe and the Far East, and Mr. Neivel said of his wife, "She wants me to get back to being retired so we can start doing some traveling again."
But Mrs. Neveil didn't seem to be in any particular hurry for her husband to quit the revolution just yet.
"He's put a lot of heart and soul into it," she said. "He's gone so far with it that it would be awful if it just petered out."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Raymond Neveil, a church trustee and founder of Citizens Against Tolls, told friends, "Instead of just talking, let's do something." (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); RELIGION (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); ORTHOPEDICS (65%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (64%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); WEB SITES (50%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TOLLS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY HIGHWAY AUTHORITY INC (57%); REHABILITATION INSTITUTE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS AGAINST TOLLS (ORGN) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS624310 VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES (52%); SIC8331 JOB TRAINING & VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: NEVEIL, RAYMOND; JAMES, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY; GARDEN STATE PARKWAY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



417 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2653 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property; 
Web Services Take Measure Of Markets

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, some real estate executives thought they knew how the rapidly developing Internet technology was going to transform their industry. Real estate was going to be standardized so it could be traded like stocks, bonds or commodities. The vision was that a Nasdaq-like market would develop that would bring efficiency to a highly fragmented market.
 The crystal balls were clouded. Almost no progress has been made in transforming real estate into something that trades like winter wheat, and some ambitious undertakings have failed in the process. 
 But companies, particularly those whose focus is on disseminating information, have succeeded despite the wreckage in the dot-com sector. Executives of the surviving concerns now talk in terms of making incremental progress -- and actually making a profit -- rather than deploying huge amounts of capital to become dominant immediately. 
Each of the surviving companies has a slightly different approach to the information it provides and the way it gets customers to pay for services. Talk of disintermediation -- that is, doing deals directly between landlord and tenant without the assistance of a broker -- has almost ceased. Instead, the focus of current approaches is to use the power of Internet technology to help ease the inherently complex business of real estate transactions.
"You have to look at the value proposition of the broker," said Andrew C. Florance, the chairman of CoStar Group, the largest of the information services companies, which is headquartered in Bethesda, Md. "The tenant moves once or twice in a career, while the broker is in the market every day and knows all the pitfalls. The tenant is not going to wander into that big, hairy jungle alone."
Nevertheless, brokerage and management companies are working to use the Internet to speed up the pace of transactions. Project Octane, a high powered consortium that includes the New York-based Insignia/ESG along with CB Richard Ellis, Trammel Crow and Jones Lang LaSalle, last week announced the formation of Octane Ventures, which it describes as "a collaborative online transaction services platform."
"Right now, if you want to lease 25,000 square feet of commercial space, it takes a year between when you start looking for space and when you conclude the deal," said Joseph L. Fitzpatrick, the executive vice president of Project Octane. Octane Ventures, he said, will work with an existing online company, workplaceIQ, to reduce the time to complete a transaction by making information available electronically. Octane Ventures is buying a 24 percent stake in workplaceIQ for $10 million. 
Some of the companies that have established interactive Web sites have deep roots in the real estate information business. "Our Web site is a logical extension of our books," said Yale Robbins, the chief executive of the company bearing his name, which has been publishing magazine-format guides to real estate markets, titled Office Buildings, for more than 20 years.
But while the books provide data on locations, floor sizes and building services, the information is static, changing only with annual editions of the books. The Web site, MrOfficespace.com, is dynamic, with the listings changing as existing space is leased and new space comes onto the market. The site went into active operation last fall.
Although the system has a high-tech feel, the data behind it is collected the old fashioned way, with researchers calling building owners and managers and asking about space that has been added or removed from the market. "We actively canvass building owners about space," Mr. Robbins said. "We check with them every 30 days."
Brokers are the main consumers of these information services, and some say the wide availability of the data gives brokers and smaller companies the ability to compete with much larger ones.
"Historically, big companies like Cushman & Wakefield and Insignia managed so much property that they had early access to information about what spaces were coming to market," said Marcus Rayner, a principal at Cresa Partners, a brokerage in New York that represents tenants. "The development of third-party information services helped level the playing field by giving smaller brokers in the city information that only the big companies had previously."
Cushman & Wakefield and Insignia, the two largest commercial brokerages in the city, have divergent views on the value of collecting data internally. Thomas Falus, who is president of Cushman & Wakefield's new ventures group, said the company decided last year to sell its database to a company formerly known as RELocate, and later as RealtyIQ, because the growing availability of third-party information made it unnecessary for it to continue to collect figures internally. 
"As commercially available data became good enough to use, we decided we did not need to be in that business," Mr. Falus said. "We got out of that business because others were getting into it. And it allowed us to redeploy our capital into higher-value-added applications."
BUT officials of Insignia/ESG said there is value in keeping track of its core market, New York, as a reality check on third-party services. "In New York we believe in home-grown information," said Joseph R. Harbert, the chief operating office of Insignia's New York metropolitan area.
"We have a staff of 25 people in the region to double check" the information obtained from commercial information providers, he said, adding that the company's brokers are responsible for sharing the information they obtain with the research staff. In general, industry executives say, brokers are more likely to obtain the fuller information than researchers, because the broker carries the potential of a deal with his inquiries, something researchers do not have to offer.
Property managers find the information services useful as well. "I use the information as a competitive cross check," said Fred C. Posniak, a vice president of W&M Properties, the operating arm of a large real estate investment company. "It helps us determine what rent to ask, the amount of free rent to offer and the amount of tenant improvement. It is another useful tool."
Although W&M has its own Web site listing the available space in its portfolio, it also provides information to nationally established services like CoStar so that brokers unfamiliar with W&M can see what is available in its buildings.
Each of the information services has its own approach to getting paid, and there appears to be a consensus among the companies that advertising alone is not sufficient to support such an operation. CoStar's clients must pay to subscribe to gain access to its services, which include listings of available property, financial information and information for preparing studies of comparable transactions.
Company officials said a solo broker buying the basic property availability service would pay about $300 a month for a single market. For a national company with multiple offices across the country, the charge would come to several million dollars a year, they said.
Henry Robbins, executive vice president of Yale Robbins, said the basic listings in MrOfficespace.com are free to property owners and managers. But enhancements, like multiple pictures of the interior and exterior of the property, video tours and floor plans carry a fee. The company also leverages its data and adds to revenue by maintaining Web sites for brokerage companies and a business publication, Crain's New York Business. 
"Other people make you pay for information," Yale Robbins said. "We will remain a free portal and make our living on the enhancements." 
Free is not a popular word at a two-year old competitor, Cityfeet.com. Although it initially made listings available free as a way of getting known, the company now charges $59 a month apiece to show available property, and the co-founders say the revenue is essential to economic health.
"You have to make money to stay in business," said Matthew Shulman, one of the founders and chief financial officer of the company. He said this focus on income, careful control of expenses and a restrained approach to growth are reasons the company is still in operation while other once-sexier dot-coms have fallen by the wayside.
Cityfeet, at its core, is a marketing service rather than a research tool like CoStar, said Guy Shanon, the chief executive. Although the company has many of the classic earmarks of a dot-com, with young people working at desks in a single open space, Mr. Shanon said the company had recently started using job titles to give itself a more mainstream business approach.
The key event for Cityfeet came this February when it went from free listing to the monthly charge. As of January it had about 3,000 listings. After the charge was imposed, about 55 percent of the listings remained. This conversion rate is considered good in Internet circles, Mr. Shanon said.
SINCE a Cityfeet listing is the electronic equivalent of a newspaper classified ad, the company is trying to arrange affiliations with newspapers in the markets where it operates.
In New York, Cityfeet has an association with New York Times Digital, a unit of The New York Times Company. Cityfeet maintains the commercial real estate listing part of the Times Web site and duplicates those listings on its own Web site. Mr. Shanon said advertisers who called The Times to place listings in the newspaper were asked if they wanted to have their offerings carried on the Web sites for an additional fee. 
Mr. Shanon said he plans a similar arrangement with The Boston Globe and Boston.com, which are also Times Company properties. Similar affiliations will be sought with newspapers in other cities, he said.
"Newspapers are the most credible in real estate advertising, and they bring us exposure," Mr. Shanon said.
Unlike companies that are going after large corporate accounts, Mr. Shulman said, Cityfeet is focusing on smaller spaces and companies. "Our site is designed for the one-off guy who has a space or two available," Mr. Shulman said. "He can pay for the listing with a credit card while he is online."
Mr. Shulman said the company is currently profitable in New York and is approaching profitability in other cities. He said previous experience with the Internet convinced the founders that while customers are willing to get information online, they are much more reluctant to do business that way.
"It takes a long time to change people's behavior," he said. That is why the company did not attempt the grow-fast strategy that was the downfall of other dot-coms. "Most businesses are built slowly," he said. "It is very rare to grow fast and then cash out."
Andrew Florance of CoStar said his information service is to real estate what Bloomberg News is to securities markets. Both combine historical data with analysis and breaking news to support people making market decisions. Mr. Florance said CoStar employs about 900 people, mostly in research.
Mr. Florance, who has been developing CoStar since the mid-1980's, said commercial real estate lends itself to rigorous financial analysis more than residential transactions do. "Residential is more emotionally driven, but commercial is information-based," he said.
Costar, he said, offers a portfolio of products that include financial analysis and data about comparable transactions in addition to the listing of space for lease and sale. He said eight of those products have revenue of more than $1 million annually and three have revenues of more than $10 million.
CoStar, a publicly traded company, raised $23 million in an initial public offering in 1998 and $100 million more in a subsequent offering in 1999. The company has incurred losses of as much as $50 million a year, but Mr. Florance attributes that to the capital expenditures needed to establish a nationwide network of offices to collect and analyze data.
In the New York area, the company has about 50 people keeping track of about one billion square feet of space, according to Stephen B. Allegro, the northeast regional director, including 3,817 buildings in Manhattan.
Operating the network is a lot less expensive that setting it up, Mr. Florance said, and he predicts that shrinking costs will allow the company to start posting profits by the fourth quarter of this year. He said the company should have about $70 million in revenues this year.
Many companies have tried to get into the real estate information services business, and the shakeout in the last year or so has been severe. According to Mr. Florance, there were about 400 companies in this line of business last year; currently, the number is down to about 150, he said.
One notable casualty was RealtyIQ, which was founded in New York in 1991 by Bruce Weissberg as RE/Locate. Real estate executives said the company succeeded as a lower cost alternative to CoStar.
In 1999 Frontline Capital Group, an affiliate of the Reckson real estate investment trust, invested in RE/Locate and transformed it into RealtyIQ. The company attempted to establish a national network similar to CoStar's, based on the database purchased from Cushman & Wakefield.
But the effort collapsed when it was unable to lure enough customers and could not obtain additional financing, according to real estate executives. In April, the database containing details of more than 225,000 office and industrial properties was purchased by Octane Ventures. Thus, the data collected by Cushman & Wakefield ended up in the possession of an entity partly owned by its New York archrival, Insignia/ESG.
Another highly touted information and transactions services start-up, Zethus Inc., never even got under way, despite being backed by the Wall Street investment bank Goldman Sachs Group and signing Cushman & Wakefield as a customer.
"Zethus ran out of money -- it is as simple as that," said Mr. Falus of the Cushman & Wakefield new ventures group. "The bubble burst and the capital markets said no. It's a shame." 
An information services company oriented toward investors rather than brokers that has been operating quietly for the last two decades is Reis Inc. Lloyd Lynford, the president of Reis, said the company has begun an Internet version of its service, Reis SE, standing for Subscriber Edition, to provide investors and decision makers at institutions with online information on current and projected rents, vacancies, expenses and landlord concessions
WE support decision makers with real market information," Mr. Lynford said. "In addition to asking rent, we report on free rent periods, tenant improvement and signing rent." He said Reis is a subscription-based company, that sells information services as well as individual reports.
Its experience with Zethus notwithstanding, Mr. Falus said Cushman & Wakefield would continue to participate in new economy ventures, the current round more specialized than Zethus. C.&W. has purchased a 25 percent interest in e PropertyTax. Mr. Falus said that validating the accuracy of property taxes is "a miserable area" for property managers and that this company could help in this function.
Cushman & Wakefield has also purchased 50 percent of the Business Integration Group of Tempe, Ariz., which is known as BIG-e Real Estate. Mr. Falus said the company intends to automate five major back office functions, including lease administration, space administration, preventive maintenance, work-flow management and construction management and project tracking.
Mr. Falus said Cushman & Wakefield expects to decrease the percentage of its ownership stake in these companies as they become successful. And he said the company was still looking for other opportunities to ease what he terms the "pain points" in the real estate business.
"We do not have the ability to do the technology ourselves," he said. "All we can do is find the best of the breed and make investments."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cityfeet. Matthew Shulman, left, chief financial officer, and Guy Shanon, chief executive. Their company switched this year from free listing to a monthly charge. (Justin Lane for The New York Times); CoStar. Andrew C. Florance, chairman of CoStar Group, in a computer-equipped research van. The Web site shows 36 West 44th Street. (Michelle Gienow for The New York Times); MrOfficespace. Yale Robbins, president, and Henry Robbins, executive vice president of Yale Robbins Inc., with a portion of their Web site's display of information on the building at 195 Broadway. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Thomas Falus, president, Cushman & Wakefield's new ventures group. (Librado Romero/The New York Times )(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BONDS (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: JONES LANG LASALLE INC (58%); CBRE GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JLL (NYSE) (58%); CBG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



418 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES; 
From Dead Bank To Red Bank

BYLINE:  By GEORGE JAMES 

DATELINE: RED BANK 

 BODY:
It was the mid 1980's, and downtown stores were being forced out of business by the invasion of sprawling new malls, the population was slipping and the commercial and residential tax base was eroding.
 Red Bank was known as Dead Bank. 
 "The attitude of government was not cooperative toward the business community, and the results were evident," said Edward J. McKenna Jr., a Democrat who was elected mayor in 1990 promising to turn the shopping district around after more than a decade of Republican rule.
Indeed, since the creation of a special improvement district downtown 10 years ago, store vacancies have plummeted to about 1 percent from 35 percent; trendy shops and restaurants have opened; an old movie house has been converted into a performing arts center named after its native son, Count Basie; storefronts have dressed themselves in new facades; and more than a score of special events like the recent three-day jazz, blues and food festival called Riverfest have attracted tens of thousands of visitors.
While there is also a growing number of antique stores, any number of brokerage houses are also situated here. 
Bruce Springsteen, who lives in nearby Rumson, thinks nothing of making an impromptu midnight visit to Jack's Music Store to see how his new CD is selling. The independent film maker Kevin Smith has an office and a comic book store and has even shot some scenes here of films like "Chasing Amy" and "Dogma."
People can dine at any of 80 restaurants and then drift over to a women's boutique like Coco Pari, which is still open at ll on Saturday night.
Yet despite the newfound prosperity in this 1.7 square mile town on the Navesink River -- a mixture of blue- and white-collar families -- sentiment appears to be growing that there has been too much economic development downtown -- bringing with it increased traffic and parking problems -- and not enough being done for other parts of town.
Just how much dissatisfaction there actually is is hard to say in this town -- about 25 percent black and 6 percent Hispanic -- but the only Republican to win a seat on the council in recent years, Jennifer Beck, a 34-year-old public relations woman in Trenton, ran on the slogan "For the whole town, not just the downtown." 
Moreover, she raised enough public concern over a proposal by the administration to build a 570-space parking garage at a cost of $8.4 million that the Democratically controlled council voted it down in April. Some see the defeat, despite Red Bank's past successes, as a sea change in public attitude over how the town has grown and where it is going.
"I don't think there is anyone of us who would say the revival of Red Bank hasn't been positive," Ms. Beck said. "I think the people of Red Bank are very proud of seeing the downtown doing so well."
But with that acknowledgement comes some concern "that the pendulum may have gone too far and that we need to refocus our energy and resources on our neighborhoods."
For his part, Mayor McKenna, a 51-year-old lawyer, said the downtown revitalization benefited the whole town of 11,800 by raising property values and stabilizing the tax base. "We made a conscious effort to sit down and make our town user-friendly for the business community with the goal of protecting our residential districts," he said.
In the beginning, Mr. McKenna and his Democratic colleagues held public meetings and talked about the creation of a special improvement district. In 1991, the district came into existence with the creation of the Red Bank RiverCenter, an alliance of the business community and local government consisting of an executive director and a 30-member board to oversee the revitalization. At first, commercial property owners agreed to pay 28 cents on every $100 of assessed valuation for improvements in the district. That is now up to 36 cents for property owners on Broad Street and 31 cents for the rest of the district.
The McKenna administration also cut loose members of the planning and zoning boards who did not agree with their vision to speed up the approval process for potential new businesses.
"The McKenna administration was a new, charismatic, high-energy movement," said Tracy Challenger, who stepped down as executive director of RiverCenter last fall, after five years. "And it was really a sweeping change."
Aside from promoting Red Bank's reputation inside and outside of town, Ms. Challenger is given credit for starting Streetscape, a project that included widening the sidewalks, laying bricks, putting up benches and installing period lighting in keeping with the late-1890's look of Broad Street, the main shopping thoroughfare.
Streetscape also encouraged the renovation of about 60 buildings that had been neglected for years, she said.
"I'd have to say the revitalization helped, compared to where it was before all the revitalization started, absolutely," said David Prown, the 41-year-old third generation owner of Prown's, a variety store dating to 1925. "Eighty-nine to '93 were just horrid years."
Nicole Caivano, the third-generation owner of Mustillo's, a bridal shop dating to 1942, said that the company had built a steady client base over the years, but that the town's revival expanded it.
"A lot of people come in and say, 'Oh, we had dinner at the Bistro and we noticed the dress in your window,' " said Ms. Caivano. "So I think the restaurants are very good for business."
After scouting locations for about a year with her husband, Anthony, Kimberly Lindau opened the women's store Coco Pari. 
"It's been phenomenal," Mr. Lindau said one recent afternoon as he stood near the entrance to the store, which opened about a year ago. "I have friends that have stores in South Beach, SoHo, Boston, California and I've never seen a location like this. It's virtually 12 months a year."
He said a friend in the Hamptons was paying three times the rent, but business was dead after 5 P.M. and in the off-season. "She pays $38,000 a year," he added. "She could have rented a store here for like maybe $7,500."
Initially, the improvement district was supposed to include the commercial areas on the West Side of town, but a lawsuit by a property owner in the neighborhood -- which is largely residential -- squelched that. Officials decided to limit the district to downtown and eventually include other areas -- something that has not yet happened.
But now, said Mary Mann, who succeeded Ms. Challenger as executive director of RiverCenter last November, resentment had been growing as residents saw how the downtown had benefited. 
"Many assume the borough has been pouring money into the downtown, but they don't realize that RiverCenter is privately funded," said Ms. Mann. "Therefore they think all the events, marketing, promotion bricks and mortar, including Streetscape, benches and facade improvements are funded by the borough when in fact they are funded by RiverCenter."
Streetscape, for instance, was a $1.8 million project, of which RiverCenter paid $1.3 millon out of assessments of the improvement district, Ms. Challenger said, allowing the government to use its resources for such public improvements as Riverside Gardens, a park with a circular lawn surrounded by elevated gardens leading to the river.
In her few months on the job, Ms. Mann has been working to open lines of communication with other parts of town and dispel the notion that downtown merchants were receiving preferential treatment. She recently met the West Side Community Group, a homeowners' organization, and also made it a point for RiverCenter to create events and promotions that were borough-wide.
"I do see my role as showing the benefits of the special improvement district to the whole town and using the special improvement district as a way to unite the whole town," Ms. Mann said.
Danny Murphy, the owner of Danny's Steak House on the West Side who is president of the Arts and Antiques District, another nonprofit group, praised Ms. Mann's efforts. A member of the RiverCenter board for nine years, he quit about a year ago because he felt the organization was not showing enough interest in the West Side.
"Since Mary came on board, a lot of that is past history," said Mr. Murphy.
As for the parking situation, Mayor McKenna said that despite the recent successes, he did not see the increased traffic as a bad thing.
"If we didn't have the traffic, we wouldn't have the people," he said, "which means we wouldn't have the business."

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Prown, left, the owner of a variety store, says before the revitalization of Broad Street, business was "horrid." (Photographs by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times) Map of New Jersey highlighting Red Bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FILM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); MUSIC STORES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); JAZZ & BLUES (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (74%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (73%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (73%); BOOKSTORES (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%); TRENDS (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (61%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (61%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; PARKING 

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (50%) JAMES, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) RED BANK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



419 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: One Setback Can Send Arts Group to Brink 

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA KUEHL 

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
THE closing of the American Stage Company was not the only disturbing news to hit New Jersey's arts community recently.
 Strapped for cash, the Playwrights Theater of New Jersey in Madison scrubbed performances of the winning plays in its statewide young playwrights contest. Peters Valley Craftsmen, a craft education center in Layton, begged for emergency aid to avoid bankruptcy. At the American Repertory Ballet in New Brunswick, subscriptions were down; at the New Jersey Shakespeare Festival in Madison, the deficit was up. 
 Don't blame the economy, arts executives said. Overambitious programming, new leadership and even the vigor of the marketplace not so long ago were to blame.
On a deeper level, they said, inadequate financing caused many of the problems. But that is a persistent threat whatever the Dow Jones does.
Arts nonprofits generally rely on government grants and private aid for a substantial portion of their budgets. So in good times and bad they must hang their fate on the fitful generosity of strangers: "Anyone who would care to donate money," Ken Pierson, the executive director of Peters Valley, said hopefully, "we're more than happy to take it."
In such a volatile environment, a single setback -- a grant that falls through or a snowstorm on a show date -- can upset the balance.
Overambition caused the near-fatal fall of the craft center, which was more than $200,000 in debt, board members said. State and foundation contributions were rising, in recognition of the center's programming, even as expenses dwarfed income.
At the American Repertory Ballet, a transition in leadership led to rocky times, said Oceola Bragg, the managing director. Graham Lustig, the artistic director appointed in mid-1999, has mounted works that won critical acclaim but left some former subscribers cold, she said. The company's subscription package also changed, which irritated others.
This winter, when a snowstorm forced the cancellation of two performances of "The Nutcracker," Ms. Bragg said, "we lost $40,000, easily."
Like Peters Valley, the ballet company turned to the state arts council. Last month the council announced a pilot program to help groups qualify for emergency aid to regain their stride. The craft center, the ballet and the Cape May Jazz Festival, which has had periodic budget imbalances, will be the first to benefit.
Meanwhile, at the Shakespeare festival, the deficit rose to about $150,000 from about $50,000, said Bonnie J. Monte, the artistic director. Out of a $2.4 million budget, that's small, but it is a reminder of a tough year in which many staff members left, she said.
"It all comes back to funding," she said. "I can't compete with the salaries in the profit world." With the vacancies, tasks essential for successful fund-raising didn't get done.
When donations fell short at the Playwrights Theater, the artistic director, John Pietrowski, had to make a choice: cut a program or suspend making payments against a deficit.
The ethos used to be, "Hey, we're artists, and the arts are always in trouble financially," so deficits are no big deal, he said. "That isn't true anymore." He chose to sacrifice the young playwrights showcase to live another day.
"Sometimes if you're not keeping track of your finances very well, and if you're not willing to kind of look at the long term," he said, "you can run yourself out of business." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); BALLET (89%); DANCE (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); JAZZ & BLUES (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%) CULTURE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: KUEHL, CLAUDIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



420 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2192 words

HEADLINE: Waiting To Go On 

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA KUEHL 

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
WHEN the American Stage Company in Teaneck, spiraling into debt, canceled the second half of its season in March, arts executives across New Jersey double-checked their books and counted their blessings.
 "It's like, 'There but for the grace of God . . . ,' " said Laura Ekstrand, the artistic director of the Dreamcatcher Repertory Theater in Bloomfield. "When something like that happens, it rattles people." 
 The crisis recalled the arts community's distress last fall after the collapse of the Crossroads Theater Company in New Brunswick. In each case, public and private grants and donations could not keep pace with a respected troupe's artistic ambitions. It's a bitter reversal of fortune feared by many New Jersey artists, who must compete in a crowded and talent-rich field for limited money. 
To help others avoid that fate, arts supporters have been lobbying lawmakers here for $5 million more for the New Jersey State Council on the Arts to distribute to the state's theaters, performance halls, dance companies, orchestras and art museums.
But as the Legislature prepares to vote later this month on the budget for the 2002 fiscal year, the precarious economy and the sobering news that state revenues may fall short of projections by about $1 billion appear to have undermined the campaign.
"I don't want to give a false sense of hope," said Assemblyman Leonard Lance, the chairman of the General Assembly's Budget Committee. "We are going to have to tighten our belts to some extent, and I'm not sure there can be an increase in various programs."
Ann Marie Miller, the executive director of ArtPride, countered gamely, "There's always hope." Her group works to raise appreciation and support for the arts. "We can't just freeze at the point where we are right now," she warned.
This fiscal year the state budgeted $21.9 million to the arts council and specific arts groups. The proposed budget for the fiscal year that begins July 1 dips to $20.7 million, or less than one-tenth of 1 percent of the state's overall budget of more than $23 billion.
Meanwhile, demand for state support this year was the highest ever, with more than 200 arts groups seeking $32.7 million. According to arts council figures, about 165 split less than $19.5 million, and $4.1 million of that went to three heavyweights: the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra and New Jersey Performing Arts Center, both in Newark, and the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn.
Arts executives describe the competition for a share of that appropriation, and for corporate and foundation money, as brutal and draining. Mark Roxey, co-founder of the Roxey Ballet Company in Lambertville, which received no state support this year, said the struggle took an emotional and physical toll. Without adequate financing, he said, "you have to question how long you can sustain that quality and that level of work."
Across the state, the stress is starting to show. Usually arts executives vent about perceived injustices in one-on-one conversations: rural groups complain about the favored status of urban ones, while small or struggling groups bemoan operating in the shadows of large, established ones. But a recent falling-out between some South Jersey groups and the arts council has been uncharacteristically noisy and public.
At issue is whether the council has shortchanged the south of some $2 million, in violation of four-year-old budget language intended to redress what some in the south say is the historic underfinancing of cultural development there. Council members deny the accusation and Attorney General John J. Farmer Jr. has backed them; a Senate committee, whose chairman is from South Jersey, devoted an afternoon to airing the grievance. South Jersey lawmakers have vowed to tighten the language to make sure that 25 percent of the arts council's grants end up in the south.
"I've always taken the position there is no North Jersey, there is no South Jersey, there is no East or West," said Leonard M. Fisher, the chairman of the arts council. "We are all one family." When he conveys that in speeches, some people applaud; others glower.
For those hoping to heal the family's dysfunction, the benchmark year is 1989, when the arts appropriation topped $23 million -- almost 0.2 percent of the state's $11.9 billion budget. But in 1991, a recession led lawmakers to cut the arts budget to $11.7 million. As the economy recovered, the arts appropriation grew, but it has never regained its 1989 level. Making matters worse, Ms. Miller said, the current allocation is equivalent to less than $16 million in 1989 dollars.
Looked at another way, if the arts appropriation once again accounted for the same percentage of the state budget as it did in 1989, the arts community would share $46 million in 2002.
In New Jersey, groups can ask the state for up to 20 percent of their annual operating budgets. On average, North Jersey grant recipients must settle for about 8 percent, while recipients in South Jersey receive about 16 percent to help compensate for the lack of corporate support there, said Barbara Russo, executive director of the arts council.
For this fiscal year, NJPAC asked for $2 million in operating support -- about 9 percent of its projected operating budget -- and got $1.5 million, even as the arts council's grant panel lauded NJPAC's programming as "high quality, diverse and challenging." The New Jersey Symphony asked for $2.6 million -- 20 percent of its budget -- and got less than $1.6 million. Paper Mill requested $2 million and got slightly more than $1 million -- less than 6 percent of its budget.
Still, for struggling groups that would rejoice to receive an extra $10,000 or $20,000 -- or anything at all -- such numbers provoke envy, as does this fact of life: groups that draw large audiences and hefty state support also siphon big donations from individuals and corporations.
For example, the Prudential Insurance Company of America has given NJPAC about $14.7 million since 1995, including lines of credit, a Prudential spokeswoman said. And this year, more than a dozen individuals gave $10,000 or more to Paper Mill.
Arts nonprofits generally count on receiving 40 percent or more of their budgets from corporate and individual donations and government aid. Nationwide, donations are more likely to flow to religion, education and health and human services organizations than to the arts, according to Giving USA 2001, an annual report on philanthropy. In New Jersey, arts executives complain that many corporations are reluctant to give.
"This is a state that is one of the richest -- you think I'm going to say in money, it is -- but it's one of the most culturally rich states in the nation," said Bonnie J. Monte, the artistic director of the New Jersey Shakespeare Festival. "And that brings the state a huge amount of economic advantages. And not just economic advantages, it makes the state very special. And I wish that people paid a little bit more attention to that."
Two of the state's biggest corporate donors, Prudential and Johnson & Johnson, increased their grants to the arts this fiscal year, officials said. "We recognize the value the arts play in making a healthy community," said Michael Bzdak, the director of corporate contributions at Johnson & Johnson in New Brunswick. And Prudential, celebrating 125 years in Newark, gave almost $9 million to the arts through the Prudential Foundation, a spokeswoman said.
But some corporations have other charitable priorities, said Barbara Rambo, the executive director of the Council of New Jersey Grantmakers. "It's tough when you're focusing on the arts," she said; businesses tend to give to organizations "which mesh nicely with their business mission."
Among foundations, the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation in Morristown has given $44.5 million to arts groups and programs since 1976. That begins to explain why, when "Dodge" is uttered, some arts executives practically genuflect.
Apart from the money, they praise Dodge for its approach to growth. The foundation sponsors workshops that teach nonprofits how to reshape their management, to reap the most from their assets and to weather inevitable transitions and crises, said Alexandra Christy, the Dodge senior program officer.
"The buzzword in the foundation world is, quote-unquote, 'capacity-building,' " she said. "In many ways, of course, organizations need cash. In other ways they need help making their internal organization strong so their capacity to spend that cash is honed and smart."
THE budget cuts of 1991 permanently changed the state's arts landscape.
"A lot of arts organizations were destabilized," said Mr. Fisher, the arts council chairman. "Some of them are still getting back on their feet." And some folded. In a 1999 report to the council, the management of the Tony-winning Crossroads Theater pegged the start of its downward slide to the cuts. Across the state, few were spared.
The cuts forced the New Jersey Ballet Company in Livingston into "survival mode": staff layoffs, a shorter season, a pay freeze and other economies, said Carolyn Clark, the company's founder and director.
"We are beginning to come out of it," Ms. Clark said. But like Crossroads, the company never returned to the level of state aid it once received.
"We feel very sad," Ms. Clark said, "no longer angry or bitter, just sad, because so much more could have been done in New Jersey."
In the mid-1990's, the state arts budget began to climb back, mirroring a nationwide trend. "When the economy began to recover, our budgets recovered as well," said Kimber Craine, the spokesman for the National Assembly of State Arts Agencies in Washington. But in 1996 the arts community absorbed another blow after Congress, reacting to controversial artwork, slashed the budget for the National Endowment for the Arts by almost 40 percent. Grants to New Jersey dropped to $860,400 from $3 million, a decrease of more than 70 percent. The grants have since inched up, to about $1.1 million this year.
"What we went through in the 90's was horrifying," said Laura Aden, the executive director of the New Jersey Theater Alliance. "It was really a very difficult time for the arts both on the state level and nationally. But we've survived, and in some ways we're stronger."
Arts groups have become "more sophisticated," Ms. Miller of ArtPride said, "in terms of understanding what they need to do to survive and to grow. Certainly, 5 or 10 years ago people weren't thinking about building endowments or cash reserves."
Now, on a per capita basis, New Jersey ranks sixth among the states in the amount its Legislature earmarks for its state arts agency, according to the arts agencies assembly. Yet many of the state's arts organizations remain financially unstable.
In response, last July the Legislature approved a cultural trust fund to help arts and history groups build endowments, make capital improvements and otherwise beef up their finances. Under the trust, the state may allot up to $100 million over 10 years as a match for up to $100 million in private donations.
So far, the state's contribution to the fund has been just $1 million, to match a $1 million donation from the Dodge Foundation. No interest can flow from the trust until it reaches $20 million.
An endowment or cash reserve could have written a second act for American Stage. Founded in 1986, the company earned a reputation for developing shows that moved to the New York stage and beyond, like "Forever Plaid" and "I Love You, You're Perfect, Now Change."
In announcing the halt to the season, Amie Gartenberg, the president of American Stage's board of trustees, spoke of a "dramatic drop" in the stock market that caused potential donors to retrench. But documents on file with the arts council and an interview with Matthew Parent, the former artistic director, gave a fuller picture. The season started with a deficit of almost $79,000; the board shut down when it was clear that number would probably double by season's end, Mr. Parent said.
The Dodge Foundation dropped its support, although it warned the theater a year in advance. Another foundation bowed out, too, Mr. Parent said, and the grant from the state arts council decreased slightly, even as the council's grant review panel questioned whether the theater could meet its financial goals.
The company adopted an expanded season of more diverse plays this year to address the complaints of donors, Mr. Parent said. The arts council's reviewers had termed the theater's programming "unimpressive and unambitious."
"It's a Catch-22," he said. " 'Be better, and we'll give you more money.' We started making plans to be better, and then the cuts came."
The Dodge Foundation once asked grant recipients for their version of a "more livable" world, said David Grant, the executive director. One response, he said: arts spending should equal defense spending. "I'd be happy," he added, "to equal pro sports spending."
The reality is that the sum of what the state, the N.E.A., Dodge and Prudential were able to bestow on New Jersey arts groups and artists this year would bankroll a single, medium-size Hollywood movie.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from top left, Paper Mill Playhouse, Playwrights Theater, the Roxey Ballet Company, the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra, Peters Valley Craftsmen, Dreamcatcher Repertory Theater, NJPAC, Appel Farm Arts and Music Center, Crossroads Theater and the Cape May Jazz Festival. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times); (Jill C. Becker); (Norman Y. Lono); (S. B. Carosso); (Nancy Wegard for The New York Times); Lawrence Goldman, president of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, at a hearing about state financing. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER COMPANIES (91%); THEATER (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BALLET (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); DANCE (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (71%); LOBBYING (68%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (66%) CULTURE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (59%) NEW JERSEY STATE COUNCIL ON THE ARTS 

PERSON: LEONARD LANCE (58%) KUEHL, CLAUDIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



421 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS; 
Has DiFrancesco Learned From Whitman's Mistakes?

BYLINE:  By David M. Halbfinger; David M. Halbfinger is Trenton bureau chief of The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
The portrait of Christie Whitman hung in the State House recently is utterly lifelike in more than one respect. It shows her desk as spotless.
 On her way out the door Mrs. Whitman did a magical job of making nettlesome problems like a faltering economy and stalled talks over a Newark arena seem to disappear. But her budget and arena plans turned out to be worth as much as the paper they were printed on. 
 When Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco took over, the tasks overflowing his in box -- Mrs. Whitman's unfinished business, plus the Senate presidency and a career-climaxing campaign for governor -- seemed enough to bury him in an avalanche. Twelve weeks later, his load lightened when he took himself out of the governor's race and said he would leave politics altogether.
But the last seven weeks have not been clear sailing for Mr. DiFrancesco, who has gotten into an unfamiliar bind, and in the eyes of some fellow Republicans, made some of the same mistakes for which Mrs. Whitman was famous.
Boiled down to a few words, Mr. DiFrancesco's dilemma is this: personal legacy, or party loyalty?
His Republican Party is in its worst shape in a decade, with Democrats growing cockier every day over their chances of recapturing both houses of the Legislature. His handpicked replacement in the governor's race, Bob Franks, is facing an increasingly threatening primary challenge from Mayor Bret D. Schundler of Jersey City. And Mayor James E. McGreevey of Woodbridge awaits in the fall with a record-breaking campaign war chest.
Yet Mr. DiFrancesco has repeatedly antagonized, irritated and even endangered fellow Republicans who have much to lose in November.
He did so on May 21, by unexpectedly posting a June 7 Senate vote on the controversial proposal for a constitutional amendment requiring parental notification for minors seeking abortions. Anti-abortion groups wanted the bill voted on before the June 26 primary in the hopes that they could squeeze supporters of abortion rights like John O. Bennett, the majority leader, and Diane Allen of Burlington County who face credible primary challenges from abortion opponents.
But Mr. Bennett, after all, is next in line to be Senate president as long as he and the Republican majority are still around next year.
Mr. DiFrancesco later relented, delaying the vote until June 28. But a message had been conveyed.
He did so on May 24 by announcing a $150 million bailout of Camden, a Democratic stronghold seen by Republicans as a constantly flushing toilet bowl for state money, without gaining support from legislators in his party. The proposal died a quiet death after local officials decried it as a takeover and Republicans in Trenton choked on the price tag.
"The problem was no communication," said a Republican legislative aide. "He didn't share these ideas with his colleagues before they were pitched" -- a problem, several people here pointed out, that Mr. DiFrancesco often pointed to as a flaw of the Whitman administration.
He did so again on June 6 by announcing the Newark arena proposal without first gaining the support of people like Paul DiGaetano, the assemblyman from Bergen County, home of the Meadowlands, who is next in line to become speaker,again, if the Republican majority is around in the fall.
Another thing that has been vexing some of Mr. DiFrancesco's colleagues is his longstanding practice of reviewing the board list -- the agenda for each Senate session -- and deleting items at his discretion. Mr. Bennett has complained since Mr. DiFrancesco became acting governor that final approval of the board list should fall to him, officials say.
"A lot of senators view it this way," said one legislative aide. "They have been nothing but completely loyal to Don DiFrancesco for 10 years, they made him the longest serving Senate president in history, and now when they are running and he's not, they have problems getting a bill that might appropriate $50,000 onto a board list.
"Furthermore, they see his legacy being shaped on issues that pertain to traditionally Democratic areas," the aide continued.
But Tom Wilson, Mr. DiFrancesco's spokesman, called such complaints unfair.
"His focus has broadened, but that's not to the detriment of anyone else," he said. "This is a person who has served as their Senate president since 1992 and has always given them the full weight and benefit of his time and interest in their success, and he still does that. The difference is that he also wears the hat of governor now."
When he took office amid much talk of cooperation with fellow lawmakers, one might have imagined Mr. DiFrancesco's future portrait would have pictured senators standing behind him. But it seems that like Mrs. Whitman, he is finding the governor's office a lonely place.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David M. Halbfinger 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); ABORTION (85%); BAILOUTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAKEOVERS (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (65%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: DIFRANCESCO, DONALD T (ACTING GOV); WHITMAN, CHRISTIE (ADMR); HALBFINGER, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



422 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Wendy Chen, Alvin Wong

 BODY:
Wendy Chen, a daughter of Nancy Yu-ping Lin of Fresh Meadows, Queens, was married yesterday to Alvin Wong, the son of Maria and David Wong of Astoria, Queens. The Rev. 
Bill H. C. Lee, a Presbyterian minister, officiated at the Swan Club in Roslyn Harbor, N.Y.
 The bride and bridegroom, who graduated from Cornell, met as freshmen at Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan. 
 Ms. Chen, 25, is keeping her name. She is a candidate for an M.B.A. degree from New York University. Her mother is a senior population officer in the Department of Economic and Social Affairs at the United Nations in Manhattan. 
Mr. Wong, 26, is a computer consultant in Manhattan for Quidnunc Ltd., a technology consulting business. He received a Master of Science in engineering management from Stanford. His mother is a pension plan specialist in Brooklyn for the Internal Revenue Service. His father retired as a manager for the Golden World Enterprise Corporation, a manufacturer of women's clothing that was in Manhattan.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Bill Fredericks Studio) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CONSULTING SERVICES (86%); ENGINEERING (85%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); WOMEN'S APPAREL MFG (50%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: CHEN, WENDY; WONG, ALVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



423 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Hotel Stocks Confront A Travel Slump

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
TRADITIONALLY, the leisure traveler is the first to postpone or curtail plans when the economy sags. But this year, the business traveler, a much bigger spender, has inflicted the most damage on the nation's hoteliers.
 Revenue per available room slid 2.6 percent in April from the previous month, and the decline was probably even bigger in May. That is in sharp contrast to the 2000 boom, in which that revenue measure soared as much as 8.2 percent in June. 
 Cruise lines are suffering as well. The problems have sent Wall Street analysts scrambling to further pare their estimates of travel industry profits.
One of them was Jason N. Ader, a senior managing director and travel and leisure analyst at Bear Stearns, who discussed the industry's woes on Thursday. Following are excerpts from the conversation.

Q. The hotel business looks as if it has fallen off a cliff. What happened?

A. It is the worst in 10 years. Business consumption has been weak in all areas of the economy, and the lodging industry is feeling the impact with its usual 6- to 12-month lag to national economic trends. It was strong until February, that's when we started to see evidence of the downturn. And it's gotten progressively worse, particularly in gateway cities like New York, San Francisco and Boston, which were the strongest areas just last year.

Q. You cut earnings estimates for the industry again last week. Is there any end in sight?

A. It looks like it's going to be a tough summer for business travel, though leisure remains relatively stable. The question is: When will we see evidence of the economy recovering because of declining interest rates and a tax cut? We don't think that will occur in the lodging industry until sometime in 2002. Investors need to brace themselves for results likely to be quite negative throughout the summer. The key figures to watch as leading indicators of a possible recovery are airline traffic and retail sales.

Q. Yet the stocks haven't been pummeled despite such a grim climate. Why not?

A. The stocks have held up despite the deteriorating trends because the supply growth remains very much under control. That's the silver lining. Since the hotel industry is not overbuilt -- the room-supply growth coming out of a slowdown is the lowest in 50 years -- the recovery will likely happen quickly. That has kept investor interest in the industry relatively high.
In the worst-case recession scenario, the earnings risk to lodging companies is not nearly as bad as what we see with the biggest technology companies, which have seen 50 percent-plus declines. That's just not going to happen in lodging.

Q. Are the priciest quarters suffering the most?

A. Yes. People are taking few trips, but also those that have to take trips are being much more frugal. Those customers enjoying Ritz-Carlton or Four Seasons have traded down to Hilton, Marriott, Sheraton and Westin.

Q. So there are some beneficiaries in this pretty severe downturn?

A. I wouldn't say that. There's just certain price categories that are feeling the impact a bit less.

Q. What sort of bargains will consumers be seeing?

A. I think this summer will be a great time for consumers. Las Vegas, cruises and hotels in major cities will be offered at prices better than we've seen in the last few years.

Q. Are there any hotel stocks you are recommending now?

A. Our advice to investors over the next two or three quarters is to be cautious. We have no buy recommendations. Longer term, we're optimistic about prospects for Starwood, which stands to benefit as business travel recovers. If you own Marriott, which mostly franchises and manages rather than owns hotels, you are in a more defensive position.

Q. You mentioned cruises as bargains. Does this reflect the slumping economy, too, or is it mainly a matter of too much capacity coming on line for baby-boom retirement?

A. The problem the cruise industry is really facing, exacerbated by slowing economic conditions, is that there's far too much capacity. And it's going to get worse, not better. Five years from now we're going to have 55 percent more ship berths than currently, putting great pressure on prices and margins and also eroding return on capital. That makes that business less attractive coming out of a slowdown than lodging.
Investors can make a lot more money holding a stock like Starwood than a stock like Carnival, which is clearly the best name in the cruise business on the strength of their market position and balance sheet. But Starwood isn't faced with massive growth in supply.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jason N. Ader 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); LODGING (89%); TRENDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); REVENUE PER AVAILABLE ROOM (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BONDS (75%); CRUISES (73%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); INTEREST RATES (63%); RETAIL SALES (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; ADER, JASON N 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



424 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2603 words

HEADLINE: Talking Union 

BYLINE:  By ADAM FIFIELD 

 BODY:
HANDS clasped behind his back, a copy of El Diario tucked under his arm, Manuel Escobar stood on a crumbling, weed-tufted sidewalk in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn, in April, staring across the street at a sprawling green building. Through the dark, yawning entrance, payloaders and backhoes could be dimly seen, lurching and digging amid 15-foot-high dunes of garbage as though searching for prey. Every so often, a seagull fluttered out of a swirl of paper scraps, shrieking.
 This is Varick I, a waste transfer station and recycling center on Varick Avenue operated by Waste Management, the nation's largest trash company. Inside are 100 workers who haul, sort and bale tons of the city's garbage every day. 
 Squinting in the sun, a few beads of sweat standing on his tanned brow, Mr. Escobar, 36, glanced furtively toward a security booth. The guard, who watched him carefully, had called the police on previous occasions when Mr. Escobar, a labor organizer, had crossed the street onto company property. 
Just after 2 p.m., the end of the day's first shift, a few rumpled figures emerged from the building into the blinding sun. 
"Buenos dias!" shouted Mr. Escobar, shooting a hand into the air. Heads down, the men ignored him and plodded determinedly away. Others soon followed, though Mr. Escobar waved to all. 
Finally, one acknowledged him with a nod, and as if tugged by a magnet, the organizer strode swiftly across the street. Grinning, he gripped the man's hand and pumped vigorously. The man, in his mid-20's and paunchy, smiled, looking around nervously. They walked together down the street, Mr. Escobar's hand planted on the man's shoulder, talking and nodding. At the corner, Mr. Escobar fished a 3-by-5-inch union pledge card out of his pocket. The man took it reluctantly, like a child who accepts something he knows he shouldn't from a stranger. 
Mr. Escobar is the senior field representative for the Waste Material, Recycling and General Industrial Laborers Local 108, Laborers' International Union of North America, A.F.L.-C.I.O., which represents 1,600 workers at 66 garbage transfer and recycling centers in and around the city. More plainly, he is the lead foot soldier for one of the city's most dynamic unions.
Labor unions in the United States have long been in decline, dropping from 35 percent membership of the work force in the 50's to 13.5 percent, or 16.3 million workers, last year. To be a labor organizer "is a lot more difficult now," said Joshua Freeman, a history professor and labor expert at Queens College.
But labor organizers, persistent by profession, push on, choosing to look at the bright spots. For some unionists at least, one such development is "living wage" legislation, which seeks to raise the income of some low-wage workers, including those whom Mr. Escobar woos. The City Council may vote on such a bill this summer. More good news is the record of scrappy Local 108, which has won all but one of the 16 elections in which it has participated since it was formed in 1998 by combining three other union locals.
With a neat mustache, a crop of graying curls and a contagious laugh, Mr. Escobar, a 5-foot-4-inch native of Honduras, sets his sights on workers who are among the city's lowest paid. Many earn just the federal minimum of $5.15 an hour, others perhaps $1 or $2 more. Along with the four other organizers for Local 108, he handles duties like seeking out new members, monitoring plant conditions and negotiating issues like suspensions and back pay.
Mr. Escobar does it with style. He is known among his colleagues as El Suave for his ability to melt hostile situations with warmth and charm. One afternoon, when an organizer from a rival union spit coffee all over him, he paused, licked his shirt, then replied: "Hey, you didn't put enough sugar in it!" 
Working out of the black 2000 Mercury Mountaineer that the union provides, Mr. Escobar wears many hats: counselor, negotiator, social worker. As the rules for and patterns of welfare and immigration change, the job of labor organizing has evolved. He schedules doctors' appointments for members, runs immigrant orientation forums and even deals with the police if members are robbed. 
Mr. Escobar, who was once a garbage truck driver for a waste transfer station in Brooklyn, says he is moved by a sense of social justice and a desire to see workers prosper. He knows that his salary, about $55,000 a year, puts a gulf between himself and his members.
"I don't want to be the only one who has three weeks' vacation so I can go back and visit my country," he said. "I don't want to be the only one who can buy my son nice things." 
He is strident on occasion. "What I don't like is going to the Labor Board to defend the workers against the biggest liars in the world," he said. He confessed that he once bent procedural rules in his quest to organize workers.
Others have qualms about unionizing in the garbage industry. Steven Changaris, northeast regional director of the National Solid Waste Management Association, a trade group, said union-negotiated provisions on, for example, overtime pay, can limit a company's flexibility. 
"One of the things that may be laid down from the management perspective is, 'Don't tie my hands with the union protocol,' " he said. There are governmentally imposed price caps on what his member companies can charge, he pointed out. If those limits are not raised but union contracts push wages up, waste companies may be caught in a squeeze. 
There is also the tarnished past of the Mason Tenders District Council, the parent union of Local 108 and five other locals. The council, which is the laborers' union in the city, has reincarnated itself under the eyes of federal monitors and the leadership of a new business manager, Anthony Silveri. But things were different in the early 90's.
"This particular district council was extremely corrupt," said Jeffrey Schaffler, a former senior racketeering investigator for the United States Department of Labor. "But it has made extraordinary strides. It's been cleaned up for all practical purposes." 
In this reborn union, Mr. Escobar is a man with a mission. "The guy has a passion to do this work," said Mike Hellstrom, the Local 108 business manager and an outspoken labor leader. "He has it in his blood."
MR. ESCOBAR'S work focuses largely on people at the lowest level of the waste industry, those who stand at waist-high conveyor belts and sift through moving trash. These are the pickers and sorters, who segregate the recyclables from the nonrecyclables, which could be anything from soiled diapers to old food to used hypodermic needles.
Some get skin rashes from handling the garbage or slice their fingers open on jagged pieces of metal in the debris. On the odd occasion, something ghastly comes down the conveyor belt, like the severed human head that showed up two years ago at Varick I.
At most companies with which Local 108 does not have contracts, salaries for pickers and sorters range from $5.15 an hour, the national minimum wage, to around $6.50. Most of these laborers are immigrants from Latin America, many are illegal immigrants, and many work as much overtime as they can to send money to relatives back home. In neighborhoods like Bushwick, Brooklyn, and Mott Haven, the Bronx, their families live doubled or tripled up with other families in tiny apartments partitioned with plywood.
One April afternoon, Mr. Escobar paid a visit to a picker and sorter, a neat, soft-spoken man of 22 who lives with five other people in a cramped two-bedroom apartment in Woodside, Queens. The man had signed a Local 108 pledge card several weeks ago, and Mr. Escobar wanted to see whether he was still willing to join. 
Giving his name only as Ralph -- he is an illegal immigrant -- he said he made $5.40 an hour, working from 10 p.m. to 10 a.m. six days a week at a Brooklyn transfer station. He said he started working four months ago, and sends money to his parents in Ecuador every week. 
All he can afford is rent and food, Ralph said. "We don't even have a chance to go to school and learn some English," he said. During his four months in America, he had never eaten in a restaurant. 
Mr. Escobar said that illegal immigrants, who are about 60 percent of his workers, often say that they are forced to work weekend shifts and are threatened with firings if they talk to union representatives. But if these illegal immigrants are most in need of unions, organizing them is still hard.
"Many of them aren't sure of their rights, and they're easily intimidated," said Anne Pillsbury, executive director of the Central American Legal Assistance Project in Williamsburg. "Most of these people come from countries where there is no rule of law. Some of them come from countries where union organizers are killed."
Still, Local 108 has had 15 victories in 16 union campaigns, many at plants with unions that, Local 108 contended, were weak. At its shops, Local 108 has negotiated pay raises as high as 50 percent for pickers and sorters, its officials say. These workers now average $8.25 to $9 an hour. Employer contributions for medical insurance rose at some shops from $108 per month per worker to $385. Workers also got more sick days, more vacation days and bigger pensions, and safety issues were addressed.
Most satisfying, say Mr. Escobar and his fellow organizers, is what members can do with the extra dollars in their pockets: buy a car so they don't have to walk or bicycle to work, or move out of their cramped, shared apartments. 
"I became more comfortable after my salary increase," said Luis, an illegal immigrant who works at a Brooklyn transfer station and whose pay rose $4 an hour after he joined Local 108. "I could buy better things for my son."
But Jeff Berkowitz, general manager of the Hunts Point Recycling Corporation in the Bronx, sees increased wages as potentially fatal to smaller companies like his.
"We don't have the financial wherewithal to increase wages where the unions want it," said Mr. Berkowitz, whose plant is now in contract talks with Local 108. If he must pay pickers and sorters $8 or $9 an hour, as Local 108 wants, he said, "we'll go out of business." 
MR. ESCOBAR knows how arduous the minimum-wage life can be, especially when part of the slim paycheck is sent off to relatives abroad. He arrived in New York in 1985, and his first job, at a plastics factory, paid $3.88 an hour. Still, he sent money home, usually around $200 a month, he said. His grandparents, who live in a small village, have bought nice clothes and a washing machine, and his grandfather was able to afford a prostate operation.
But Mr. Escobar also knows he is luckier than many of the people he is trying to organize. His mother, a housekeeper in New York for many years, was a legal American resident when she sponsored him for entry in 1985. Then 20, he joined her in her small apartment in Flushing, Queens. Because of her sponsorship, he was able to get an alien registration card, something many immigrant workers do not have. 
In November 1999, 14 years and eight jobs later, Mr. Escobar became an American citizen. He still lives with his mother. She and Mr. Escobar's stepfather occupy a section of a split-level, cream-colored clapboard house that Mr. Escobar owns on a tidy, quiet street in Elmhurst, Queens. Living in the other part of the house are Mr. Escobar, his wife, Blanca, and their 2-year-old son, Emmanuel. He felt he had attained the American dream when he bought the house. 
"I used to watch all these people barbecuing in their backyards, enjoying the sunshine," he said. "And I said, 'Someday, I will have that.' "
Mr. Escobar's backyard is a bumpy swath of asphalt. There is no grass. But there are a few plastic chairs, and there is plenty of space for a barbecue grill. 
Mr. Escobar's union career, which gave him the key to his middle-class life, began with a display of organizing prowess.
In summer 1998, he was driving a garbage truck for a small waste transfer station in Brooklyn that, he said, did not pay overtime or provide health benefits. The company was unionized, but in his six months working there, he said, he had never met a union representative.
When an organizer from Local 958, a predecessor to Local 108, showed up handing out pledge cards one morning, Mr. Escobar signed immediately and started recruiting fellow workers. During breaks, he spoke about what the local could do for workers, as they stood eating amid the mounds of garbage. There was no lunchroom.
In one afternoon, he collected 25 signed pledge cards. He admits that he violated the policy of not soliciting for unions during working hours. "I knew it was illegal to do that during company time," he said, "but I was so mad at the other union."
As it turned out, the election was invalidated for reasons unrelated to Local 958. But Mr. Hellstrom, who was then the local's business manager, was so impressed by Mr. Escobar's verve for organizing that he hired him.
Later that year, the rookie organizer was put to the test in a campaign at a transfer station in New Jersey. Standing outside the site one afternoon, Mr. Escobar noticed a group of 15 or so workers carpooling in a large Ford van. He followed the van to Jersey City, noting each spot at which workers got out.
The next morning, he drove to one of the spots and joined a handful of workers waiting for their ride. When the van came, he got on board, immediately told everybody who he was and made his pitch. 
He expected the van to stop outside the plant gates, where he would be able to hop out without difficulty. Instead, Mr. Escobar said, the van hurtled past the gates onto company property. As the workers filed out, the gates closed. 
Then, he said, he ran around the back and began to scale a 20-foot-high chain link fence. Halfway up, he noticed a security camera mounted on the fence, only a few feet away. He scrambled to the top and gingerly eased himself over. 
But it was worth it. Local 108 won the election. "Those brothers had nothing," Mr. Escobar said. "Now, they have everything."
The poverty of many of Mr. Escobar's constituents is hard to deny. In April, when he visited Mr. Berkowitz's plant in the Bronx, he was thronged by workers asking about progress in the contract talks.
One picker and sorter, witha bristly gray beard, a yellow hard hat and old jeans that had a greasy glaze, said he made $5.15 an hour and sent $100 to $150 to his family in Honduras every few weeks. He said he also has a wife and three children to support in the Bronx.
"I can't survive on this salary," he said. "I can't buy nothing for myself. Sometimes I must pick up things in the garbage to survive." He pointed to his feet, which were clad in one ragged Nike sneaker and one oil-stained work boot. They were different sizes, and the boot slipped a little with each step. He had found the mismatched pair while doing his job, he explained, rooting through debris on the conveyor belt. 
A few weeks later, Local 108 negotiated an across-the-board 50-cent raise for all workers at the Hunts Point plant. 
It was just temporary relief, until a complete contract was signed. But the spring brought more good news. Largely thanks to Mr. Escobar, Local 108 had gathered enough pledge cards at three Waste Management plants in Brooklyn to take part in a union election. 
Mr. Escobar was happy about this second small victory as he drove through Brooklyn one morning, passing through a beige-and-red canyon of factories. Spotting the one where he used to work, he said, "No matter what God puts in my hands, I must remember where I came from."

GRAPHIC:  In recent years, 60 cities and counties, including Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit and San Francisco, have enacted "living wage" laws. These measures raise the minimum wage for people, like Manuel Escobar's constituents in the waste industry, who work for companies or nonprofit groups that get contracts or tax breaks from those governments. Most of these laws raise the minimum wage to $8 to $12 an hour, substantially more than the federal minimum of $5.15. Now may be New York City's turn. This summer, the City Council may consider a bill that would raise the minimum to $10 an hour with benefits and $11.50 without benefits. If it does not pass or if the mayor vetoes it, the bill's backers plan to make it a campaign issue in the fall. Supporters say the high cost of living in this city makes the bill especially important. A study released last September by the Statewide Emergency Network for Social and Economic Security, an Albany coalition of labor and social service groups, found that a single adult living in Brooklyn in 2000 had to earn at least $8.65 an hour to meet basic needs. A Brooklyn parent with one child needed at least $16.79 an hour. Unlike some public-sector union leaders that oppose the bill for its $60 million subsidy to affected companies, Mr. Escobar and Mike Hellstrom, the Local 108 business manager, support it. Still, Mr. Hellstrom said, nothing can replace "good old-fashioned organizing." (pg. 8) Photos: Manuel Escobar chatting with recycling workers in Hunts Point, the Bronx. "I don't want to be the only one who can buy my son nice things," he said. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1); AUDIENCES BIG AND SMALL -- Manuel Escobar speaking with a driver in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, top, and, above, in a locker room at a plant in Dumbo, Brooklyn. A native of Honduras, he is known as El Suave for his diplomatic skills. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 8) Chart: "LIVING WAGE: COUNCIL MAY WEIGH RISE IN MINIMUM PAY" In recent years, 60 cities and counties, including Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit and San Francisco, have enacted "living wage" laws. These measures raise the minimum wage for people, like Manuel Escobar's constituents in the waste industry, who work for companies or nonprofit groups that get contracts or tax breaks from those governments. Most of these laws raise the minimum wage to $8 to $12 an hour, substantially more than the federal minimum of $5.15. Now may be New York City's turn. This summer, the City Council may consider a bill that would raise the minimum to $10 an hour with benefits and $11.50 without benefits. If it does not pass or if the mayor vetoes it, the bill's backers plan to make it a campaign issue in the fall. Supporters say the high cost of living in this city makes the bill especially important. A study released last September by the Statewide Emergency Network for Social and Economic Security, an Albany coalition of labor and social service groups, found that a single adult living in Brooklyn in 2000 had to earn at least $8.65 an hour to meet basic needs. A Brooklyn parent with one child needed at least $16.79 an hour. Unlike some public-sector union leaders that oppose the bill for its $60 million subsidy to affected companies, Mr. Escobar and Mike Hellstrom, the Local 108 business manager, support it. Still, Mr. Hellstrom said, nothing can replace "good old-fashioned organizing." (pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (89%); GREEN BUILDING (77%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (75%); LIVING WAGE (74%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; ORGANIZED LABOR; LABOR; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; WAGES AND SALARIES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION 

PERSON: ESCOBAR, MANUEL; FIFIELD, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



425 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: CITY LORE; 
Another Obituary on Ladies' Mile

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ 

 BODY:
MARY G. CLOSE was a woman of substance. A woman who more often than not wore a thick string of pearls. A woman who set two forks for dinner on weekdays, and took a single-malt scotch at sundown until her 94th year.
 A teacher from Brooklyn who lived in an apartment on West 71st Street for nearly 40 years, Ms. Close, who was this reporter's great-aunt, was the image of early-20th-century American elegance. Ms. Close had a kind of frugal grace that was fed in no small part by the offerings of B. Altman, Lord & Taylor and Stern's back in the days when those stores still offered cachet, brown paper packages and in-store pianists. 
 But the last Stern's will soon close its doors. Federated Department Stores, which acquired Stern's in 1988 and also owns the Macy's and Bloomingdale's chains, announced in February that it would convert or close all 24 Stern's locations in New York and New Jersey.
According to Jean Coggan, a spokeswoman for Federated, the conversion of 17 Stern's stores into Macy's was completed last month. Two Stern's outlets will reopen as Bloomingdale's in 2002, and the going-out-of-business sales at the remaining locations, which are to be closed, will wind down in August.
For more than a century, Stern's has played a unique role among New York department stores. It evolved from a magnet for class-conscious German immigrants early in the century to a destination for the aspiring middle class after World War II. Its demise tracked that of the elegant retail world that Ms. Close knew so well.
Stern's sat in a top tier of the city's department stores. Like B. Altman's, it never quite rivaled Lord & Taylor or Bonwit Teller, but it clearly had more clout than Wanamaker's.
Four sons of an impoverished German Jewish immigrant founded Stern's in 1867. Buoyed by their initial success, the Stern brothers led the retail migration to Ladies' Mile in 1878 with the opening of a seven-story building on 23rd Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues. It was the largest department store in New York until 1910.
"When the customer entered the store, he was welcomed personally by one of the Stern brothers, all of whom wore gray-striped trousers and cutaway tailcoats," said Larry Stone, who began at Stern's in 1948 as a trainee and retired in 1993 as chief executive. "Pageboys escorted the customer to the department in which they wished to shop, and purchases were sent out in elegant horse-drawn carriages and delivered by liveried footmen."
In 1913, the store moved to 42nd Street and Fifth Avenue. "At that point they catered to lots and lots of show business people because of being so close to Broadway," Mr. Stone said. "The store on 42nd Street literally had a carriage entrance, and while Madame shopped either her chauffeur or the driver of her horse-drawn carriage waited for her."
According to James Shenton, professor emeritus of history at Columbia University, Stern's was a socially significant institution for the hundreds of thousands of German Jews who immigrated to New York in the late 19th century.
Stern's was sort of like an upper-class establishment which catered to the interests and needs of the most influential group of Jews in New York, the German Jews," he said. "They were becoming part of the establishment and began to distance themselves from the incoming Eastern European Jews."
"To be a customer at Stern's was a mark of identity," Professor Shenton said. 
Stern's attracted another kind of customer as well. Amid the Vienna fancy goods, bric-a-brac, cloaks and costumes, smoking jackets, porcelain dolls and Alexandre kid gloves were more modest items for customers whose desire outpaced their means. Stern's fed the aspirations of these less wealthy shoppers, too.
Louis Stern, one of the founding brothers, was aware of the social stratification reinforced by the dual marketing approaches of stores like his. In an article in a trade magazine in 1901, he said he was troubled by the "undemocratic and un-American" implications of the new "bargain basements" in department stores. 
But in 1951 Allied Stores acquired Stern's, and a new era began. In the competitive postwar retail landscape, Stern's began marketing itself to the masses.
"We became clearly the moderate-priced department store," Mr. Stone said. "These were customers who did not want to go to discount stores, and they didn't want to go to higher-priced department stores because they couldn't afford to."
Stern's thrived in this middle-market niche for decades. Besides the moderate prices, the store ran marketing campaigns that included in-store appearances by celebrities like Bob Hope and Richard Chamberlain. In the mid-60's, it had a fashion-forward Carnaby Street Shop.
But, ultimately, Stern's lost out to big box stores and to the fact that, during the 80's recession, customers of all incomes became bargain hunters. "The fineness identified with department stores became obsolete," said Wendy Liebmann, president of WSL Strategic Retail, a consulting firm. "Shopping at Kmart for your clothes somewhere along the line became acceptable."
Now, Stern's is almost gone, a situation that was unimaginable in the world of Mary G. Close. "When you walked into Stern's," Professor Shenton said, "my recollection of it was you had this wildly implausible feeling that everything was there forever."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stern's in 1878, when it was on West 23rd Street and was a magnet for immigrants. (Museum of the City of New York) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); IMMIGRATION (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (54%); WORLD WAR II (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATED DEPARTMENT STORES INC; MACY, R H, & CO INC; BLOOMINGDALE'S; STERN'S 

TICKER: M (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (94%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%)

PERSON: KINETZ, ERIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



426 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Life With Father Isn't What It Used to Be; 
Nuclear Dad: Last of My Kind

BYLINE:  By JOE QUEENAN 

 BODY:
AS the new census returns came in recently, many Americans were shocked and disappointed to learn that nuclear families -- man, woman, assorted progeny living under a single roof -- now make up less than one-quarter of the households in the United States. Well, not me. Viewing marriage as a sort of emotional endurance test, and parenthood as a brutally demanding, financially ruinous, yet emotionally fulfilling decathlon, I am proud of the fact that my wife, my 17-year-old daughter, my 14-year-old son and myself have been able to stay the course and remain "nuclear" in the truest sense of the word. Even though I strongly suspect that they all secretly hate me.
 In truth, the motives for my euphoria are not of the highest pedigree. Basically, I was overjoyed at the trends confirmed by the 2000 census figures, because this is the first time in my life that I can honestly lay claim to membership in an imperiled minority. Ethnically generic, economically standard-issue, culturally nondescript, I had spent most of my obvious, suburban adult life as a member of a class that was almost laughably stereotypical. Now, for the first time, I find myself on the very threshold of the exotic. 
 Demographically marooned by my fellow Americans, I, like the whooping crane, find myself claiming membership in a class that is not only endangered, but in some sense also irrelevant. It is like being the last of the Mohicans, or the next-to-last of the Picts or the penultimate Jute. No two ways about it: It is exhilarating.
In no way, shape or form am I suggesting that membership in a nuclear family demonstrates moral superiority to those who, through choice or circumstances, have opted for other familial configurations. Far from it. In many cases, nuclear families have retained their monadic status simply because their children refuse to leave or because the children are not strong enough to force one or more parents to clear out. When conservative social critics champion governmental policies that will strengthen the family unit, they too often forget that many, perhaps most, such households are best described as inadvertently nuclear, situationally nuclear or even dysfunctionally nuclear.
For example, in households where one or more of the parents actively despise their children, or where the children loathe one or both parents, or where everybody dislikes a grandparent who stubbornly refuses to check into an assisted-care facility, one witnesses a dynamic best described as the King Lear syndrome. These are families that, though nuclear in composition, are fundamentally miserable. In households where mutual antipathy runs rampant, one comes face to face with a social unit best listed under the rubric the thermonuclear family.
Speaking from experience, it is fair to say that my family has not yet achieved thermonuclear status. Nor is it likely to do so in the future. Yet because my children are clearly anxious to get their hands on my money and have always been a bit tight with a buck, it is not hard to envision a time after their college years when they may come back to live under my roof in an arrangement best described as the postnuclear family. 
This is not something I am looking forward to, having always frowned on couples who continually take their grown children back in as lodgers, thus practicing serial empty nesting. It is my firm belief that once a nuclear family has ceased to be nuclear, no good can come from regressive nuclearity. Put in layman's terms, once there are no Bradys, there can no longer be a bunch.
One phenomenon that has not been sufficiently examined is phantom nuclear families. These are households where the husband and wife maintain a desperate illusion of nuclearity out of fear of social repercussions. 
As nuclear families dwindle in number -- down to 23.5 percent of all households in 2000, from 25.6 percent in 1990 -- their status as a mysterious and even exotic demographic group will grow, not unlike Arctic-based Huguenots. I for one would be willing to pay my children large cash emoluments long into their young adult years in exchange for their silence regarding the true social organization of our family. I am also willing to have my mother move into my house if it will help engender an illusion, however nebulous, that ours is truly a nuclear family. No two ways about it: I am a dyed-in-the-wool-nuclear-family kind of guy.
All this said, it is only fair to confess that the nuclear family is not something that I ever aspired to as a young man, nor is it even something that I am especially good at. Like macrame or retail haberdashery, it is something that I merely drifted into. I do not claim to be a better nuclear parent than the next guy, nor do I believe that one must be a nuclear parent in order to succeed as a nurturer. I can only say that for the first time in my life I can look at myself in the mirror and see the gleaming reflection of a dying breed. It's great to feel special.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Photo: Robert Young, the ultimate nuclear dad in "Father Knows Best." (Everett Collection)(pg. 1); LONG AGO AND FAR AWAY -- "The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet," with the real-life Nelson family, depicted the 1950's and 60's nuclear family. (Peter Jones Productions)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); CENSUS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); BIRDS (65%); CONSERVATISM (63%) FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MEN 

PERSON: QUEENAN, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



427 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
Forget About Efficient Markets. Let the Sun Shine In.

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Annandale, Va. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IF you still believe in efficient markets, consider this: City by city, according to a new study, stock markets rise more often on days when the sun shines in the morning than when skies are overcast. And, the study concludes, the New York Stock Exchange is among the most weather-influenced markets in the world.
 These findings are devastating for people who advocate the efficient-market hypothesis, at least in its strongest form. The hypothesis holds that the market so efficiently assimilates all new information as it sets stock prices that no one can outperform it consistently. But if something as obviously irrelevant as the weather can change market performance, such efficiency cannot exist. 
 The study, "Good Day Sunshine: Stock Returns and the Weather," by two finance professors, David Hirshleifer of Ohio State University and Tyler Shumway of the University of Michigan, is available at
www.cob.ohio-state.edu/fin/dice/papers/ 2001/2001-3.pdf.
For example, on a day when Paris is sunny and Brussels is cloudy, French investors tend to interpret that day's news more optimistically than Belgian investors -- even though the two exchanges trade many of the same companies and are affected by the same economic developments.
The professors arrived at their conclusions by studying 26 stock exchanges worldwide between 1982 and 1997. They found that sunshine's positive effect is not confined to one country, or to a few emerging markets. In fact, they found it in virtually every market they studied. Furthermore, American investors will be humbled to learn that, notwithstanding their self-image as technologically sophisticated, the Big Board is among a cluster of stock exchanges that are most influenced by the weather. Others in that group are markets in Brussels, Paris, Vienna and Helsinki, Finland.
All of this may be fascinating, but how can the study make you a better investor? Its greatest lesson is not how to day-trade the world's stock markets according to the weather -- though if you were so inclined, the key would be to have low transaction costs, like those that apply to stock index futures. In that event, according to the professors' calculations, you might make money by going long in markets whose cities start the day in sunshine and going short in markets whose cities are under clouds.
More important, the study shows that our moods can have powerful effects on our interpretation of economic developments. When the sun is shining, the study concludes, people tend to put a more optimistic spin on the day's news developments. The process is subtle; indeed, most of us are unaware of how our moods contaminate our objectivity. But if the weather can change our opinion about a stock, imagine the impact of our other daily mood swings.
The main point, of course, is that objectivity is rare among investors. We may think that we are being objective as we assess an earnings report, for example, but we most likely are not.
To have any chance of beating the market, we need to be ruthlessly objective. Although we have conclusive evidence that the market is not completely efficient, it would be a mistake to conclude that it is totally inefficient, and thus easy to beat. To the contrary, despite frequent anomalies, financial markets remain predominantly efficient and difficult, though not impossible, to beat.
To immunize yourself from your moods, use a mechanical investment strategy that dictates how to react in all possible circumstances -- eliminating the need to make judgments in the face of new developments. And try to be disciplined enough to stick with the strategy, even in the face of inevitable emotional pulls to second-guess it.
If you follow this advice, I predict that your long-term performance will be more than enough to cheer you on even the cloudiest of days.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Solar Power"According to a new study, the average share on the New York Stock Exchange goes up more on sunny days than on cloudy ones. ANNUALIZED PERFORMANCE 1982-97 Sunny days: +25%Cloudy days: +9% (Source: David Hirschleifer, Ohio State University and Tyler Shumway, University of Michigan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); FUTURES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); BONDS (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WEATHER 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%) NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE 

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%) OHIO, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (92%); FINLAND (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



428 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS; 
In Small-Town America, A Big Media Market

BYLINE:  By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Davenport Institute for Public Policy at Pepperdine University. His column on the Main Street economy appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: grassrts@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BATAVIA, Ohio 

 BODY:
MOST media moguls have built their empires on metropolitan dreams. Daniel Hammond is aiming to make it big by reaching the nearly 40 million Americans -- like those in this town of 3,000 east of Cincinnati -- who are served by small-town newspapers.
 With a downtown sprinkled with late 19th- and early 20th-century buildings and mom-and-pop shops, Batavia is typical of the small-town targets of Mr. Hammond's start-up weekly magazine, American Profile. The magazine, 14 months old, already appears in 630 small-town newspapers, with a combined circulation of three million; it is a folksy insert similar in appearance to USA Weekend or Parade but distinctive in the small-town thrust of its content. 
 "It's an untapped market," said Mr. Hammond, 41, who was a marketing executive for the First Data Corporation in Atlanta before starting the Publishing Group of America, the privately held parent of American Profile, in Franklin, Tenn. "There's over $300 billion, a quarter of the disposable income in the country," available in small towns, he said. 
In the advertising business, small cities and towns are often called "C" or "D" markets. They are rated behind both the large "A" markets, which include the top 25 metropolitan areas like New York and Los Angeles, and the second-tier, "B" cities with populations of more than 80,000. 
Although the populations are small -- C markets are 20,000 to 80,000, D markets less than 20,000 -- their combined total is about 25 percent of the American population.
For years, demographers and advertisers widely assumed that C and D markets were losing population, yet recent census data reveals a strong pickup in many of them across the country. In fact, as more companies relocate to rural areas and as early retirees from the baby-boom generation move in, such markets are undergoing considerable change.
"These are not all a bunch of uneducated hayseeds anymore," said Mr. Hammond, contradicting the image held by some people living in big cities.
Most of these cities and towns have their own newspapers, often family owned and operated, and Mr. Hammond said he believes that these publications, unlike their metropolitan-area counterparts, are often read cover to cover. "It's the only place to find out who the homecoming queen is," said Mr. Hammond, a native of Noblesville, Ind., a town of 8,000 people northeast of Indianapolis.
Until American Profile came along, most small-town newspapers, like The Clermont Sun of Batavia, lacked a weekly supplement. With a circulation of only 3,100, the newspaper was considered too small for Parade and USA Today, which concentrate on papers with circulations of more than 100,000.
Even so, William C. Latham, 68, the paper's publisher, said he believes that those national publications do not fit the tastes and preferences of his readers anyway.
Michael Kurtz, 30, the editor of The Sun, agreed. "People here are tired of the glitz, the bad news and the crime," Mr. Kurtz said from the paper's offices on Main Street. "People here want to read about how a family man rebuilt a house. That's what they can get in American Profile."
These sentiments, and the notion of an underserved market, gave Mr. Hammond the idea for American Profile nearly a decade ago. The early research into the C and D markets was financed by a second mortgage that he took in 1991 on his house in the Nashville suburbs. By early 2000, he had raised a total of $3.5 million in capital from Megunticook Management, a venture capital firm based in Boston that specializes in the media business.
Heberden Ryan, a partner at Megunticook, said the magazine had already exceeded its own business plan by reaching a circulation of more than one million in its first year. That success opened the door to an additional $23 million investment in March from Quadrangle Group L.L.C., a New York firm that specializes in media properties.
American Profile, which has a staff of 57 in Tennessee, reaches more than three million people in its five regional editions. Mr. Hammond expects circulation to increase to 4.5 million readers next year.
Yet he sees that number as a fraction of the nearly 40 million people in his target audience. If he can capture a large portion of these readers, the Publishing Group of America could eventually become the publisher of one of the nation's largest-circulation magazines and expand into properties in cable television, specialty magazines and the Internet.
"They told Wal-Mart 40 years ago, you could not build a powerful company based in towns with less than 50,000 people," he said. 
Like Wal-Mart back then, American Profile has gained little initial notice in an industry that is concentrated in big cities. Dr. Samir Husni, a journalism professor at the University of Mississippi and an expert on magazines, traced that in part to the decidedly "light" nature of its content. 
Mr. Hammond acknowledged that the magazine consciously avoided "controversy," including articles on topics like crime, politics and even fundamentalist Christianity, a major force in rural America. Recent covers of the magazine have included headlines like "Home for Good: The Lure of Hometown America and Why It Beckons Us," and "Unsung Fathers: 5 Families Tell What Makes a Dad Special."
"Not every journalist would accept this," said Mr. Husni, who runs a magazine consulting firm. "This is a cheap shot to some people, but this works because it serves customers in good old small-town America." 
Mr. Husni has been so impressed with the magazine's marketing strategy that last year he rated American Profile, along with "O," Oprah Winfrey's magazine, as "launch of the year" among 874 new magazines.
ADVERTISERS also appear to be impressed. Advertising revenue, barely $3 million in 2000, is on track to pass $20 million this year, Mr. Hammond said. American Profile's advertising base now includes brand names like Kimberly-Clark, Colgate, Kraft and Coty fragrances. The magazine has also attracted ad dollars from major media names like NBC and Mercury Records.
Marla Goldstein, senior director for media planning, advertising and promotion at NBC, said she saw American Profile as a way to reach small-town viewers who usually do not receive weekly supplements like USA Weekend and Parade in their local newspapers. In general, small-town residents tend to watch more television, particularly network television, than their big-city counterparts, she said.
"This gives us a way to reach out to people we haven't really been able to reach in print before," she said from her office in Burbank, Calif. "We want people to learn about our shows in a format where there's no worry about an inappropriate article next to our ad."
Mr. Hammond said his success with advertisers and publishers was rooted in his ability to capture the sensibility of small-town newspaper readers. As a native of a small town himself, he said he believes that he has a natural feel for what they like. And most of his editorial and marketing employees, he said, also have small-town backgrounds.
"The critical thing is we can't fake it," Mr. Hammond said. "If we are perceived as people in New York or Los Angeles doing the hometown shtick we'd wither on the vine. But this is a natural for me."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel Hammond, canoeing with his son Bradshaw, 8, at left, is the founder of American Profile magazine, a newspaper insert aimed at rural areas. (Christopher Berkey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); FAMILY (72%); CENSUS (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (62%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (52%); EARLY RETIREMENT (50%) NEWSPAPERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: FIRST DATA CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PROFILE (MAGAZINE) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (69%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (69%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (69%)

PERSON: KOTKIN, JOEL; HAMMOND, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



429 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Robert A. Schwarzkopf And Sandi L. Gleason; 
Kayne Anderson Rudnick Small-Mid Cap Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
AMERICA'S biggest blue-chip companies were once small businesses -- the kind that Robert A. Schwarzkopf and Sandi L. Gleason want for their $69.2 million Kayne Anderson Rudnick Small-Mid Cap fund.
 "In an industry where most people classify themselves as growth or value investors, we decided to take another road," Mr. Schwarzkopf said from their offices in Century City in Los Angeles. "We don't buy the cheapest stocks or the fastest-growing businesses. We buy the highest-quality companies in America." 
 The companies' returns have been substantial. The fund rose 30.4 percent in the 12 months ended Thursday, compared with a 15.4 percent loss for the small-cap growth group and a 16.1 percent loss for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. For the three years ended Thursday, the fund gained 14.8 percent a year, on average, versus 10.4 percent for its group and 4.9 percent for the S.& P.
Mr. Schwarzkopf, 52, and Ms. Gleason, 36, also manage $2 billion for institutions and individuals for Kayne Anderson Rudnick Investment Management, the fund's adviser.
To find businesses with sustainable competitive advantages, the managers screen 8,000 United States companies for consistent earnings and revenue growth. They look for growth rates that have exceeded the industry average over 10 years.
The portfolio companies have a weighted average market capitalization of $2 billion, comparable to that of the benchmark Russell 2500 index.
The analysts look for rising free cash flow and low debt levels. "Companies that have lots of cash and little debt are less financially risky," Mr. Schwarzkopf said, "and they can take advantage of opportunities during difficult times, when other companies are struggling."
The managers trim the pool to 250 companies by eliminating those whose management does not seem focused on building shareholder value, and those that do not dominate their markets. Further research helps them choose the 25 to 35 stocks in the fund. "We want to find the best businesses, understand what makes them great so we can assess how long they will stay great companies, and determine how much we should pay for them," Mr. Schwarzkopf said.
The managers work with sector analysts and visit the companies. "We want to understand how a company differentiates itself from competition," Ms. Gleason said, "how it creates value for customers, and how it does that in a way that excludes competition."
To reduce risk, they aim for a diversified portfolio that roughly replicates the Russell 2500 index.
They call their strategy "quality at a reasonable price." The managers prefer companies with above-average return on equity and profit margins, but with below-average valuations based on price-to-sales and price-to-book ratios. Those correlations "give you a good sense of how your company is valued relative to its industry," Ms. Gleason said.
They also review ranges of price-to-earnings multiples over 5 or 10 years. "You get a P/E band range around which the stock trades," Ms. Gleason said. "You can apply the high and low multiple to target earnings for each of five years to get a target price."
They trim positions in stocks that reach their target price, and companies whose market capitalization grows too large or that cannot sustain their target growth rates.
IN March, the managers bought shares of the Black Box Corporation of Lawrence, Pa., at $43.42. Black Box, a global marketer of cable, networking and other communications equipment, has carved out a market niche by basing its selling primarily on service, not price, Mr. Schwarzkopf said. It offers technical service 365 days a year in 132 countries. In its last fiscal year, 99.2 percent of calls were answered within 20 seconds, according to the company.
The strategy has let Black Box generate double-digit net profit margins, he said, adding that it avoids economic cycles because it concentrates on the aftermarket, not infrastructure building. He expects 20 percent annual growth in earnings over the next three years.
On Friday, the stock closed at $62.94, compared with their 12-month target price of $75.
Another favorite is the Catalina Marketing Corporation of St. Petersburg, Fla., a leader in customized electronic coupons generated at checkout counters. The company's systems are used in about 15,000 supermarkets, she added, and it has annual and multiyear contracts with major consumer goods companies. It is also expanding into health care advertising linked to drug purchases. She expects earnings per share to grow 22 percent in each of the next three years.
The fund bought shares in March 2000 at a split-adjusted price of $30.14; they now trade at $31.68, compared with the managers' price target of $49.
The managers also like C. H. Robinson Worldwide, a transportation company based in Eden Prairie, Minn. The company dominates a domestic market, Mr. Schwarzkopf said, by using its data processing systems to match small local trucking companies with the needs of large packaged-goods companies.
"They serve as a marketing and information technology department for thousands of small truckers," he said.
Unlike most companies in the transportation industry, he added, it carries no debt on its balance sheet. And because it specializes in the food industry, he said, the company can continue growing during bad economic times. He projects annual earnings growth of 20 percent over the next three years.
The managers first bought shares in January 2000 at a split-adjusted price of $19.70. The stock closed at $28.26 on Friday; their price target is $34 within 12 months.

GRAPHIC: Photo: For their fund, Sandi L. Gleason and Robert A. Schwarzkopf buy small stocks that he calls "the highest-quality companies in America." (Kim Kulish/Saba, for The New York Times) Chart: "Kayne Anderson Rudnick Small-Mid Cap" Category: Small growthNet assets: $69 millionInception: October 1996Managers: Robert A. Schwarzkopf and Sandi L. GleasonMinimum purchase: $2,000 ($1,000 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 50%3-year annualized return through Thursday: 14.8%Category average: 10.4% SECTOR BREAKDOWN Financial services: 11%Other: 57%Banks: 10%Computers: 9%Medical information systems: 7%Drugs/hospital supplies: 6% FEES Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.29% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BONDS (77%); CASH FLOW (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: KAYNE ANDERSON RUDNICK INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LLC (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; SCHWARZKOPF, ROBERT A; GLEASON, SANDI L 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



430 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: VICARIOUS INVESTING; 
Funds That Focus On Truly Liquid Assets

BYLINE:  By CONRAD DE AENLLE 

 BODY:
NO matter how obscure an investment may be -- even one like wine, which most people do not even consider an investment -- someone will start a mutual fund devoted to it.
 The AWM Fine Wine Fund Ltd. bills itself as the world's first mutual wine fund that invests entirely in actual bottles of wine. It is run by Ascot Wine Management S.A. and managed in Geneva by Tor Vollalokken, who started it in late 1999 after running two closed-end funds that specialized in Burgundies. 
 Those funds are being wound down, he said. "The success of the two previous wine funds -- they were up on average 25 percent per annum -- and the attraction they had among wine collectors and investors" gave him the idea of opening the new fund, he said. "The structure of our business," he added, "is not very different from what you generally see in the fund management industry, especially for hedge funds." 
As an offshore fund, AWM Fine Wine is not allowed to market itself to American investors, but nothing restricts Americans from approaching Ascot to buy it.
With a minimum investment of 25,000 euros, about $21,500, the AWM fund is clearly out of bounds for investors of modest means. Such an exotic fund would merit only a tiny fraction of a prudent investor's portfolio, so anyone considering buying it would have to have a high net worth.
Because of restrictions on selling risky investments to the general public, Mr. Vollalokken said Ascot is arranging to sell the fund through a network of banks that cater to wealthy people. 
"So far, none of the banks are in the United States," he said.
Mr. Vollalokken said the fund, based in the Cayman Islands, had assets of 15 million euros ($12.9 million), divided among three share classes. Unlike the mundane Class A, B and C labels of typical funds, its three are Bordeaux Crus, Burgundy Crus and World Crus, referring to where the wines were produced. So far, their performances have not matched the two closed-end funds -- annualized gains have ranged from 10.9 percent to 13.0 percent -- but they have comfortably outpaced most stock markets.
A handful of other funds invest in wine or companies that produce it. The Orange Wine Fund, listed on the Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam, was started less than four months ago and intends to invest both in wine and in companies in the industry.
Two funds listed in Australia focus on companies involved in local wine production. The Wine Investment Fund Ltd. is tiny, capitalized at less than 3 million Australian dollars (about $1.6 million). Its share price has risen about 15 percent in the last year. The larger International Wine Investment Fund, based on its recent price, had a value of 122 million Australian dollars ($64.1 million) and much stronger performance than the smaller fund; it was up more than 40 percent over one year.
Mr. Vollalokken said there were two main types of investors in the Ascot fund: "wine collectors, who see the fund's purchasing power as an attractive way to stock their own wine cellars" -- shares may be redeemed in cash or in kind -- "and professional investors, who look upon the fund as an attractive vehicle for part of an alternative-investment portfolio."
Wine is certainly an alternative investment, and a relatively difficult one to own. Like gold, it pays no dividends or interest. But investors must pay to store it.
With so many differences among wines, special skills may be needed to buy the right ones. And, of course, a bottle of wine can break.
For those reasons, investors who want to take a chance on wine may find a fund the best way to do so. A wine fund has the advantages of other funds: diversification that minimizes the harm caused by any one bad decision; economies of scale that limit the cost of storage, transportation and insurance; and, perhaps most important, professional expertise in choosing holdings and buying and selling them efficiently and at good prices.
Mr. Vollalokken says new wines are bought directly from producers or negociants, the merchants who buy grapes to make wine for sale worldwide, and are then stored for three to five years.
"Wines from older vintages are bought from some of the world's greatest private collections," Mr. Vollalokken said. "Due to our substantial purchasing power, there are substantial savings made for the fund, margins which otherwise would have been paid to the wine trade. As all these wines are in great demand, we think this is a low-risk activity. Most of the appreciations in share values are from margins saved, rather than actual price increases over time."
Describing what must be an enjoyable part of his job, he said he and his colleagues tasted 3,000 new wines a year -- two or three times each, at various stages from harvest to bottling.
"Already during the first tasting we know a lot about how the vintage is going to be," Mr. Vollalokken said. "We have weather reports throughout the growing season, we taste the wines for acidity, tannins, sugar level, color, smells, etc., and compare the notes with our database for previous vintages at the same stage of development. By comparing the tastings to similar tasting notes from other vintages and the weather and growth reports, we get a good picture of how this wine will be. By repeating the tasting later on, we see whether our earlier predictions are still valid."
Investors may sell their shares for cash or exchange them for bottles of wine after a three-year lockup period. About 40 percent of wine sales are expected to be made to shareholders who choose to drink their profits. A further 25 percent are through online wine distributors, and the remaining 35 percent go to fancy restaurants, which sell the wine on consignment.
Asked for appraisals of wine funds, several financial investors declined comment because of the esoteric nature of such investments. But one said that wine would be a poor investment for him because "I have never held on to a bottle long enough to be able to sell it again."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tor Vollalokken, who heads Ascot Capital Management and manages its wine investment fund, visited a vineyard in Burgundy, top, and tasted its wine, above right. A few other funds also invest in wine. (Photographs by Anders Martinsen) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); WINE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); WINERIES (78%); BONDS (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (54%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; WINES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: AWM FINE WINE FUND LTD 

PERSON: DE AENLLE, CONRAD; VOLLALOKKEN, TOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (91%); SWITZERLAND (90%); FRANCE (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



431 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
For Busy Art Dealers, the Fair's the Thing

BYLINE:  By BROOK S. MASON 

 BODY:
WHEN 53,000 art collectors, curators and other art lovers descended on the Swiss city of Basel to take in the world's largest art fair, which began on Tuesday, 260 art dealers were there with their best offerings -- and an additional 640 wished they were. That is precisely how many art dealers were on the waiting list, said Samuel Keller, the manager of the fair, which is called Art Basel.
 That number provides an indication, too, of how much Basel and other top-tier fairs are driving the highly competitive art world. And here is another: By the time Art Basel ends tomorrow, collectors and museums are expected to have bought $250 million to $300 million worth of contemporary art, though the exact total is not known because gallery sales are private. 
 "The sales are fantastic," said David Zwirner, a dealer in New York who has gone to Basel twice before and who always writes up multimillion-dollar sales there. 
Even Marlborough Galleries, perhaps the most multinational of art galleries, with outposts in New York and Boca Raton, Fla., as well as London, Madrid, Liechtenstein, Monaco and Santiago, Chile, routinely participates in a rigorous schedule of fairs, including those in Basel, Paris and Cologne, Germany.
The reason is simple: art dealers can often be more productive, both making sales and wooing new clients, at art fairs -- which typically last from three days to about two weeks -- than they can be at their galleries.
"New clients are the main objective of fairs," said Gilbert Lloyd, a Marlborough director based in London. Last year at Basel, he met six new clients, some of whom bought art in the million-dollar range.
So great is the lure of art fairs, with their prospect of steep sales, that their numbers are growing even as the cost of participation is rising. Some dealers barely cover their expenses, which run into the hundreds of thousands of dollars -- for travel, accommodations, insurance, renting space, furnishing a booth and, of course, their sometimes lavish entertaining of dozens of clients. 
Sometimes, "simply museum-crating a single picture costs $5,000," said Penny Marks, a director of Richard Green Gallery in London. 
Yet dealers are going to more fairs. Michael Findlay, a director of the prestigious Acquavella Gallery in Manhattan, took a booth at Art Basel for the first time this year even though the bottom-line results of his last fair experience, at the huge European Fine Art Fair, in Maastricht, the Netherlands, came up short. Although $385 million worth of art traded hands at Maastricht this year, according to David Kusin, an economist in Dallas who tracks the art market by regularly polling important dealers, Mr. Findlay did not make a single sale from the $20 million display of paintings by the likes of Picasso and Degas that he put on display there.
But, he said, "it's a kind of institutional advertising," well worth the $100,000 that the gallery spent to secure and build a booth and send inventory to the fair. 
IT is the contacts made at fairs that are important in the art world, whose worldwide sales in 1998 exceeded $18 billion, according to a report released a year ago by the Maastricht fair organizers. 
"All it takes is a five-minute conversation with a complete stranger and an entire year later, that person will walk into the gallery and begin a collection," said Barbara Mathes, a New York dealer who goes to Basel every year. That has happened to her; once, a client began a serious collection of Calder mobiles, some priced in six figures. Robert Mnuchin, of C&M Arts, said he had had close to a half-dozen similar experiences, some leading to the formation of million-dollar collections.
In May, at the International Fine Art Fair, which its British organizers, Brian and Anna Haughton, stage each spring in Manhattan, Maurizio Canesso, a private dealer from Paris, sold three paintings worth $3.2 million to new clients. And Matthew Marks, who operates two galleries in Manhattan, said the payback from courting new clients at fairs could be enormous over time. He counts 18 European clients who spend a minimum of $50,000 annually -- some as much as $100,000. 
Dealers are also eager to meet the many museum curators trolling the fairs. Hundreds of them show up at Basel, and many routinely walk the floor with trustees and donors in tow. "So, when a curator sees a painting he wants, all he has to do is turn to a trustee for the appropriate donation," said Lawrence Luhring, a director of the Luhring Augustine Gallery in Chelsea.
Most dealers decline to reveal sales. But Richard Green, owner of three London galleries that sell Old Masters as well as 18th-, 19th- and 20th-century paintings, provides some indication of what is possible. Each year, Mr. Green participates in three American fairs, two in New York and one in Palm Beach, Fla., as well as the Maastricht fair and the Grosvenor House Fair in London. He also takes part in the Paris Biennale.
"Approximately $30 million of our annual $150 million in sales is from fairs," Ms. Marks said. Jack Kilgore, who sells 17th-century paintings from the third floor of an Upper East Side town house, said he made 25 percent of his yearly sales at two fairs, the International Fine Art Fair in New York in May and Maastricht in March.
Fair organizers, which are sometimes private companies and sometimes dealer associations, say buyers are drawn to these gilt-edged shopping malls for their efficiency: comparison shopping is easy. But fairs also create a sense of competition and therefore urgency on the part of clients. "Because they know at the end of the fair we are taking everything away and heading home, most don't hesitate when buying," Mr. Kilgore said.
Most top-drawer art fairs are specialty events, devoted to one type or period of art. Maastricht is predominantly Old Masters; Basel is contemporary; the International Asian Art Fair in New York offers works from all over Asia.
As fairs have grown in importance, the mix of visitors has changed, with more Europeans going to American fairs and more Americans to European ones, fair organizers said. The number of fairs, meanwhile, has shot up. Three years ago, David Lester started a modern and contemporary fair called Art Palm Beach; last November, he inaugurated the Texas International Art & Antiques Fair in Dallas. Sanford Smith, another fair manager, is adding an Art of the 20th Century fair in New York to his roster next November, and Art Basel will open an American version of its contemporary fair next December in Miami. And the Private Art Dealers Association is gearing up for its inaugural fair next October, at the National Academy of Art in New York.
NEVERTHELESS, there is a downside to the increasingly crowded fair circuit. Some dealers say participation takes away precious time from the galleries, hours that could be spent tracking down important art works, nurturing clients and researching paintings.
A few dealers even contend that a single fair a year is enough for courting new business. Per Skarstedt, a Madison Avenue dealer who shows only at Basel, argued that gallery time was essential for servicing clients. He has 40 clients who spend $200,000 annually. "When they fly in from Europe or Texas," he said, "they want to see me in the gallery, not hear that I'm off at some art fair and won't be back for two weeks."
The sluggish economy and the faltering stock market of recent months may be bigger worries, although most collectors are presumably wealthy enough to weather normal downturns. 
Some fairs, in fact, have failed recently. Three years ago, Mr. Lester closed his Beverly Hills art and antique fair because of scant sales and weak attendance; in May, he canceled a "Maastricht type" fair that had been scheduled to begin next October in Westchester County for a lack of dealers. 
Dealers are starting to wonder aloud if the fair market is supersaturated. "Some fairs will become regional, while others will fold," Mr. Luhring predicted. 
But, for now, as weak fairs fade, new ones are springing up to replace them. Mr. Lester is already looking for new sites -- this time with more capital. Last week, he sold his fairs for $19 million to DMG World Media, a British conglomerate that owns The Daily Mail of London, among other publications, as well as 260 shows and trade exhibitions. He is eyeing New York, London and Hong Kong as prospects.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dealers and collectors mingled at Art Basel, above, in Switzerland and the International Asian Art Fair in New York. Such fairs have become major marketing venues. (Haughton International Fairs) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ART DEALERS (94%); ART COLLECTING (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (88%); PAINTING (78%); TRADE SHOWS (61%) ART; ART BASEL (FESTIVAL); TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS 

PERSON: MASON, BROOK S 

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (55%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (55%) SWITZERLAND (94%); NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (87%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); SPAIN (79%); CHILE (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); GERMANY (55%); MONACO (55%) SWITZERLAND; BASEL (SWITZERLAND)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



432 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1928 words

HEADLINE: Not Your Father's Soviet-Era Factory 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: NIZHNY NOVGOROD, Russia 

 BODY:
THERE is a new sign hanging at the entrance of the Gorky Automobile Factory, one of Russia's biggest carmakers, located 260 miles east of Moscow: "The Buyers of Our Cars Pay Our Salaries."
 At this Soviet-era factory, quality had never been a priority. Nor was profit. The plant has been teetering on the brink of insolvency for years. Its trademark Volga sedan, the limousine of Soviet bureaucrats, has not changed much since the early 1970's, when it was designed. 
 Recently, however, Oleg Deripaska, a 33-year-old aluminum magnate, took control of the factory. He says he intends to sort out its tangled finances and make better cars. To start, he put up the sign -- a message to the workers to shape up. 
Mr. Deripaska is one of a handful of young businessmen flush with profits from selling oil and other raw materials who have begun a quiet transformation of industries in Russia's heartland. In the last year, they have snapped up companies in previously neglected areas of Russia's economy, including its aging manufacturing sector -- carmakers, bus makers, engine producers and a television factory.
If they are successful in reviving Russia's languishing industrial base, the change would free the country from its dependence on the fickle world commodity markets and perhaps spread the benefits of market reform to the country's depressed rust belt.
Still, their intentions are far from clear. Past practices of diverting company revenue and bare-knuckled takeovers still leave people here -- cynical after a decade of robber-baron capitalism -- wondering whether things will be different this time around.
Analysts say the very fact of these new purchases is a promising sign. Throughout the 1990's -- the wild and woolly first decade of privatization -- the standard practice was to hide profits in bank accounts offshore. But investing in Russia has become more attractive for owners here. A currency devaluation three years ago made local manufacturing profitable. A stabler political situation under President Vladimir V. Putin has also helped keep money home.
"Russian money is going into Russian assets -- that's new," said Roland Nash, chief economist at Renaissance Capital, an investment bank in Moscow. "It's different from the stealing and rape we saw during the 1990's."
As with all those who made their fortunes over the last decade in Russia, notably in aluminum, Mr. Deripaska is not without his share of controversy. His reputation in the West took a beating when three little-known metals-trading companies filed suit in a federal court last December in New York. The suit accuses Mr. Deripaska and some associates of, among other things, using extortion and murder to gain control of a Russian aluminum plant. The suit has drawn much attention internationally; as part of the fallout, Mr. Deripaska was denied a visa to the United States.
He and the other defendants deny the accusations. Last month, they filed motions to dismiss the suit, arguing that it should be transferred to the Russian courts. The real force behind it, they say, is a business rival, who is wanted in Russia on charges of conspiring to murder a leading politician.
Despite the overseas allegations, Mr. Deripaska's reputation is relatively clean in Russia, where garish accusations are routinely traded during business disputes. And his move to help rescue the car industry is a boon to that public image.
His company, Siberian Aluminum, paid $300 million for a controlling stake in the Gorky Automobile Factory, known by its Russian acronym, GAZ. He has also been buying other automotive companies and has grand plans for a giant industrywide holding company.
In a country where the average income is modest by Western standards and where there are only 14 cars for every 100 people -- less than one-third the share in the West -- cheap domestically made cars make a good investment, said Mr. Deripaska, sitting at a conference table in his sleek downtown Moscow office building.
But the auto industry is a mess. Even the government, which counts it among the country's economic priorities, says so. At a meeting with auto company owners early this month in the Kremlin, Mr. Putin derided them as producing "yesterday's cars."
GAZ, built in 1932 with the help of engineers from the Ford Motor Company, has made cars with no eye to market demand. Even after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the government continued to provide a steady diet of state subsidies and debt forgiveness in return for promises of eternal employment for the company's more than 100,000 workers.
"It was a preserved island of socialism here -- absolute stagnation," said Victor Panyushkin, one of Mr. Deripaska's new managers at the plant.
THEN there were the post-Soviet problems. Local car dealers took control of the company's cash flow, paying for more than half of their purchases in goods like headlights and metal. The factory's suppliers, often middlemen linked to management, vastly overcharged on everything from batteries to fuel oil.
Record-keeping was, at best, sketchy. The factory, which produced about 220,000 cars, minivans and trucks last year -- only 2.2 per worker, about one-tenth the number produced by the average Ford worker -- did not even have a formal list of its assets.
"They didn't even know what they owned," an exasperated Mr. Panyushkin said.
The problems added up. The company reported about $190 million in losses last year and was bogged down in about $486 million in old debts -- to suppliers, the government and even the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, whose $65 million loan to GAZ went into default in 1999.
Mr. Deripaska's team, men in their 40's and 50's, say they have moved quickly to impose order on the company's finances. Victor Belyaev, the general director, who was poached from elsewhere in the Russian auto industry, said he had demanded that all buyers pay only in cash and had eliminated middlemen. Plans were canceled for a new-car model that he said had no market. The new management cut one of the factory's shifts, tailoring production to meet demand. A few thousand employees have left the payroll, but only those who volunteered to go, plant managers say.
Rich and politically connected business owners like Mr. Deripaska may be the only hope for this country's foundering manufacturing sector. As they cherry-pick assets, they are exploiting their ability to dominate markets by Russian rules.
So far, forays by Western investors have met with very limited success, as Russia's tangled business environment has overwhelmed foreign auto companies.
"Foreigners are very bad at understanding how things are really done," said Anders Aslund, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. "With the weak rule of law and in the unclear decision-making environment, Russians have a clear advantage."
BMW is producing a handful of cars for a wealthy clientele. Fiat agreed in 1997 to make passenger cars with GAZ, but the venture has yet to build a single automobile. Russia's largest car factory, AvtoVAZ, another ailing Soviet giant, which accounts for more three-quarters of the country's passenger car market, spent years persuading General Motors to work together to produce a Russian-style jeep, to which G.M. finally agreed earlier this year. Ford has a plant outside St. Petersburg that is scheduled to begin production this year of less-expensive versions of its American cars.
Portfolio investors also have little place in the new era of takeovers. GAZ, a publicly traded company, has lost a lot of allure since Mr. Deripaska bought it. Fearing an upset of the status quo, many investors sold their shares, sending the stock price plunging. And those who stayed say they regret doing so.
"In retrospect, we would have rather had cash," said Ian Hague, a partner at Firebird Management L.L.C., a hedge fund based in New York that has a 1 percent stake in GAZ. "It was a blue chip in the stock market and now it's a dog."
GAZ, Russia's second-largest automobile producer by revenue, has just 15 percent of the Russian passenger car market. The sell-off has caused the value of the company to fall below $100 million.
Mr. Hague said that he had received no information about the company's finances from the new owners but that he hoped the investment would pay off over time.
Mr. Deripaska, who grows exasperated by questions about transparency, says he is in the business to make money, not to please minority stakeholders. After acquiring control last autumn, in part by buying shares on the stock market, he began to work on what he says is most important: setting a clear, coherent course for the company, something never done previously because its ownership was splintered.
"IMAGINE if some unit of General Motors was buying motors independently, another one was buying paint and still another was selling cars independently -- total chaos," he said. "That was the situation here."
He said the company had been so poorly run that it would have been worthless had he not established full control. "Management wasn't responsible for their actions -- they generated losses" and began programs that were not realistic, he said. "There were small shareholders, but who asked the general director for the results of the quarter, when we weren't there? Who? There was no one."
As was the case with many of companies sold by the government to private owners in the mid-1990's, ownership at GAZ was divided among many small shareholders. As a result, companies like GAZ often remained under control of their Soviet-era managers, who continued to run companies in part as social welfare agencies.
The big question is whether these companies are even salvageable. Some economists say they will never be good investments because they were designed to operate in the Soviet system. One consultant who did some work at GAZ earlier this year referred to the company as "a swamp."
Some Russian tycoons, like Mikhail Fridman, chairman of the Alfa Group, are also skeptical. His company, a business conglomerate whose holdings include an oil company, a bank and a chain of grocery stores, is betting instead on Russia's new economy: it plans to invest $300 million to $400 million this year in two start-up telecommunications companies. Russia's ailing carmakers are not worth investing in, Mr. Fridman said, because they have too many problems. "That industry is too low tech -- it would be better to start from zero," he said, adding, "Telecoms, on the basis of cash flow, they're not so profitable, but they have big potential."
Mr. Deripaska brushes aside such skepticism. The carmakers' assets are cheap, he said, and all that is needed to turn around the companies are some elementary management skills.
Besides, the group has friends in high places. In an early display of his influence in the Kremlin, Mr. Deripaska and other auto industry executives persuaded Mr. Putin last week to raise tariffs on imported used cars, a major competitor to GAZ's Volgas. Mr. Putin also supports Mr. Deripaska's broad purchases in the auto industry as well as the grouping of the industry into large holding companies.
BACK at the GAZ plant, the marketing people are viewing an advertisement they ordered from a popular music video director in Moscow.
The television commercial, which features a stylish young woman driving a Volga, rock music blaring, will try to make Russians forget the car's association with stodgy bureaucrats. The ad ends with the flashing caption, "You surprise me!"
And maybe -- just maybe -- GAZ will.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Volga sedan nears completion at the Gorky Automobile Factory, top, a troubled carmaker that may yet earn a profit, as plant workers, left, prepare floor mats for the cars. Above, a detail from the "You Surprise Us" Volga ad campaign. (Photographs by Sabrina Tavernise for The New York Times)(pg. 1); A sign at the entrance of the Gorky Automobile Factory, 260 miles east of Moscow, reads, "The Buyers of Our Cars Pay Our Salaries." (Sabrina Tavernise for The New York Times); Oleg Deripaska, 33, an aluminum magnate who took control of the Gorky car plant, has installed new managers and has been aiming to sort out its tangled finances.; Russia's languishing industrial base once included the Gorky Automobile Factory, in Nizhny Novgorod, where workers assembled car engines. (Sabrina Tavernise for The New York Times)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (93%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (76%); TRENDS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); METALS MARKETS (75%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (75%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); TAKEOVERS (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); CURRENCIES (61%); POLITICS (61%); LITIGATION (60%); DEVALUATION (50%) AUTOMOBILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: GORKY AUTOMOBILE FACTORY (RUSSIA) 

PERSON: OLEG DERIPASKA (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) TAVERNISE, SABRINA; DERIPASKA, OLEG 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA; NIZHNY NOVGOROD (RUSSIA)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



433 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Weird Science; 
A Cool Idea to Save Earth

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
AS the nation once again reaches for an iced tea to rub against its forehead, the chat turns inevitably, if listlessly, to global warming, the artificial raising of the planet's thermostat.
 Ratify the Kyoto Protocol? Harms the American economy, says President Bush. Cut back on greenhouse emissions? Drives up electricity prices, say economists. Require smaller cars? Minivans carry my children to school, say the parents. Swelter, swelter, swelter. 
 Enter three scientists pushing a big, if long-term, idea: cool down the Earth by slowly moving it -- the entire planet, that is -- farther away from the Sun.
In a recent issue of the professional journal Astrophysics and Space Science, Don Korycansky, Greg Laughlin and Fred Adams playfully propose finding an asteroid about 60 miles long -- about half the length of Long Island -- to be used in a "gravitational sling shot."
A rocket could be strapped to the asteroid, they say, and the asteroid maneuvered into an immense orbit more than seven times wider than the radius of the solar system. The asteroid would then pass close enough to Earth to tug it gently away from the Sun. (One hitch, the authors acknowledge, would be a collision, which would "sterilize the biosphere most effectively, at least to the level of bacteria.")
While the solution may seem outsized, the three scientists are actually eyeing a larger-scale version of global warming. As the Sun burns through its hydrogen, it gets bigger and brighter, leading to hotter temperatures on Earth. In a billion years, the Sun will be 10 percent brighter, killing off many forms of life on Earth. 
Moving the planet away from the Sun, in this view, is simply shoving it away from a red-hot stove.
It would be fitting if the idea occurred to Mr. Korycansky, the paper's principal author and a planetary scientist at the University of California at Santa Cruz, on a blistering summer day. But it was on a sunny and mild September day in 1999 that Mr. Korycansky chatted with Mr. Laughlin, a scientist at NASA's Ames Research Center, about the daunting problem of the Sun's lethal luminosity.
Earth-moving was Mr. Laughlin's idea, the asteroid was Mr. Korycansky's, while Mr. Adams, a University of Michigan physicist, was brought in later to figure out timing, which, as will be seen, is everything.
As they write in their paper, "the general problem of long-term planetary engineering is almost alarmingly feasible" using current technologies. 
After all, "gravitational slingshots" using Jupiter and Saturn have already been used to propel the Galileo and Cassini deep-space missions. The principle is a lot like a planetary square dance in which even the tiniest dancer can slightly deflect and accelerate a gargantuan partner, and vice versa, as they swing each other round and round.
An asteroid roughly 60 miles long passing within 10,000 miles of Earth would tug the planet into an orbit whose radius gets longer by about 30 miles with each pass, or every 6,000 years. Of course, it would take a long-lived civilization to witness the feat -- the equivalent of the ancient Egyptians firing a deep-space rocket with the expectation that their descendants would greet its return in the 21st century.
Nonetheless, Mr. Korycansky and his friends foresee at least one million of these orbits, slowly balancing out the Sun's increasing ferocity and thus preserving life on Earth.
BY the millionth pass, however, the Earth would have a 50 percent larger orbit. 
"Of course, we'd then have to move Mars," Mr. Korycansky said. Jupiter would be affected, too, and so would Venus, but probably in ways too small to really matter to Earth. "The larger question is," he said, "if you move a planet, is it your responsibility to, you know, shepherd the other planets?"
And the Earth, while rescued, would not escape consequences, either. Every time the asteroid passed, it would exert a tidal force 10 times that of the moon, leading to likely tsunamis, immense storms and other disruptions. "We would have to batten down the hatches," Mr. Korycansky said.
Don't even mention the seasons, say skeptical climate researchers. A bigger orbit means a longer year, affecting the all-important tilt of Earth toward the Sun. 
"At a zero tilt, straight up and down, there would be no seasons," said Dr. Ronald J. Stouffer, who designs computer climate models at the federal Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory. "At a 90-degree tilt, you have two seasons, one that's all daylight all the time and the other that's all nighttime all the time."
Of course, the biggest complication of all is simply this: Instead of missing by a whisker, an ill-timed asteroid larger than Rhode Island could very well crash into the Earth. It would be the gravest miscalculation since, perhaps, a similar one many millions of years ago that wiped out ancient dinosaur astronomers.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); THERMAL SENSORS (77%); ASTROPHYSICS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (76%); PHYSICS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EMISSIONS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); WRITERS (71%); DANCERS (60%) WEATHER; ASTEROIDS; GLOBAL WARMING; SUN; SPACE 

PERSON: LAUGHLIN, GREG; ADAMS, FRED; KORYCANSKY, DON; RAMIREZ, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SATURN (79%); JUPITER (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



434 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Economy Flagging? Don't Tell the Publicists

BYLINE:  By Julie Dunn 

 BODY:
No doubt, here is something that most public relations executives would not mind publicizing: 2000 was the best year for the public relations industry.
 Revenue in the United States rose 33 percent, to nearly $3.4 billion, from 1999, while worldwide revenue was up 34 percent, to $4.6 billion, according to an annual survey by the Council of Public Relations Firms, a trade association. 
The survey was conducted this spring. 
 Growth was heaviest in companies that specialize in technology and financial services -- two sectors that have been under pressure lately. 
The largest public relations firm in the world last year was Fleishman-Hillard, with revenue of $342.84 million, up 61 percent from 1999, when it was fifth. 
The council expects growth in 2001. "It just won't be as strong," said Sarah Drennan, vice president for operations at the council, which forecasts 11 percent industrywide growth. Julie Dunn



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (92%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%) PUBLIC RELATIONS AND PUBLICITY; FINANCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: FLEISHMAN-HILLARD INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FLEISHMAN-HILLARD 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

PERSON: DUNN, JULIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



435 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Navy and Protesters Ready for Next Round 

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: VIEQUES, P.R., June 16 

 BODY:
Carlos Ventura sat in the shade and watched as his brother Angel strung together a fish trap from tamarind tree branches and chicken wire. Once the fish swim through the funnel-like entrance, the fishermen say, no amount of energy will ever let them escape.
 The trap was one of several Angel Ventura was making to replace those the brothers said were destroyed in April during the previous Navy military maneuvers off the eastern tip of Vieques. And those maneuvers have led, the fishermen say, to another trap: one where the Navy cannot silence the protesters who demand an immediate end to the Navy's use of this Puerto Rican island for bombing practice. 
 This week President Bush announced that the Navy's military training in Vieques will end in May 2003, but that is not soon enough for many people, who see the Navy's policy as smacking of colonial arrogance toward Puerto Rico, a self-governing commonwealth of the United States. 
On Monday, when bombing practice runs and other military exercises are set to resume, protesters plan to trespass into Camp Garcia, which occupies the eastern third of Vieques where the maneuvers take place, and be arrested as they call for an immediate silencing of the guns and the return of their land. 
"We are pacifists," said Carlos Ventura, the head of a local fishermen's group and a leader in the anti-Navy movement. "They don't how to deal with that. They use pepper spray, yet we hold out our hands to be cuffed. They get angry and every day put their foot in it more. Every day they become more ensnared."
The scene and mood this week on this slender island that is home to 9,300 people off the eastern coast of the "Big Island" of Puerto Rico has been subdued. There is a sense of dissatisfaction among Navy opponents and supporters alike. Where opponents see unacceptable delays in ending the bombing, supporters feel let down by their government's decision to end the exercises.
Navy officials say that claims that the maneuvers have hurt the health of Vieques residents are not supported by research. They say they are ready to arrest anyone who breaks the law, trespasses on the Camp Garcia range or tosses rocks or bottles at guards, as happened in April.
But Navy opponents, like those who have been camped out in wooden houses and tents outside the entrance to the bombing range, say the bombing has contaminated their land, leading to higher than average rates of cancer, lung and skin ailments. They have planted two dozen white wooden crosses near the entrance to commemorate those who have died from those illnesses. 
For some, the desire to rout the military began when they were children, growing up in houses whose walls trembled and cracked from the reverberations. They, too trembled, for other reasons.
"The soldiers would come to our family's house looking for women," said Luz Leguillou, 57, a retired English teacher. "Without asking they would just come in the door. My father had to deal with that. They did not respect us."
For older residents, the memories of land they had to leave behind as the Navy took over two-thirds of the island are still vivid. 
"My mother, her neighbors were relocated by the government for $50," said Venancio Torrez, 79, who sells lottery tickets from his jeep. "They were taken to cane fields where they had to build ranchos. There are people still alive, children who were born under two planks."
For him, the fact that the military, while more respectful, continues to use the island, is a double hurt, since he is a World War II veteran.
"This very nation of mine betrayed me," Mr. Torrez said. "America. The American military betrayed me."
Yet around the corner from where Mr. Torrez was parked, several women in a variety store said they felt betrayed by President Bush, saying he caved into pressure from a small group of outsiders.
"I depend on the Navy," said Evelyn Sanes, a clerk at the store whose husband is a security guard on the Navy camp. "Let them stay."
The United States military, Ms. Sanes said, had helped Vieques, explaining that when she gave birth to one of her children, a military helicopter took her to the hospital on the mainland of Puerto Rico. 
Ms. Sanes said she was a distant relative of David Sanes, the security guard whose death two years ago in a bombing accident ignited the protest movement. She said David Sanes's father did not want to see the Navy leave, even though other relatives opposed them.
"A great part of the Vieques family is divided," Ms. Sanes said. "It has distanced people."
Juanita Torres Castro, a customer at the store, said the protesters were sympathizers of Puerto Rico's small independence movement. 
"They are people from the Big Island who come here to do their work," Mrs. Torres Castro said. "They want communism here, so they can do what they want with Puerto Rico."
But Wilfredo Matos, the owner of a corner lunch counter, said the question was not about independence, but purely American rights. Puerto Ricans, he said, were American citizens not only by birth, but also by the blood they spilled in military service. 
"I'm a Puerto Rican and Americano, U.S.A.," he said. "In all wars Puerto Ricans have died. They are not going to take that away from us, no sir. We have the right as any other American who has a base next to them."
Many residents here complained that the Navy has done little for Vieques's economy. The original land expropriation destroyed the sugar cane industry here that was once so busy that workers had to be imported. Young people say there are few career opportunities, leaving them little choice after college except to leave. And tourism has dwindled among Americans who fear -- incorrectly -- that chaos reigns on the streets and beaches.
The Navy recently handed over more than 8,000 acres it had used as a munitions depot on the island's western tip. City officials plan to convert it into a marina, tourist-friendly eco-lodges and low-income housing, but they have yet to hear from the federal government about cleaning up the land. 
"The city cannot do any projects there until it is cleaned up," said Henry Gonzalez, the acting mayor. "It is only a symbolic handover."
But symbolism has been a sure strategy among the protesters, whose only weapon is civil disobedience. It is a symbolism that for some has political overtones, as Puerto Ricans navigate nebulous political waters and -- in the words of Hector Pesquera, an independence advocate -- decide "we're either Yankees or Puerto Ricans."
But first, said Ismael Guadalupe, a drama teacher who has been at the forefront of the Navy opposition for decades, Vieques's own status must be decided. 
Mr. Guadalupe's own patch of land once belonged to his father, and though he now owns it, he still has a debt to repay. For him, it encompasses the entire island.
"This is the cost of the struggle from years ago," he said. "We have to respect history and recognize our moral duty to give back to the old ones that which was once theirs."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters have planted wooden crosses near the entrance to the bombing range on Vieques. Carlos Ventura, below, a leader in the anti-Navy movement, says the protesters cannot be silenced. (Photographs by Alex Quesada/Matrix, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US TERRITORIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); NAVIES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (84%); MILITARY BASES (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); ARRESTS (66%); MILITARY TRAINING (57%) NAVIES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (93%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) GONZALEZ, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) PUERTO RICO; VIEQUES (PUERTO RICO)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



436 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: THE BOATING REPORT; 
Britain Returns to Cup Wars With a Plan

BYLINE:  By HERB McCORMICK; Herb McCormick is the editor of Cruising World magazine.

 BODY:
When it comes to losing streaks, it's difficult to conjure one longer or more futile than the one established by Britain in the America's Cup. In 1851 the British lost to a scrappy American boat in what would prove to be the inaugural Cup regatta, and history has repeated itself time and again in the ensuing decades. 
 That is not to say that massive amounts of effort and money have not been invested in pursuit of the prize. Wealthy businessmen from Sir Thomas Lipton to T.O.M. Sopwith to Peter de Savary have all fronted mighty English campaigns to no avail. The British record in Cup finals is 0-16. The last time they reached the finals was in 1964. 
 Lately the British have not even bothered trying. From 1987 to 2000, there was no English challenge for the America's Cup. But the British, who are enjoying a renaissance in sailboat racing, are back in the running for the 2003 Cup event with a gung-ho program called the GBR Challenge. The man who kick-started it, with roughly $10 million from his own pocket, is doing so with few illusions and a well-thought-out plan.
"We can win this Cup battle," Peter Harrison, the 64-year-old technology entrepreneur, said recently by phone from London. "Maybe not in two minutes, but if we gain enough know-how and put all the necessary elements together, there's no reason we can't win in the longer run. I only like to take on battles which I can eventually win."
Harrison's track record in business suggests that these are not idle boasts. In 1976 he invested in a shaky Russian marine-instruments company called Chernikeeff. A year ago, having nurtured it into one of Britain's leading telecommunications concerns, Harrison sold his remaining shares in the firm and cashed out with $450 million.
An accomplished amateur yachtsman who actively races his own Farr 50 -- and a former rugby player who competed regularly into his 50's -- Harrison joined the Cup wars almost out of a sense of duty.
"There's been talk over here for years about getting back in but no one was willing to put their money where their mouth was," he said. "Having done that big deal last year, I realized I was in a position to get it started."
Harrison soon discovered that his corporate background was useful in the Cup game. "I realized it's just like a big business exercise in the sense that all your management skills and thinking and horizon planning are the same," he said.
A pragmatist, Harrison readily identified the two sets of assets he immediately required: talented, committed people and the boats and equipment on which to begin training them. For the latter, he scored a bargain when for less than $3 million he purchased from the failed Japanese Nippon Challenge what amounted to an America's Cup starter kit: three Cup-class yachts and seven containers full of the sails and gear necessary to race them.
And after that item was checked off, Harrison purchased a failed boat yard in Cowes, adjacent to the Solent, the channel between the English mainland and the Isle of Wight. It has become the campaign's base of operations.
"With all that, we had something to get our guys started," he said. Harrison also hired two of the former Nippon engineers for his design team, and the former New Zealand Cup sailor, David Barnes, as the program's general manager.
With the exception of those three foreigners, however, the majority of the 47-member GBR syndicate is made up of young, home-grown talent. Eschewing established Brit cup veterans like Harold Cudmore and Chris Law, Harrison hired the two-time Olympic dinghy silver medalist Ian Walker as the team's sailing manager.
"I'm a practical guy," Harrison said. "We could get very lucky and steam through and win it in one go. But that's a high mountain to climb, and if you look at the Australians and the Kiwis, it took them a few tries. So the key thing as I see it is to be able to build on young people."
Harrison made it clear that he did not envision bankrolling the entire GBR budget of $25 million. "We haven't seriously developed our sponsorship program yet, but I'm seeking to run this as commercially as I can," he said. 
In what spare time he has -- Harrison serves as a chairman at his former company and has established a $45 million charitable foundation in which he is actively involved -- he enjoys reading works of military and economic history. 
"What I've found is that business, and men and their motivations, are the same now as then," he said. "Technology's the only thing that's changed."
Harrison could be on to something. The ardent technologist may be the person to turn the tide on a streak he has no desire to perpetuate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Harrison, at helm of his company's Admirals Cup yacht, contributed $10 million to the GBR Challenge. (Mark Pepper/Marinepics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAILING (90%); BOAT RACING (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); RUGBY (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



437 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2174 words

HEADLINE: In First Year, a Tough Balancing Act for Egan 

BYLINE:  By DAN BARRY 

 BODY:
In the parlor of a large Midtown home, the chairs are straight backed and the paintings museum worthy. At one end stands a white-upholstered armchair, reserved for the pope when he comes to town. At the other end, on a small table near the door, sits a four-cornered red hat, signaling a cardinal is in residence.
 In this formal setting, the current resident -- a classical pianist and canon lawyer who speaks several languages -- seems perfectly at ease. He glances at his empty coffee cup, resting on a napkin embossed with the seal of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, and looks about for the Irish housekeeper, who happens to be in another room. 
 Teasingly, Cardinal Edward M. Egan calls out: "If you're giving away coffee, we'll take some more." 
Tomorrow is Cardinal Egan's first anniversary as the leader of a sprawling and complex archdiocese that includes 2.4 million Roman Catholics in 10 counties. He was chosen by Pope John Paul II to succeed Cardinal John J. O'Connor, the outspoken defender of traditional Catholic doctrine and the poor who, in his 16 years as archbishop, became as familiar to New Yorkers as any mayor or sports star.
But Cardinal Egan is not Cardinal O'Connor, just as Cardinal O'Connor was not his reticent predecessor, Cardinal Terence Cooke. He rarely speaks to reporters, and so is largely a mystery to the general public, except for indications that, unlike Cardinal O'Connor in later years, he does not hesitate to close schools and lay off employees to stem an ever-growing archdiocesan deficit.
"You have to bring what you stand for, what is central in your own thought," the cardinal said. "I can't bring anything but Edward Egan."
More than a dozen parish priests throughout the archdiocese said that what Cardinal Egan brings is a mandate to close an ever-growing budget gap and to attract more men to the archdiocese's dwindling ranks of actively working priests, who now number 583, down from 807 in 1981. He has approached this job with much-needed decisiveness, they say, although some find him so distant and clinical that they call him "Edward Scissorhands."
"The cardinal is trying to get a lot done as quickly as he can," explained Msgr. Peter Finn, whom the cardinal named as the rector of St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers. "I don't think whatever he's doing intends to be offensive, but to be as expedient as possible considering the many, many challenges he is facing in many, many areas."
But the Rev. Aldo Tos, the pastor of St. Joseph's Church in Greenwich Village, said that so far, the cardinal had made substantive changes without consulting the parish priests. "He almost gives the impression of being lord of the manor," he said, "rather than shepherd of the flock."
During an hourlong interview last week, Cardinal Egan, 69, seemed sensitive about being portrayed as a budget-focused chief executive in a miter -- an inaccurate perception fostered, he said, by the media and former archdiocesan employees. There are many other matters to tend to, he suggested, in an archdiocese that includes 413 parishes and hundreds of schools, hospitals, nursing homes, mental health residences and day care centers.
To detail his busy schedule, he volunteered a 10-page list of his appointments in recent months, as well as a year's worth of the weekly newspaper Catholic New York (which will soon appear monthly as part of the cardinal's budget-balancing efforts). In March alone, his appointments included several celebrations of Mass; breakfast with prominent real estate developers; lunch with Gov. George E. Pataki; dinners with the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick; a meeting on the proposed sainthood of Dorothy Day; a meeting with Dennis Rivera, the union leader; and the screening of a movie about Jesus, at Radio City Music Hall.
The cardinal said that his efforts to balance the budget and increase vocations are intended to support his goal of strengthening the archdiocese's parishes. "I am about, first and foremost, serving 413 communities of faith," he said. "And I think that a lot of things fall into place if someone accepts that point of view."
He defended, testily at times, his handling of several matters that have led some priests and lay people to call him imperious. He seemed more at ease talking about how he had come to love New York -- so much that he, an Illinois native and Cubs fan, now roots for the Yankees.
"Under the wonderful inspiration of the New York clergy," he said, "I learned that I could be led to the path of righteousness."
This hint of the cardinal's sly wit, often employed in homilies and at intimate gatherings, was brief; for the most part, he fulfilled his reputation for directness. He acknowledged, for example, that he had done away with Cardinal O'Connor's practice of leaving Wednesday afternoons open for any priest who wanted a private session with his bishop, a habit that burnished the cardinal's reputation as a priest's priest.
"That I don't do," Cardinal Egan said. "But I assure you this: any priest that calls to see me, I see. I'm not criticizing, but just to, say, walk in, isn't the way I operate. If somebody's coming to see me about something that's serious to him, I want to get the background about him and about the issue."
So far, there have been only sporadic public flashes of Cardinal Egan's style and opinions. In November he urged Roman Catholic voters to support candidates who "share our commitment to fundamental rights for the unborn," and he traveled to Albany in March to conduct some lobbying. Also in March, he publicly criticized the Brooklyn Museum of Art for exhibiting work by two black artists that he described as anti-Catholic, and suggested that "bigots" had essentially put up the artists to attack the church.
"In both cases you had minority people," he explained last week. "One painted, or is alleged to have painted, a picture of the Madonna. And listen, with pornography cut out of magazines and pasted to it, and excrement put on it. The other one, another minority person, takes a picture of a naked woman imitating Christ at the Last Supper.
"And the elite -- the foolish elite -- thought this was just great," he said. "And I say it is very sad that we use people in this way. If you want to damage the Catholic Church, do it on your own."
These forays into the public debate are few; the cardinal more commonly reveals himself in private moments. Lawrence Kudlow, the economist, who had a foot washed by the cardinal at St. Patrick's Cathedral during the annual re-enactment of the Last Supper, called it "the most moving, humbling experience I have ever had in my life." Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, said that she came away from a meeting with the cardinal -- during which they agreed and disagreed on various educational issues -- thinking that he was strong-willed but elegant: "a born leader."
Then there is the priest -- one of many who asked that his name not be used -- who recalled how, at the end of a Mass for the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe, the cardinal summoned many priests in attendance to the back of the altar at St. Patrick's. Some thought it was for a group picture. Instead, he said, the cardinal angrily complained about the sloppy execution of a Mass attended by thousands of Mexican immigrants who "deserved better." 
"It didn't leave a good first impression," the priest added. But when asked about the incident, the cardinal said he had made his point; since then, he said, "We have not had the slightest slip-up." 
Edward Egan was only briefly a parish priest; for most of his 43-year career he has been an administrator, lawyer and teacher at the top of the Roman Catholic hierarchy, including a 14-year assignment in Rome. In 1985, he was ordained a bishop and sent to New York, where, archdiocesan lore has it, Bishop Egan, the Vatican scholar, clashed with Cardinal O'Connor, a former Navy chaplain. 
"If you believe the stories you read, Cardinal O'Connor and I were somehow enemies," Cardinal Egan said, then quickly added: "It's just nonsense." 
In late 1988, Bishop Egan was appointed to lead the 360,000 Roman Catholics in the struggling Diocese of Bridgeport in Connecticut. Over the next dozen years, he ran a successful fund-raising campaign, attracted dozens of new priests and eliminated debt by consolidating parishes and closing several schools. But his style was criticized for lacking a pastoral touch, especially when it came to victims of sexual abuse by priests.
In May 2000, Cardinal O'Connor died. Besides a formidable legacy, he left behind some schools, parishes and hospitals in crisis, and a ledger as red as a cardinal's biretta.
The archdiocese's finances remain a mystery of the church. Officials decline to be specific, other than to say that revenues are between $500 million and $600 million a year, and that there has been an annual budget gap of $20 million for several years.
Cardinal Egan said that he and a handful of aides spent the first several months listening to representatives from every office in the archdiocese. ("It went on and on and on, in marvelous detail," he said. "You can check: not one person was interrupted.") Then came the first round of cuts: the consolidation of the seminary; the closing of three schools; the elimination of 11 offices and 23 jobs at the archdiocese's East Side headquarters.
"There were some things that needed to be done," said Msgr. Dominick Lagonegro, pastor at St. Columba's Church in Hopewell Junction, in Dutchess County. "I may not agree with all of them. They are very tough and very difficult and very complicated -- and I don't want his job."
Still, there lingered the sense that the layoffs at the headquarters had not been handled particularly well. Maria Guarracino, who had run the Office for Women's Concerns for 12 years, said she was summoned to the cardinal's office and told that she was being fired and her office eliminated, all in less than five minutes. "He takes total command of the conversation while you wait for a word to get in edgewise," she said. "And there was no thank you."
Cardinal Egan said he was concerned about misunderstandings about the closing of offices like the women's office, especially given the Vatican's adamant refusal to permit the ordination of women. But he also suggested that some offices were not worth the expense.
"You have to ask: What did one or another office do?" he said. "Could somebody find something that happened during the year? One thing that happened during the year? And if they could find it, maybe we could have no problem filling it in."
More famous, at least in archdiocesan circles, were the cardinal's actions at St. Joseph's Seminary on March 15, when he assembled the teachers and administrators in an auditorium and read aloud a list of names. Those whose names were not called out were thanked for their service -- which meant that their service had just been terminated.
The public firing stung so much that one priest described himself as still "ripping angry" more than two months later. But he declined to comment further, saying: "It's a priest-and-bishop thing."
In recent months the cardinal has traveled throughout the 4,700-square-mile archdiocese, which is divided into regions called vicariates, to dine with local priests and hold question-and-answer sessions with lay people. The cardinal's close-up charm, several priests say, has warmed his cold reputation -- although some say they still cannot tell where he stands on pastoral issues like the role of the laity.
Budget cutbacks have colored many meetings, no more dramatically than in the South Bronx last month. Led by their pastor, the Rev. John Grange, parishioners of St. Jerome's Church in Mott Haven packed the meeting to plead that their church, in disrepair, be saved -- even though the archdiocese had not expressed plans to close it. 
The meeting degenerated into a frosty confrontation. Father Grange later described the cardinal as impatient, unsympathetic. The cardinal called Father Grange's domination of a meeting that was intended for several parishes "an outrage."
After the session ended abruptly, Father Grange said, he approached Cardinal Egan to make amends, but the cardinal "signaled for me to stay out of his way." The cardinal agreed: "And if I had to do it again, I'd do the same thing, and so would you."
Cardinal Egan ended last week's interview by saying, almost apologetically, that he would be in Rome for the month of October; the pope had appointed him to a leadership position for the Synod of Bishops. He also said he expected things to calm down in the archdiocese: "Once I have certain things in proper order, let's see if you don't find out this is a pretty consultative diocese."
He rose from his parlor's couch. It was time to leave for the seminary in Yonkers, where he would address hundreds of priests on the need to detect and report evidence of sexual abuse and misconduct by the clergy. With an aide trailing behind, he headed for the door.
"Off we go," the cardinal said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cardinal Edward M. Egan views his actions in terms of serving parishes. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Cardinal Edward M. Egan at St. John the Baptist Church in Yonkers. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); MAYORS (77%); CITIES (77%); BUDGETS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (53%); ATHLETES (51%) 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: EGAN, EDWARD M (CARDINAL); BARRY, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



438 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: An Exodus of Migrant Families Is Bleeding Mexico's Heartland 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: CASA BLANCA, Mexico 

 BODY:
The quaint houses on Pancho Villa Street tell lies with their fresh coats of paint, rooftop satellite dishes and swing sets out back.
 Almost no one lives here anymore. 
 The families -- usually fathers first, followed years later by their wives and children -- have been swept north by the desperate torrent that carries floods of immigrants to the United States, leaving widening swaths of central Mexico abandoned.
Most of the 3,300 people who left Casa Blanca in the last decade moved to Tulsa, Okla. Fewer than 2,500 remain in this desert village, which is nearly 250 miles northwest of Mexico City, and many of them speak of their home as a ghost town. 
Only two families are left on Pancho Villa Street, a curvy dirt road that winds off the main square. 
Everyone else has gone. The university-trained agronomist, who migrated to Tulsa 10 years ago, had built the pink house on the corner for his wife and three children. But on his annual visit home two years ago, the scholar-turned-bricklayer packed up and took his family north.
The woman who lived in the mint green house left to tend to her grandchildren. There are towels neatly hanging on a rack in her bathroom, and silk flowers on her dresser.
"The question we always ask is, 'Will our community survive?' " said Gonzalo Llamas Bernal.
For generations, many farmers made temporary forays up north and sent money home. But now a shift in migration patterns has squeezed parts of this country's rural core to the verge of extinction. With a growing American law enforcement presence on the border, illegal crossings have become so difficult -- and even deadly -- that many migrants and their families choose to stay in the United States, rather than to risk a repeated crossing, migration experts say. 
And if the trend continues, the kinetic links that migrants have maintained with their home communities may begin to burn out. 
The exodus is hitting central Mexican states hard, ones like Jalisco, Zacatecas and Michoacan. That state reported that the number of migrants leaving for the United States has increased to some 50,000 people each year. About half of them move permanently to the United States, and more Michoacanos currently live in California, Illinois and Texas than in their homeland.
About 30,000 people migrate north each year from Casa Blanca and other towns in the drought-plagued state of Zacatecas, where the phenomenon suffuses politics, music and childhood dreams.
A teacher in Casa Blanca said enrollment had declined from 500 students in 1989 to 100 students this school year. The students who do not move north with their parents often make the journey on their own once they finish sixth grade, he said.
A group of third graders at the school, named for the revolutionary Emiliano Zapata, did not seem worried about the prospect of a Mexico abandoned by all its children.
Alfredo Navario, an 8-year-old with gelled-back hair, shrugged his shoulders and said, "Others will be born."
If the migrants were relocating to Mexican cities, rather than the United States, the abandonment of villages like Casa Blanca would seem little more than an inevitable progression because declining federal agricultural subsidies have made it hard for the farming industry to support large numbers of small growers. But migration is a multibillion-dollar venture for Mexico. 
Immigrants send home an estimated $6.3 billion each year. That money -- the nation's third largest source of income, behind oil and tourism -- has not only provided relatives money for food, clothing and medicine. Migrants also pooled their money and filled in for strapped or corrupt local governments by supporting public works projects that ranged from paving streets and installing potable-water systems to refurbishing churches and furnishing classrooms with computers.
Rodolfo Garcia Zamora, a migration expert at the Autonomous University of Zacatecas, estimated that Zacatecas received about $1 million in remittances each day, an amount that is greater than the money this state receives from the national government.
Migration experts worry that having entire families and villages transplanted north of the border could pose serious economic consequences because incentives to send money home could wane. 
"Money from remittances contributes significantly to the political and economic stability of the state," Dr. Garcia said. "And if the current trends continue, there could be deep recessions in Zacatecas and in much of north-central Mexico."
While he has been a vocal advocate for making the United States-Mexico border more open to the free flow of Mexican workers, President Vicente Fox, in office seven months, has also said that he aims to carry out projects that would help lift rural areas out of poverty to encourage more Mexicans to stay home. Last week, he inaugurated a micro-lending program aimed at supporting homespun businesses in the poorest regions of the country. And through a cabinet-level office devoted to the needs of Mexicans abroad, the Fox administration hopes to obtain investments from migrants in the United States for educational and economic projects.
So far, the effects of the trend have left deceiving mirages across states like Michoacan and Zacatecas. Villages flush with American dollars have many of the trappings of gentrification: adobe hovels have been transformed into two-story brick houses; crumbling churches, some dating to the 16th century, have been restored; new benches and brightly painted litter bins have been placed around town squares. But up close, the comfortable images give way to distress. The houses, the pews and the park benches are empty.
Of the 2,200 people who lived in the Michoacan village of Huacao 10 years ago, only 400 remain -- nearly all of them are women, children too young to trek across the border, or elderly people who feel too weary. To them, the United States is a place called "over there." And when they talk about it, their voices drone with abandonment.
"My husband does not want to take us with him because most of our children are too young," said 33-year-old Consuelo Cortes, whose husband, parents and seven siblings have all left Huacao for California. "To keep myself from feeling sad, I devote a lot of time to taking care of the house. I grow a little bit of corn, and I take care of my pigs.
"That is my entertainment," she went on. "I spend time with my animals."
Ventura Vega, a 60-year-old grandfather, said all 11 of his children had moved their families to California. He said that after the children were born he supported them by migrating for six months every year to pick apples in Washington. It was the only way to keep the family fed, he said.
Nothing has changed for families since then.
"Everyone is leaving," he said. "Just look in all the houses and you see that there's no one. Once we had a group of musicians that performed in the plaza. Even they have gone. And now we are left with no music."
Migrants from these regions have traveled to the United States for so long that people talk about illegally crossing an international border as if it were a weekend getaway. News about the 14 immigrants who died from exposure in the Arizona desert in May stirred little public panic in Zacatecas because, people said, such tragedies happen rarely to migrants from this state.
Mario Garcia, mayor of a Zacatecas migrant community called El Cargadero, said most people who go have reliable guides -- their fathers, brothers, and uncles who are part of informal community "social networks" -- and they take routes that have been tested by time.
"Sometimes our people get caught by the migra," Mayor Garcia said, "but they just keep trying until they get across." 
However, the mayor sounded a rare note of anger about the flight of all his constituents. The farmers who stay, he said, often have to import workers from states farther south because people in Zacatecas refuse to work for average Mexican wages. Small assembly plants in the state have been forced to close because they could not find workers who would accept $4-a-day wages.
"The people here can make more money by staying at home and waiting for a check from the United States, so many of them do not work," said Pedro Chavez, who runs a pig farm in the area. "At least they do not want to work in Mexico.
"People here have one thing in mind," he said with a scowl, "and that is to go to the United States."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Empty streets in Guadalupe, in rural central Mexico, attest to the flood of families who have swept north and stayed in the last decade.; Children in a class in Zacatecas, where many leave after sixth grade. (Photographs by Arturo Fuentes for The New York Times)(pg. 8) Map of Mexico highlighting Casa Blanca: Most of those from Casa Blanca have moved to Tulsa, Okla. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); TRENDS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); REFUGEES (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); AGRONOMY (68%); DROUGHT (64%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); DESERTS (55%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POPULATION; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; RURAL AREAS; ILLEGAL ALIENS 

PERSON: THOMPSON, GINGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (57%) OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%) MEXICO; CASA BLANCA (MEXICO); TULSA (OKLA)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



439 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week In Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Sliced Another Way: Per Capita Emissions

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
European leaders and private environmental groups have long pointed to the United States as the largest single source of carbon dioxide emissions, which most scientists link to a global warming trend. President Bush last week pointed out that although the United States is the world's biggest emitter, it also provides the most goods and services to global markets. 
 But when G.D.P. and emissions are measured and compared on a per capita basis, the playing field suddenly gets much more mixed, with Singapore, Australia, and Saudi Arabia joining the United States in the group with far above average output of carbon dioxide, while other counties prove more efficient at producing things without adding to the greenhouse effect. 
 The conclusion some economists draw is that prosperity does not always have to come with environmental costs, and environmental cleanups can be achieved without necessarily harming economies.
 ANDREW C. REVKIN

CORRECTION-DATE: June 24, 2001

 CORRECTION:
This chart, which appeared last Sunday, incorrectly labeled the trend line as the "average ratio of emissions to G.D.P." The line actually represents a statistical calculation known as linear regression and a more accurrate description is provided above. The chart should be used to compare emission levels in countries with similar G.D.P.'s. It is not intended to compare countries of vastly differing G.D.P.'s.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Pollution vs. Prosperity"Among selected countries Countries above the line emit more than the average amount of carbon after adjusting emissions and economy size for population. Graph showing countries average ratio of emissions to gross domestic product in 1997.(Sources: C.I.A.; Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center)Chart: "Per Capita Emissions"Among selected countries Countries above the line emit more than the expected amount of carbon when compared with countries of similar G.D.P Chart compares emission levels in countries with similar G.D.P.(Sources: C.I.A.; Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



440 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week In Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/Hawaiian Hula Lyrics; 
Roach-Eaten Hankies and Arctic Winds: You Call That Paradise?

BYLINE:  By LAWRENCE DOWNES 

 BODY:
THE question may strike you at some quiet moment on your Hawaii vacation -- under a banyan tree maybe, when the sun starts melting into the Pacific and when a last long pull on your straw yields only the clinking of ice and a low, mournful gurgle.
 At this point, gnawing absently on your pineapple spear, you may focus on the woman in front of you with the red muumuu and ukulele, and as her sweet falsetto wraps your head in a gauze of wistfulness and serenity, you may find yourself wondering, "What the heck is she saying?" 
 Do you really want to know?
 Then get "Party Hulas," a 1965 album of hula standards that was reissued on CD in April by Hula Records of Honolulu. Not only does it feature the legendary Aunty Genoa Keawe, the first lady of Hawaiian song, it also has, for the first time, annotated lyrics and English translations for every song. 
 The notes and translations, some of which appear below, will be a revelation to non-speakers of Hawaiian who have heard these war-horse hulas. And if you have ever been to Hawaii -- where songs like these are ubiquitous in hula shows, lounge acts, gift shops and hotel lobbies -- this surely includes you.
 While hulas contain a fair amount of pastoral imagery and romantic sentimentality, they also deal with things that count: carnality, jealousy, thwarted desire, ineffable longing and other topics that are just plain ineffable.
 The songs are part of a sly Hawaiian musical tradition called kaona, in which multiple meanings are conveyed through innocuous imagery. Songs that mention rocking chairs, flowers, slippery fish or sea spray might be about just those things, or something else, or both, or neither. A hula performer might say one thing with her voice and hands, and quite another with her eyes and smile. LAWRENCE DOWNES

ON LONGING AND LOVEMAKING
Papalina Lahilahi

"It seems that in old Hawaii too, there were people who always asked, 'But do you really love me?' This answer is not the gentlest. A further note: In Hawaiian songs, lovemaking is referred to poetically by mentioning mist, spray, rain."

He aloha wau ia 'oe la
I love you
Kou papalina lahilahi
Your dainty cheeks
I ka ho'opulu mau 'ia la
Always damp
I ka hunehune o ke kai.
From sea spray.

He aha no ho'i kau la
What's the reason for
O ke alawiki 'ana mai?
Hurrying this way?
Ua 'ike iho no 'oe la
You've known
A he pua 'oe ua 'ako 'ia.
You're a flower already plucked.

ON LOVE AND JEALOUSY
'Ahulili

He aloha no 'Ahulili
'Ahulili is loved
He lili paha ko ia ala
But perhaps is jealous
I ke kau mau 'ole ia
When (loving) isn't there all the time
E ka 'ohu kau kuahiwi.
Like mist that settles on the mountains.

Eia no e ka 'olu
Here's what will satisfy
Ke 'ala kupaha'o.
The mysterious fragrance.
A lawa ko makemake
When you have what you want
E manene ai ko kino.
Your whole being trembles.

ON LOVE AND...WHO KNOWS WHAT
Mauna Loa

"This is not about the mountain, or even . . . really . . . about the ship named for it. And the performance here is deceptively sweet. . . . These days, at least one verse is left out for being a little too strong, even in Hawaiian."

'Auhea wale 'oe, 'o Mauna Loa la
Listen, o Mauna Loa
Kikala nui
Of the wide stern
Ho'iho'i mai 'oe, i ku'u aloha la
Return my love
E, e, e, Ka'awaloa nei.
Here to Ka'awaloa.

Ua hiki no 'oe a'e hele ana la
Until you come
Me ka ipo manuwahi
With my lover
A na'u no ia 'oni ho'okahi la
It's my lot to be restless, alone
E, e, e i kahi pela a'o kaua.
In that place that's for us two.

Ko hinaka popopo la
Your hankie is worn out
Ua 'ai 'ia ka elelu
Eaten by roaches
A na'u no ia a sawele nei la
I use it to wipe off
E, e, e, ko kama'a miomio.
Your pointy-toe shoes.

ON ARCTIC NAVIGATION AND SEX (MAYBE)
'Alika

"This title is translated variously as Alaska, or Arctic -- no matter, both places are plenty cold. . . . The message of the lyrics can be straightforward enough -- except the vocabulary used to convey that message is so close as almost to be identical to the words which might be used to describe something quite different indeed."

Aia i 'Alika
There in the Arctic
Ka ihu o ka moku
The prow of the ship
Ua hao o pa'ihi
Set firmly
Na pe'a i ka makani.
Sails in the wind.

Ke liolio nei
Taut
Ke kaulu likini
Rigging lines
'Alu'alu 'ole iho,
Not slack,
Na pe'a i ka makani.
Sails in the wind.

'A'ole i kau pono,
Not fixed.
Ka newa i ka piko.
The needle in the north.
Ka'a 'e ka huila,
The wheel turns,
E niniu i ka makani.
Spinning in the wind.

Ha'ina 'ia mai
Tell
Ana ka puana
The refrain.
Aia i 'Alika
There in the Arctic
Ka ihu o ka moku.
The prow of the ship.

ON RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
Kane'ohe

Olapa ka uila i Kane'ohe
The electricity flashes in Kane'ohe
Ka hui laulima o i lani wai.
(because of) the cooperative association

Hui:
Chorus:
Me ka ua a Puakea
And the rain of Puakea
Ka la'i o Malulani
The calm of Malulani
Me ke anu o ke Ko'olau.
And the cliff of the Ko'olau Range

Ho'okahi mea hou ma He'eia
There's something new at He'eia
Ka uwea kelekalapa leo nahenahe.
The soft-voice telegraph wire.
Ha'ina ia mai ana ka puana
The story is told
Ua 'a ka uila a'i Kane'ohe.
How electricity burned in Kane'ohe.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At 82, Aunty Genoa Keawe is still going strong -- every Thursday, in fact, in the lobby bar of the Waikiki Beach Marriott Hotel, 5:30 to 8:30 p.m., no cover, no minimum. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (88%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) AIR POLLUTION; CARBON DIOXIDE; GLOBAL WARMING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



441 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: On the Menu: Modified Genes 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The biotechnology companies' arrogant, steamroller agenda to force the world to eat genetically modified food is not inevitable (front page, June 10). The amount of acreage planted in the United States with genetically modified corn dropped from about 33 percent in 1999 to 24 percent this year. 
 Competitor exporting countries are gearing up their marketing strategy for nongenetically modified foods to capture American markets. Yet rather than advise American farmers to identify what consumers want and then grow it, the American soybean group quoted in the article and like-minded groups have lined up with those same biotech companies that patent seeds, raise seed prices, cost farmers export markets and hammer commodity prices.
American corn growers don't want the 24 percent of acreage planted with genetically modified crops to wreck the markets, prices or consumer confidence for 100 percent of our crop. We want consumers to have a choice.

DAN MCGUIRE
Lincoln, Neb., June 11, 2001

The writer is a member of the board of directors of the American Corn Growers Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC ENGINEERING (92%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (88%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (88%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (88%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (87%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (87%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (87%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (87%); CORN MARKETS (87%); EXPORT PRICES (87%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (71%); MARKETING STRATEGY (70%); PRICE INCREASES (68%) AGRICULTURE; GENETICS AND HEREDITY 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CORN GROWERS ASSN 

PERSON: MCGUIRE, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LINCOLN, NE, USA (51%) NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



442 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: For Vieques, 2 Years Is a Long Time 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Does President Bush really imagine that protests will end because he's declaring a halt to the military exercises and aerial bombings on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques starting two years from now (front page, June 15)? 
 In two years' time, how many adults and children on the island will develop cancer, scleroderma, lupus, thyroid deficiencies and serious asthma? How much higher will the rate of unemployment go? What about the continuing contamination of air, drinking water and fish, as well as the continuing destruction of delicate ecosystems of plant and animal life? 
If your children were among the 9,300 inhabitants of Vieques, would you be willing to wait two years for the bombing to stop? 
The military exercises and aerial bombings must stop immediately. Let the May 2003 deadline be for the Navy to decontaminate Vieques' air, land and water, and to restore the island to its former agricultural fertility.

PATRICIA LAY-DORSEY
Grosse Pointe, Mich., June 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); CHILDREN (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ANIMALS (69%); SCLERODERMA (55%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (55%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%)

PERSON: LAY-DORSEY, PATRICIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) PUERTO RICO; VIEQUES (PUERTO RICO)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



443 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Orbitz Takes Off, in the Spotlight 

BYLINE:  By BOB TEDESCHI 

 BODY:
INTERNET companies have earned their share of criticism in the last few years, whether through hubris or incompetence. But arguably no dot-com has been subject to as much scrutiny before its debut as Orbitz, the new online travel agency owned by five of the nation's biggest airlines. 
 Consumer groups have decried it as anticompetitive, a sentiment echoed (not surprisingly) by the company's rivals, most notably Expedia and Travelocity. 
 "I really believe Orbitz will become a platform for collusion," Mark Silbergeld, co-director of the Consumers Union's Washington office, said after Orbitz's first week of operation. "All the major competitors in an already highly concentrated industry now have a platform from which to agree how to market their tickets." 
Orbitz executives respond that since all the fares are made public on the site, price collusion would be easily spotted. Furthermore, they say, the federal Department of Transportation reviewed such anticompetitive concerns before clearing Orbitz in early April. (An investigation by the Justice Department is ongoing.)
Regardless, now that the Web site (www.orbitz.com) has finally rolled out, the first reviews are rolling in. Although the site still has much to prove, it appears to be equal to, or even slightly better than, its chief competitors when it comes to low fares, site design and customer service. 
"Orbitz has come roaring out of the gate," said Henry Harteveldt, an analyst with Forrester Research, an Internet consulting firm. "They have one of the broadest arrays, if not the broadest array, of low fares. And their real secret sauce is in their customer service." 
In the short term, Orbitz -- owned by American, Continental, Delta, Northwest and United -- should provide consumers with a welcome experience, especially on Wednesdays. That's the day airlines typically release last-minute low-price Web fares. Unlike other online agencies, Orbitz has agreements with 35 airlines requiring them to share any publicly available fare.
So consumers can spare themselves a trip to the various airline sites by logging on to Orbitz to search for last-minute getaways. On the Wednesday after the site's June 4 debut, for instance, I found a $227 round-trip T.W.A. fare for nonstop flights between J.F.K. in New York and San Francisco, taking off on Saturday morning and returning on Monday evening.
Searching the same dates on Expedia, the lowest fare from a known carrier was $296 -- also from T.W.A. Expedia also offered a $246 Bargain Fare, but it would not tell consumers precisely when or with whom they would be traveling until they bought the ticket. On Travelocity, a $463 flight on National Airlines was the lowest comparable fare shown.
Orbitz seemed to produce good results on other days, too. On a Tuesday, for instance, I researched three trips, all from La Guardia to San Francisco. For one, I replicated a last-minute business trip, departing the next day and returning two days later. The others involved weeklong excursions, with one beginning a month from my booking date and the second 60 days from booking.
For the business trip, Expedia and Travelocity matched Orbitz's lowest fare of $665 from American Trans Air (from La Guardia). But Orbitz let me easily modify my flight search to include other airports within a 100-mile radius -- a great feature for places like New York and the San Francisco area, which both have multiple airports. Within 30 seconds, Orbitz returned a $610 nonstop on Jet Blue from J.F.K. to Oakland. Neither Travelocity nor Expedia offered the chance to modify my search this way. (On Expedia, you must choose a specific airport, and on Travelocity a city.) 
For the hypothetical vacation 30 days later, Orbitz, Expedia and Travelocity again matched one another with $352 round trips with one stop. But again, when I widened my search, Orbitz beat them: $287 nonstop on T.W.A. from Kennedy to San Francisco -- at least $50 less than Travelocity and Expedia. 
For the trip 60 days later, Orbitz returned a $238 T.W.A. round trip with one stop. Expedia found one for $315 from American Trans Air with one stop, and Travelocity turned up one from US Airways with one stop for $304.50. 
As enticing as it may be to extrapolate these results, Mr. Harteveldt, of Forrester, cautioned against declaring anyone the winner in a lowest-fare contest. Because the airlines' computer software changes fares thousands of times each day based on how full a flight is, there's no such thing as the lowest price, he said. 
Orbitz is an attractive, mostly easy-to-use site, with air fare results in a readable grid showing the lowest- to highest-priced airlines from left to right. Below the grid are each flight's details, including travel time. 
Perhaps because Orbitz is owned by airlines, the air fare category is more refined than the other functions. The rental car category is fairly useful, giving a simple menu of car preferences, then displaying prices in an easy-to-swallow graphic. 
But the hotel function on Orbitz leaves much room for improvement. Consumers cannot select a price range or grade of hotel -- only brands -- which would be fine if the results were displayed in order of cost. Instead, they fall seemingly random, without the kind of graphics that make the airline and car searches painless. You must click on a hotel listing to find its rates, and worse, the site sometimes displays hotels that are not available on the nights selected. 
On Expedia, by contrast, the least-expensive, best-rated hotels were displayed first and users can modify searches based on the quality of the hotel (from one to five stars). Travelocity displays the least expensive hotels first, along with icons showing various amenities, but unlike Expedia, it does not give easily-digested ratings. Instead users must click to the descriptions and hope they provide enough information for a decision.
Despite some opening-week technical problems, including a brief shutdown for an upgrade, customer service is an area where Orbitz said it hopes to make headway against its competitors. And at first glance, some of its initiatives are indeed different from those of Travelocity and Expedia. 
While the latter two sites offer e-mail alerts about airline delays or cancellations, and Travelocity will page you with updates on gate changes and flight delays, Orbitz says it goes further. For instance, instead of relying solely on information from the airlines, Orbitz says it employs former air traffic controllers who scan data from the Federal Aviation Administration, air traffic control systems and weather services to determine whether customers can expect delays.
The company will send updates to customers beginning three hours before departure -- notably, via the phone, cell phone, wireless handheld computer or e-mail. Or if they prefer, Orbitz will set up a free personal voice-mail box to hear updates or create a list of people to keep informed. 
It is perhaps a tall order to expect Orbitz to maintain a stellar record in its quest to ferret out flight problems before they bring grief to customers. It appears an even taller order when one recalls that the industry that spawned Orbitz is hardly famous for customer service. But Orbitz has pledged to differentiate itself on these grounds, and industry observers -- and consumers -- will likely hold the company to it. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Claudia Newell) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AIR FARES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (77%); PRICE FIXING (76%); WEB SITES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); TRAVEL AGENTS (57%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (90%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (56%) ORBITZ; AMERICAN AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES; DELTA AIR LINES; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: OWW (NYSE) (90%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (90%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



444 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: THE RIGHT THING; 
A Blame Game Hurts Both Ford and Firestone

BYLINE:  By JEFFREY L. SEGLIN; Jeffrey L. Seglin teaches at Emerson College in Boston and is the author of "The Good, the Bad, and Your Business" (John Wiley & Sons). His column on business ethics appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: righthng@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
EARLY on the morning of May 21, senior Ford Motor executives met with Bridgestone/Firestone officials at Firestone's headquarters in Nashville. Since the recall of 6.5 million Firestone tires on Ford Explorers in August, after tire blowouts and vehicle rollovers, Ford had been analyzing the safety of the roughly 13 million Wilderness AT tires, made by Firestone, that were still in use on Explorers and Ford trucks. "We wanted to get into a discussion at that time" about tire safety, said Ken Zino, a Ford spokesman.
 Instead, John T. Lampe, the chief executive of Firestone, handed over a letter severing his company's 95-year-old link to Ford. The next day, Ford announced that it would replace those 13 million Firestone tires. "We did not have confidence in the tire," Mr. Zino said. 
 Firestone read Ford's motives differently. "Ford steadfastly refused to look at the vehicle," said Jill Bratina, a Firestone spokeswoman. "We told them our concerns, asked them again to please look at the vehicle. They said no."
Sorting out the purpose of all this public blaming isn't easy. In a recent survey of 130 of its members, the Council of Public Relations Firms found that 85 percent believed that Ford and Firestone could have avoided the damage to their credibility and consumer confidence if they had worked together rather than attacking each other publicly.
And from a legal standpoint -- lawsuits are among each company's worries -- the pointing of fingers at the supplier and then back at the manufacturer can be a mistake. 
"It's counterintuitive," said John D. Winter, a product liability lawyer with Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Tyler in Manhattan. When several defendants are involved in cases dealing with accusations of product liability, he added, "it's usually a 'united we stand, divided we fall' approach."
After blaming a product's supplier, a manufacturer will have to convince a jury that it stopped using the product as soon as it found problems. 
From the public airing that Ford and Firestone have given their brawl, it would be too simple to conclude that blaming is always bad. Peter A. French, director of the Lincoln Center for Applied Ethics at Arizona State University and author of "The Virtues of Vengeance" (University Press of Kansas), calls it "an act of moral courage."
"The easier thing to do is to say, 'Oh well, you know these things happen, too bad, live with it,' " he added. "The more difficult thing is to say, 'No these things happen because people did something inappropriate -- something morally wrong, something wrong, period.' And they need to be called to task for that. They need to take the responsibility and act appropriately."
Indeed, in the Ford-Firestone fight, both companies have staked moral motives for their actions. "People will know that we took a moral and ethical stand," Mr. Lampe said after the breakup. In response, Ford offered its own, more succinct, moral thrust. "These are our customers and we will protect them," Mr. Zino said.
But when each company vigorously fixes blame on the other, and when each cites a higher ground, it becomes nearly impossible to decide whose claims to give more credence. Even in appearing to take some responsibility, each player casts more doubt on the other than it does on itself. "We have taken responsibility for the tires that had the problems last year," Ms. Bratina said. "For the past 10 months they have been trying to divert attention from their vehicle onto on our tires. We hoped that Ford would take responsibility for their part of this."
At Ford, Mr. Zino had his own take. "Our customers are tired of us squabbling with a supplier," he said. "We sold them the vehicle. We will replace these tires."
THE real ethical lesson here is not that blaming is bad or good. Instead, the lesson is found in what happens when companies fail to work together to solve a problem after the marriage of their products. In the letter to Jacques Nasser, Ford's chief executive, in which he ended the relationship, Mr. Lampe wrote, "Business relationships, like personal ones, are built upon trust and mutual respect."
Ms. Bratina elaborated, "At this point in time, that trust has been damaged to a point that we can't continue working together."
When responsibility for a problem is not shared by companies, trust is lost not only between them, but also with their customers. After all, why should customers trust the statements of either company on safety issues when each has made it abundantly clear that it cannot even trust the other? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); TIRES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ETHICS (86%); BUSINESS TORTS (86%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (78%); BUSINESS ETHICS (78%); PRODUCT RECALLS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (70%); JURY TRIALS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); LITIGATION (64%) TIRES; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; AUTOMOBILES; ETHICS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

COMPANY: BRIDGESTONE CORP (98%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); PATTERSON BELKNAP WEBB & TYLER LLP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; BRIDGESTONE CORP 

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (98%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (98%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: SEGLIN, JEFFREY L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



445 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Spain and Argentina Find Themselves in Tangle Over Airline 

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, June 16 

 BODY:
Few countries in the world have closer relationships than Argentina has with its motherland, Spain. 
 But that did not stop the sparks from flying between Buenos Aires and Madrid this week as a Spanish holding company that controls Aerolineas Argentinas threatened to ground the long struggling airline once and for all. 
 Employees of Aerolineas Argentinas obstructed passengers trying to take Iberia flights at the Buenos Aires international airport in retaliation, even rolling an aircraft across a runway and clashing with the police. Scores of Iberia passengers, including a woman carrying 7-month-old twins, were forced to hike a mile to get around one blockade. 
Members of Argentina's Congress took to the stump in nationalist outrage, charging that Spain had stripped the formerly state-owned Argentine airline of its assets in a throwback to colonial days. And a union confederation began organizing a boycott of Spanish companies. 
The anger grew so fierce that senior Spanish officials publicly called for calm. Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar said he regretted that "there are people stirring anti-Spanish sentiment." Mr. Aznar reminded Argentines that Spain "has contributed in a very sympathetic way" to Argentina's well-being over the last decade as Spanish companies invested more than $30 billion in the economy. 
But as the deep recession in Argentina approaches its fourth year, popular resentment over a decade of economic policies that have failed to expand the middle class has enveloped Spain in a backlash. 
When Carlos Saul Menem, Argentina's president at the time, sold off most of the state's enterprises in the 1990's, Spanish companies bought the flagship airline, banks, oil company and telephone company. Now many of the former Argentine officials involved in those deals are facing allegations that they took kickbacks, while the Spanish owners are blamed for the bad service and high prices of their new Argentine operations. 
Aerolineas Argentinas, a majority share of which was bought by Iberia in 1990 before the Spanish airline was itself privatized, is widely criticized here and around South America for its high fares and indifferent service. 
Critics note that the airline owned 29 aircraft and had no debt a decade ago; now it leases almost its entire fleet and loses an estimated $1 million a day. While the airline had the advantage of highly subsidized fuel pumped by the state oil company before the two companies were privatized, passengers look back at those days with nostalgia.
Aerolineas Argentinas, which still paints its aircraft in the powder blue and white colors of the Argentine flag, became a nationalist cause after the Spanish holding company, Sepi, suspended routes to New York, Miami, Los Angeles, Auckland, Sydney, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro on June 7. Spanish executives demanded that Aerolineas Argentinas's seven unions agree to a rescue plan that included wage cuts between 6 and 20 percent. Two of the unions have refused to go along; in response Sepi said it could be forced to end payments on the airline's $930 million debt. Nearly 7,000 jobs are at stake at a time when 15 percent of the Argentine work force is unemployed.
In a television interview, the Spanish foreign minister, Josep Pique, criticized the Argentine unions for asking investors "to keep plowing in money indefinitely" while they refused to adapt to new market conditions. He said he hoped the struggle between the unions and the holding company would not "end up clouding relations between the two countries." 
The Argentine government dispatched its infrastructure minister, Carlos Bastos, to Madrid to find a way to keep the airline running long enough to find another buyer, to save jobs and sustain the vital tourism industry. Argentine officials spoke optimistically about the outcome of Mr. Bastos's trip, and there were signs that Lan Chile, the profitable Chilean airline, might consider snapping up much if not all of the operations of Aerolineas Argentinas. 
But Pedro Ferreras, the leader of Sepi, said his company might have to file for protection from creditors, to avoid bankruptcy on the Aerolineas Argentinas debt as early as next Thursday, which means that the airline could face a hard landing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Aerolineas Argentinas's planes sitting at an airport near Buenos Aires; lack of agreement on wage cuts has threatened the airline's existence. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); AIRPORTS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); BOYCOTTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RECESSION (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (53%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: AEROLINEAS ARGENTINAS (90%); BANKS OIL CO (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AEROLINEAS ARGENTINAS 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%)

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (94%); MADRID, SPAIN (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (99%); SPAIN (94%); BRAZIL (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) SPAIN; ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



446 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 7097 words

HEADLINE: Egypt on Trial 

BYLINE:  By Mary Anne Weaver; Mary Anne Weaver is author of "A Portrait of Egypt: A Journey Through the World of Militant Islam." She is an Alicia Patterson fellow for 2001.

 BODY:
LATE ONE EVENING LAST SUMMER, Saad Eddin Ibrahim, a prominent Egyptian-American civil rights advocate and one of the Arab world's leading social scientists, was working in his study - a spacious one, on a quiet, tree-lined street in the suburb of Maadi, one of Cairo's most fashionable neighborhoods. The room was bursting with books, stacks of papers, family photographs and half-finished cups of tea. On that particular evening, the 61-year-old professor of sociology was alone in the house: his American-born wife, Barbara, was out of town; his son, Amir, was out with friends; and his daughter, Randa, was at her own home with her husband and Saad Eddin's second, recently born grandchild. It seemed unusually quiet, the professor thought to himself. Evening prayers had recently ended at the adjacent Victory College mosque, and the worshipers had left. With their departure, all noise, all sounds, seemed to have come to an end. 
 A partly bald and bearded man of medium height and build, and an outspoken proponent of his views, he ensconced himself on the sofa and began to read. He may have fallen asleep, or simply been deep in thought; he can't quite recall. Whichever it was, he gradually became aware of a persistent drumlike pounding on his front door. Sleepily, he made his way down to the entrance foyer, opened the door and was abruptly jolted completely awake. A dozen armed guards from State Security Investigation, or S.S.I., stormed into the house, as 40 or so others cordoned it off. Some raided his study and eventually carted off scores of boxes of files and books, his computer - and the family safe. Others surrounded him. "Come with us," one of them said. "Come with us. You're under arrest." 
 "I looked out of the door," Saad Eddin said a few weeks ago, as we sat in the open-air cafe of my Cairo hotel one late April afternoon. "It was like the siege of Stalingrad. Armored cars surrounded the house. Guards were posted everywhere. Why had so many people come to arrest one harmless intellectual? Why didn't they just make a phone call? I would have come."
It was a little before midnight when Saad Eddin Ibrahim was bundled into an armored car and driven about three miles, high above Cairo, into the Mokattam Hills to the Ibn Khaldun Center for Development Studies. Established by Saad Eddin 12 years before - and named for the great medieval Islamic scholar - the center had emerged as a leading exponent of democratic reform and intellectual freedom in the Arab world.
As the armored car continued to climb the sinuous mountain road, Saad Eddin glanced out of the window. "I could see the whole motorcade," he said. "There were at least 10 cars ahead of me and another 10 behind: bright lights in the darkness. There are so many layers, so many conflicting images, in all of this, and it was that night that I first saw the contrast, the physical part - two starkly different images, one romantic, one harsh. Caravans in the desert, I thought, as I looked at the twinkling lights, or the carts of death, during the French Revolution, taking their victims to the guillotine."
It was June 30, the last day of the fiscal year, and Nadia Abdel Nour, the financial manager of the Ibn Khaldun Center, had worked late that night supervising the closing of the books. A genteel, attractive woman of 50 or so, with luminous dark eyes, she is a Sudanese refugee and the sole support of her large refugee family. At around 8 p.m., as she waited at a nearby bus stop, her neatly ordered world began to fall apart.
"They grabbed me from behind, blindfolded me, threw a bag over my head," she later said. She had no idea who they were. She was terrified. "I thought I was being kidnapped!" she said with a shudder. 
"When we arrived at Ibn Khaldun, I found her there," Saad Eddin said. "She was outside the center. She was sobbing and shaking. She was still blindfolded. She had no idea where she was, or why."
As Saad Eddin and Nadia Abdel Nour watched in bewilderment, dozens of S.S.I. officers began tearing the Ibn Khaldun Center apart. Others surrounded the building, blocking all access roads. Still others took up positions around it, their automatic assault weapons drawn. Many of their faces were partly concealed by visored helmets, and it was impossible to know who they were.
All across Cairo that evening, lawyers and economists, students and social workers were arrested and taken off to high-security prisons. By the following week, 28 officials and employees of the Ibn Khaldun Center, along with representatives of the League of Egyptian Women Voters, had been swept up. Most remained in prison for two months. During that time, not one of them - not even Saad Eddin Ibrahim - was charged. They were held under Egypt's draconian emergency laws, which President Hosni Mubarak has renewed every three years for the 20 years of his presidency.
It was nearly dawn when Saad Eddin Ibrahim and his 20-car security escort were ushered through the gates of S.S.I. headquarters -- where he was held through the following night. For 14 hours, Saad Eddin was interrogated about his work, his public lectures and his dozen or so books. Interrogators came and went from the windowless spartan room. Some were from the office of the public prosecutor, others from S.S.I. After that ordeal, he was transferred to the high-security section of the Tora prison complex in South Cairo, one of the country's most dreaded detention sites. He would spend six weeks there before being released on bail. 
"My first interrogation ended at about 8 o'clock that night," Saad Eddin said. "It was just twilight when I arrived at Tora Mazra'at. An elderly, white-haired police corporal was sitting at a desk. He peered at me over his half-glasses: 'Dr. Saad Eddin Ibrahim?' 
"I thought he was reading a newspaper, but it was too early for that, and then he said: 'I'm Ali Hamdan. I was a private here 20 years ago, when you came to do research. It was a long time ago.' He paused for a moment and then he asked, 'What has happened to the world?'
"I saw the human face of Egypt that night in this old man," Saad Eddin said. "Previously, I had seen the brutal face of the state. There have been so many faces of Egypt in all of this, so many threads. There I stood in handcuffs, and I had to comfort this old man."
Ali Hamdan composed himself and began leafing through a dusty, frayed ledger book. "I'm sorry, Dr. Ibrahim," he finally said. "We are simply full. We've got a full house, after the arrest of the followers of Sheikha Manal." (The Sheikha, a Cairo housewife, had recently been accused of heresy.) The old man continued going up and down his list: Gama'a al-Islamiya, al-Jihad, the Muslim Brotherhood. It was a veritable who's who of Egypt's Islamist groups.
After a good deal of telephoning - it was the weekend, and no one was picking up - Ali Hamdan finally found someone, who found someone else, who agreed that, since according to the prosecutor's order, Saad Eddin was to be kept in solitary confinement, he should be dispatched to the prison's hospital ward. It was empty, and on that Saturday night in Cairo, everything else was full.
I HAD SEEN Saad Eddin Ibrahim in many personas over the years: as my professor of sociology at the American University of Cairo in the late 1970's; as a friend; as a consultant to the United Nations and the World Bank; as an irascible interlocutor, who favored silk ascots and ties, pounding his fist on a lectern at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York or, with equal skill, puncturing the arguments of a trembling government official on television screens across the Arab world. And yet, it was not until a sunny morning in the late days of April this year, with his trial under way, that I had ever imagined seeing him sitting inside a cage.
In fact, it was the same cage - or perhaps a similar one - in the same High Security Court where the Islamist assassins of the previous Egyptian president, Anwar Sadat, had been tried and sent to their executioners some 20 years before. The symbolism was not lost on any of us sitting in the court. It was that assassination that had led a young Hosni Mubarak, freshly installed as president and brandishing his emergency laws, to establish not only these High Security Courts - against which there is no appeal - but also Emergency Courts and Special Military Courts. All of these have been decried over the years by human rights groups as contrary to all precepts of international law.
In the 1990's, the courts played a crucial role in Mubarak's successful campaign to crush a rebellion by Islamic militants. Thousands of Islamists, alleged Islamists and would-be Islamists were summarily arrested under emergency law and paraded in and out of these courts and their cages, and they continue to be. Even today, between 15,000 and 16,000 Islamists -- not all of them militants -- remain in prison. Many have never been charged or tried. Under Mubarak's emergency laws, his regime is not even obligated to release their names. 
As long as the courts were employed -- ostensibly at least -- against Islamic militants, the West was more than happy to look the other way. But with the arrest and trial of Saad Eddin, Egypt's increasingly powerful security services seemed to have widened their brief, dangerously. For this was the first time, at least that anyone could recall, that a liberal was being tried by one of Mubarak's extraordinary courts. And he was not only a liberal but also the West's favorite Arab intellectual and his country's most prominent human rights and democracy advocate, arguing passionately for an opening to democracy, civil rights and the rights of Egypt's Christian Copts, a minority suffering frequent discrimination. And he had even served occasionally as an adviser to the Egyptian president himself. 
THE ABSURDITY OF THE cage in which Saad Eddin Ibrahim now sat -- a giant metal one along a wall of the room, with planks of wood haphazardly criss-crossing its top, in which the defendants were locked while the court was in session -- was, in a sense, a metaphor for his trial. There he was forced to defend his innocence against a sweeping indictment that neither he nor his lawyers were fully able to comprehend. (It appeared to be contrary to at least two Egyptian laws and legal precedent.) 
For months on end, he listened in pained silence to accusers he did not know, and who had never read his books, but who charged nevertheless that he had "tarnished" Egypt's image abroad. He looked on in disbelief as he was accosted with charges of financial impropriety that were based exclusively on the testimony of one of his associates, who later recanted everything he said and ultimately sat with Saad Eddin inside the metal cage, as a co-defendant.
When the state finally presented its case, it charged Saad Eddin not only with defaming Egypt but also with accepting money from abroad without government approval, embezzling donated funds and conspiring to bribe officials from government-controlled television and radio. (Ultimately, everyone would be acquitted of the bribery charge, after those named as the would-be recipients testified that not only did they not know Saad Eddin but also that most of them didn't even work for state radio or television.)
The defamation count stemmed from the professor's writings and lectures on clashes between Egypt's majority Muslims and the Copts and on his findings of voting irregularities in 88 constituencies during parliamentary elections in 1995. (It is worth noting that eight days after Saad Eddin's arrest, the Supreme Constitutional Court declared the entire Parliament invalid because of electoral irregularities, and that other writers had published reports on discrimination against the Copts without being brought before Mubarak's courts.) 
The charge of accepting money from abroad without the government's permission was rooted in a $250,000 grant from the European Commission to, in part, produce a documentary film on voter registration and education and on the importance of participating in last autumn's poll. That charge was in turn grounded in a 1992 military decree that had been hastily promulgated to prevent Islamist organizations from providing assistance to victims of a devastating Cairo earthquake. 
The issue of the constitutionality of that law is now pending before the courts. But it hardly seemed germane to Saad Eddin's trial, since the law applied only to nongovernmental organizations and charitable groups, not to a research center, like Ibn Khaldun, that had long been registered (and paid taxes) as a civil company.
The final charge, of embezzling funds, seemed particularly silly, since the European Union had insisted all along that the money - which, like all such grants, had been subjected to routine audit - had been properly spent.
If the charges against Saad Eddin seemed flimsy and politically contrived, the unseemly haste with which his judges arrived at their verdict was even more remarkable. There was little pretense of deliberation by the three dark-suited men in a case that involved thousands of pages of documentation and would normally have commanded weeks, if not months, of consideration.
On May 21, 90 minutes after the defense completed its summation and before the defense team had even finished turning over its evidence, the court found Saad Eddin guilty on three of the four charges. He was sentenced to seven years at hard labor, despite his age and his health, which had been deteriorating for some time. Nadia Abdel Nour received two years and was sent to a women's criminal prison. 
The other 26 defendants, in what became known as the Ibn Khaldun trial, were given prison sentences of one to five years. (Twenty of these were suspended.) Barring a presidential reprieve or an appeal on procedural grounds, Saad Eddin and his jailed colleagues have limited legal recourse; there is no appealing the substance of a decision delivered by a High Security Court.
Within hours of the verdict, there were shouts of protest from around the world: from human rights organizations - including Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, Freedom House and International PEN - the European Union and the United Nations. In meeting after meeting, foreign diplomats have protested to the Egyptian President. 
In the United States, the verdict was condemned by the State Department and by the editorial boards of major newspapers, which raised the issue of Egypt's $2 billion annual stipend from Washington. In Congress, Representative Tom Lantos, a Democrat from California and the co-chairman of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus, circulated a petition in early June calling for President Mubarak to "overturn this miscarriage of justice." 
As the professor was led out of the courtroom and returned to Tora prison late that Monday afternoon, it remained unclear precisely why the trial had even taken place. Those of us who attended it -- journalists and foreign diplomats, human rights monitors, intellectuals, lawyers, family and friends -- had received scant edification from the indictment (which had been cobbled together hastily less than two months before the trial began), from the state prosecutors or from Hosni Mubarak's opaque High Security bench. 
"The reason that Saad Eddin is in that courtroom has nothing to do with what's on the charge sheet," one Western diplomat remarked to me during the trial. "If the purpose of this exercise is to discredit Saad, Mubarak has achieved his ultimate objective: a chastened Saad Eddin Ibrahim in a demoralized civil society." 
It was clear that Saad Eddin had crossed a "red line," but what was it? And what had so provoked the 73-year-old Mubarak that he would risk international censure and opprobrium to teach a lesson to one influential but essentially powerless intellectual? Although it is apparent that the professor's trial was meant to serve as a warning to others, it is less clear who the president's real targets were and why he was seemingly so determined to make a point.
A FORMER COMMANDER OF THE EGYPTIAN AIR Force, Hosni Mubarak is now the longest serving president in his country's history, having presented himself to the voters for six-year terms an unprecedented four times. In these referendums -- in which no opposition candidates are permitted to stand and voters have the choice of voting yes or no -- he has garnered, on average, 96 percent of the vote.
When he assumed office, the day after Sadat's assassination, in 1981, Mubarak spoke of limited presidential terms, of opening Egypt to democracy, of his own need for outside help and advice and of the imperative to reform the country's stagnant economy - nearly 70 percent of which was dominated by bloated and inefficient public sector industries. 
Mindful of Egypt's status as the second leading recipient of United States aid, after Israel, Mubarak reaffirmed his country's commitment to the 1979 peace treaty with Israel and set to work behind the scenes as a mediator in the continuing quest for Middle East peace. Later, he more than anyone else gave legitimacy to the United States-led coalition in the Persian Gulf war. 
Over the years, however, and partly in response to the threat posed by Islamic militants, he began to rescind the limited freedoms he had initially doled out. More recently, vital foreign investment has fallen sharply while the breakdown in the peace process has raised the uncomfortable issue of Egypt's close ties to the country that is Israel's largest and most vocal supporter. In response, his critics say, Mubarak has gravitated more to his security and intelligence services, and grown increasingly out of touch, surrounding himself with sycophants and old military friends. 
Whether the president will utimately release Saad Eddin from prison, no one can say. Clearly, though, the Saad Eddin affair is entering a new phase. It is now, in a sense, Hosni Mubarak and his army-backed regime that are on trial, in western capitals and in the court of international public opinion. Yet, even though Washington is working quietly behind the scenes, it is hardly likely to sacrifice its second most important strategic partner in the Middle East to rescue one prominent intellectual from injustice. But the case does shine an uncomfortable spotlight not only on the heavy-handed tactics of a close ally but also, ultimately, on the Mubarak regime's drift from its early promises of democracy and economic reform to a status-quo autocracy concerned mostly with maintaining its grip on power. 
The lavish infusion of American aid - which at nearly $50 billion since 1979 follows only tourism as Egypt's leading source of foreign exchange - was meant to buy political stability and, perhaps, at least a token of democracy in a sea of repressive regimes. Yet now, an Egyptian-American intellectual whose greatest crime seemed to be his passionate defense of democracy and civil rights, is languishing in one of Egypt's most notorious high-security prisons.
The Saad Eddin Ibrahim I've known over the years is bright and sarcastic, funny and clear, clever and vastly intelligent - a man with powerful friends and powerful enemies whose critics were not amused by what they considered to be his occasional intellectual arrogance. He could be demanding, of his students and his fellow intellectuals. On a trip I made to Egypt in 1998 to research my book, he had insisted that I read a short story called "The Complaints of the Peasant." Peering at me across his cluttered desk at the Ibn Khaldun Center, he told me, somewhat dismissively, I thought, since I had lived in Cairo for three years, "You will never understand Egypt otherwise." It was typical of Saad Eddin. The story had been published, so to speak, on papyrus, in hieroglyphics, some 4,000 years before.
One afternoon while the trial was still in progress, I went with Saad Eddin and some others for a late lunch at a villa in a new development in the midst of the desert. Before arriving in Cairo, I hadn't seen him since 1999, and he had aged visibly, considerably more than two years. His left hand was unsteady, and he walked with a limp. He suffers from a nervous-system disorder, which is still not fully diagnosed. It affects his balance, and he has progressive numbness in his right hand - his writing hand.
As we sped along the highway, I tried to recall all the conflicting opinions I had heard about him. That he is too ambitious, too impulsive, too complex. Or, conversely, that he is a genuinely brilliant social scientist with a message that must be heard. "His power is in his personality as much as in his pen," one of his closest friends said. "He is either the bravest or the most foolish man I've ever met."
Saad Eddin Ibrahim is as quixotic as his country is sometimes anomalous and always complex. He is part Egyptian fellaheen, or son of the soil, an intellectual aristocrat born into a poor farming family. And he is a product of America in the 60's, with a well-stocked mind full of political literature, socialism and Marxism, Black Power and marches against the Vietnam War. He is also part Egyptian establishment, a tenured professor at the American University of Cairo and, until recently, a familiar figure in the corridors of power. A controversial figure who moved with calm assurance through the worlds of militants and mullahs, he was equally at home with Western scholars, Islamic assassins and Egypt's first family.
The American University of Cairo is a rarefied place, catering to the children of Egypt's political and business elite. And it was there, in the late 1970's, that Saad Eddin was first introduced to the Mubarak family. Suzanne, the wife of Mubarak, then vice president, was a student of his (as were the couple's two sons in later years). It was during that period as well that Saad Eddin became the first Egyptian academic to do in-depth research on the country's militant Islamist groups. (He became convinced that the best way to deal with the radicals was to marginalize them by legalizing more moderate groups, like the Muslim Brotherhood, and bringing them into the political arena). In 198l, when Mubarak became president, Suzanne Mubarak called on two of her former professors as advisers. One was Saad. "His relationship with the first lady was always close," one of Mubarak's advisers said. "But he became too bold with the president. He actually told him that it was time to open the country up: to hold elections, bring in democracy." He thought for a moment, and then he said, "That was the end of Saad." 
The story is often told about a meeting that Mubarak held with a group of intellectuals more than five years ago. When the president arrived late, Saad Eddin - to the astonishment of everyone in the room - demanded to know why he had been kept waiting. 
When we reached our lunching spot, a sprawling villa owned by an immensely wealthy businessman in what is called New Cairo, we dispersed into various rooms or onto the terrace, which overhung an enormous swimming pool. The villa, and the development of which it was a part, rose from the barrenness of the surrounding desert almost like a sphinx.
As we sat on the terrace, I asked Saad Eddin what he remembered most about the investigation leading to his trial, which prosecutors appeared to be making up as they went along. He reflected a moment, tilting his face as he rested his chin on his hand. Then he smiled: "The totally chaotic nature of it. It went on for over six weeks. Things were dropped in and dropped out. Altogether, there were 30 charges, 26 of which came and went. Each time we rebutted them, they went back to the Ibn Khaldun Center and tore it upside down. Then they came back with new charges, and it started all over again."
He thought for a moment and said angrily: "What was not chaotic was the simultaneous, highly orchestrated campaign against me in the government press. We've compiled four volumes, four volumes of 300 pages each - that's 1,200 pages of slander against me. They have accused me of everything except doing drugs or being a homosexual. The government used all of its organs of destruction against me." He fell silent for a moment and then shook his head as though all of this must be happening to someone other than him.
"There are so many layers, so many dimensions in all of this," he continued, as the sun began to set over the desert. "How many Egyptian intellectuals feel angry, but impotent? They are torn between expressing themselves openly and being vulnerable to the state." It was the only time I heard bitterness in his voice, for several of his fellow intellectuals had forsaken him since his trial began.
IT IS HARD TO IMAGINE SAAD EDDIN IBRAHIM in Mansura, the center of Egypt's cotton trade, where he was born in 1938. Set in the heart of the lush Nile Delta, it was once, under British rule, an elegant city of villas and gardens. It is now a distinctly provincial town, a chaotic mix of pungent bazaar, cement factories and cement public parks. I had passed through it many times over the years and on its outskirts had watched water buffalo raise the Nile's precious water by turning a crude wooden lift, as they have done for thousands of years. Blindered, they moved in endless circles, as though in a trance. 
Saad Eddin's father, Muhammad, managed the family farm and was often called upon to arbitrate village disputes. His mother, Gowhara, though not educated herself, was fiercely determined that her children, including her daughters, go to school - and they did. The road Saad Eddin traveled out of Mansura, in 1956, to Cairo University, was the same road that had been traveled a decade earlier by Hosni Mubarak, then a young air force recruit from a not-so-distant dusty village.
In 1962, at the age of 23, Saad Eddin arrived in the United States on an Egyptian government scholarship. He remained for 13 years - receiving his master's from the University of California at Los Angeles, his Ph.D. from the University of Washington and his American citizenship. Teaching was, and is, a passion of his, and he taught political sociology at U.C.L.A. and Washington, and also at a joint campus of Purdue University and DePauw. 
It was at DePauw, at a Black Power meeting, that he met his future wife, Barbara. Their courtship consisted, to a large extent, of traveling to antiwar rallies and teach-ins across the Midwest. (Barbara Ibrahim is now the regional director for the New York-based Population Council in West Asia and North Africa.)
Never a private or timid man about his views, Saad Eddin, during his American years, was a student activist, a bit of a Fabian socialist and a passionate follower of Egypt's mercurial leader Gamal Abdel Nasser. But he was devastated when Nasser led his country to humiliating defeat by Israel in the June 1967 Six-Day War. And he had been bewildered and angry the previous year, when Nasser had placed him on a political black list for critical remarks issued by the North American branch of the Arab Students' Association, which Saad Eddin headed. 
Not only did Nasser strip the young Saad Eddin of his Egyptian passport and government-sponsored scholarship, but he also sequestered the family's scant property. (It was only in 1974 that Nasser's successor, Sadat, restored Saad Eddin's passport and personally invited him to return home.)
The intervening years have done little, if anything, to dull his stinging critiques, and his critics have multiplied. If his views on democracy and human rights have outraged Hosni Mubarak's sclerotic regime, his advocacy of an end to discrimination against the Copts has not only angered the government but also vastly irritated the country's Islamic militants. And his calls for a genuine normalization of relations between Egypt and Israel - after more than 20 years of a decidedly cold peace - had produced furious protests from many among Egypt's intellectual elite. They, like Hosni Mubarak himself, have steadfastly refused all invitations over the years to visit the Jewish state (with the lone exception of Yitzhak Rabin's funeral, which Mubarak attended). 
"Saad has always been incomprehensible to so many people here," I was told by Ambassador Hussein Amin, a fellow intellectual and close friend of Saad Eddin's. "Some of it, of course, is professional jealousy. He has been such a success, materially and otherwise. Whenever there's a seminar in Europe or the States, he's consulted on whom to invite. He's altogether a wonderful man. But many intellectuals are wary, suspicious of him. They simply cannot comprehend why he says what he says."
A month or so before his arrest, Saad Eddin had participated in two seminars that addressed a particularly horrific slaughter in the Upper Egyptian village of el Kusheh on New Year's Eve last year in which 21 Copts were killed, execution-style, by Muslim villagers. Immediately thereafter, he began receiving death threats. They may have - but probably did not - come from Islamic militants. On three previous occasions, in 1992, 1994 and early 1999, when the country's intellectuals found themselves trapped in a no man's land between the Islamic militants and the government, Saad Eddin was offered security protection by the state. But he had turned the offers down. 
"Now, I had actually been threatened," he told me one afternoon during a break in the trial. "So, I went off to see the head of State Security. Now I wanted protection, but they turned me down." The American University of Cairo later provided him with a guard.
"I think I sensed that afternoon that something was amiss," Saad Eddin went on. "During six weeks in prison, you have time to evaluate all your past sins, and I kept asking myself: What did I do? What did I say to the head of State Security that afternoon? He had mentioned my research on the elections and the Copts, and then he remarked, 'Why do you persist?' I replied, 'If a social scientist doesn't investigate the problems of his society, what good is he?' 
"The chief of security thought about this for a moment, and then he said: 'We will not protect you until you get off these hot topics. We don't want to appear to be associated with your views."'
"Fine," I replied. "I'd rather be killed than silenced. One month later, they tried to kill me, metaphorically."
Three weeks after our meeting, the High Security Court handed down its verdict. "This is politically motivated, and the sentence is politically dictated," Saad Eddin Ibrahim told The Associated Press on his cellular phone as he was being led out of the court by a dozen or so armed guards. "It is a struggle, and it will go on. I do not regret anything I stood for."
Yet as Saad Eddin was returned to jail, there were still more questions than answers in Cairo, not unlike the weeks in April when I was there. Two of the four charges against him concerned foreign financing - curious, I thought, in a country that survives on foreign aid. But as one European Union diplomat remarked to me: "This trial is about political intimidation, not about fraud. If the regime thought that fraud was involved, they should have sent tax inspectors to the Ibn Khaldun Center, not S.S.I. thugs. The line that Saad Eddin crossed has never been defined." 
Why Saad Eddin? Many close observers think the precipitant event was his appearance last June on the Rome-based satellite station, Orbit. It was a live broadcast of the funeral of the Syrian president, Hafez al-Assad. Saad Eddin was the main commentator, describing the events and responding to viwers who called in with questions or observations. The coverage was scheduled for 3 hours, but it lasted 12, during which Saad Eddin had to continue talking. This "is always bad for Saad," according to one of his friends. "He doesn't mean to be provocative. He just opens his mouth and he is."
In time, the discussion turned to the elevation to the presidency of Assad's son, Bashar, and the Arab world's bizarre system of Republican dynasties. "Yes," Saad Eddin told the audience, "it has happened in Syria, and most likely it will happen in Iraq, in Yemen, in Libya." 
"But what about Egypt?" a caller asked.
The professor replied that Egypt was not applicable, because Mubarak himself had publicly denied that he was grooming his younger son, Gamal, as his heir - a denial that few Egyptians believed. 
"But even though Mubarak denied it, it could still happen, couldn't it?" the caller persisted. 
"The guy was really getting on my nerves," Saad Eddin said later. "I thought to myself, He never quits."
And thus, the professor scripted a scenario in which members of the ruling National Democratic Party would march to the Presidential Palace and demand that Mubarak anoint his son. The President would resist and resist, but ultimately he would concede to public pressure.
When Mubarak saw the tape, he was furious. Seventeen days later, his security apparatus stormed into Saad Eddin Ibrahim's home. 
"I don't doubt that the Orbit commentary was the last straw," one Western ambassador said to me. "There are three power centers in Egypt which had it in for Saad: the intelligence service, which disdained his reporting on the Copts; the ruling party, which was outraged by his documentation of electoral fraud; and the information people, who simply loathed everything he did. But Saad had a lot of powerful friends. Ministers and former ministers were on his board. Mrs. Mubarak was a friend. And as long as those friends remained there for him, and he stayed within certain bounds, the three power centers couldn't touch him. But in a country like this, talking about the president's family simply is not done. And I also think the family felt a personal element of betrayal."
The question of Mubarak's successor is a particularly delicate one, all the more so as it has remained unanswered for 20 years. The president's problem has always been whether to appoint a civilian or a military man. In recent years, the question has become even more pronounced, as old-style totalitarian leaders in the Arab world have given way to a new generation of Western-educated technocrats -- who are also their sons. But for Egypt's military establishment, which has grown accustomed, over five decades, to its role as the country's final arbiter of power, the idea of a dynastic succession is untenable.
It was a matter of some import, then, when a year or so ago, Mubarak began grooming his 37-year-old son, Gamal, an investment banker who had lived in London and who had frequently done business in the United States. Gamal was given a senior post in the ruling National Democratic Party, began accompanying the president abroad and started to attend cabinet meetings. The country's powerful businessmen, the only new element on Egypt's otherwise dormant political scene, were Gamal's most influential constituency. 
The Orbit commentary was not the first time that Saad Eddin had tackled the issue of Republican dynasties. He had written a sarcastic article about them earlier for Al-Majala, a Saudi magazine. But few of those who mattered in Mubarak's world read Al-Majala, yet everyone watched Orbit TV - including the leaders of the Middle East, who had marched solemnly with the president to Assad's burial ground, and, even more important, the leaders of Egypt's 300,000-man army.
BY JUNE 21, Justice Muhammad Shalabi, who presided over Saad Eddin Ibrahim's trial, must justify, in writing, why he and his two colleagues on the bench arrived at the verdict they did. The defense lawyers then have 60 days to file an appeal, which they certainly will do, to the Court of Cassation, the country's highest court. But the appeal can be made only on procedural grounds. On the basis of one of his military decrees, however, Mubarak may override a decision of a High Security Court by granting an amnesty.
I couldn't help wondering how Mubarak was reacting to the growing furor caused by the verdict in Saad Eddin's trial. For the Egyptian president is a man of more than average vanity who, over the years, has reacted negatively to criticism. His temper is also legendary. During the weeks that Saad Eddin was being held in prison without charge, Mubarak had spurted out to a string of foreign ambassadors who had come to protest: Why is everyone so concerned about this stupid man?
The answer, of course, is that the arrest and trial forced Western governments - and Washington in particular - to acknowledge certain realities about Egypt that they had long and conveniently overlooked. The trials in which defense lawyers have limited, if any, access to prosecutorial documents. The arrests at gunpoint in the middle of the night. The indefinite imprisonments without charge (or sometimes even trial). The almost total absence of legal niceties like search warrants or indictments. All of this had been happening in Mubarak's Egypt for nearly 20 years. Yet now, with the world watching, it had happened to his country's most prominent intellectual, and an American citizen on top of that. 
This is not to say that Mubarak's regime does not tolerate any dissent. Egypt's normal system of justice continues to function. And it is difficult to imagine what could have been more embarrassing to Mubarak and his regime than when the Supreme Constitutional Court ruled that Egypt's entire rubber-stamp parliament was illegal, because of electoral irregularities. 
Mubarak's apparent insensitivity to international opinion can be attributed in part to the circumstances he faced in the months leading up to Saad Eddin's arrest. His privatization process, once a proud symbol of Egypt's commitment to economic reform and modernization, had been largely on hold for two years, upsetting the country's newly emergent, and powerful, business community. The economy had suffered a sudden and serious slump. 
His security forces, concerned about the income inequalities that were expanding along with reform, were preaching caution. Their major concern was to avoid a repeat of 1977 and 1986, when tens of thousands of angry rioters took to the streets and presented Mubarak (and Anwar Sadat before him) with the greatest challenges of their presidencies.
But social tensions were increasing nevertheless. With foreign investment falling and employment stagnating, there have been unpublicized strikes, and peasants are selling their cattle and abandoning their land. And despite the best efforts of the regime to prevent Islamists from voting in last autumn's parliamentary poll, the Muslim Brotherhood -- whose candidates stood as independents, since the party remained banned -- had emerged as the second largest bloc in Parliament. 
Over the years, Mubarak's primary value to the United States has been his role behind the scenes, as an important moderating force in the quest for Middle East peace. Yet as the Clinton administration, in its final months, was frantically trying to forge a peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians, for three weeks, both during and after the most critical phase of the Camp David peace talks, Mubarak was simply left out.
The summer and the fall of last year were not an auspicious time for Mubarak and his regime. And it was not a time in which the Egyptian president, or his security and intelligence establishment, wanted the added irritant of dealing with a person like Saad Eddin.
During the weeks I spent in Cairo in April, there were huge anti-American demonstrations on Egyptian campuses nearly every day as the violence between Israelis and Palestinians reached an intensity that had not been seen for years. And every evening, government-controlled television screens were full of images of Palestinian women and children being killed. 
It was not a time to be seen as being associated with the United States. And Saad Eddin's public image had not been helped when, a month or so before the Palestinian al-Aqsa intifada took hold, Egypt's public prosecutor first leaked to the press that Saad Eddin had been accused of spying for the United States.
The transparently baseless accusation was drawn exclusively from a lecture he had given at a seminar, also attended by a number of Egyptian government officials (including a handful of retired generals), at the U.S. National Defense University in 1994. The accusation was never translated into a formal charge, but it may remain on the books; no one knows except Mubarak and his intelligence service. Saad Eddin's legal team has been pressing for an answer, but even the state prosecutor has told them that he simply does not know if the charge still stands. 
The only insights that anyone has are from comments by Mubarak himself, who in a Newsweek interview in March, while Saad Eddin's trial was under way, said: "You are making a big fuss about this man. Some people consider him as a traitor. ... There was a very serious accusation against him. I told the attorney general, put it aside, because this would make a big story and very high punishment."
Saad Eddin's fate rests, for the moment, in Mubarak's hands, yet in some sense, Mubarak's fate also rests in Saad's, in the court of public opinion abroad. And it was in that court, almost certainly on the day of the funeral of Hafez al-Assad, that the contest between the professor and the president had been joined - a contest with a present and a past, and one that is highly personal for both men.
The last evening I saw Saad Eddin Ibrahim, the khamsin wind had begun, swallowing Cairo in clouds of sand and dust that rolled over the city from the deserts to the south. A hazy patina obscured all outlines and shapes, and nothing was what it appeared to be.
"Have you gotten everything you need?" he asked.
I told him I still was curious about one thing: why did he think his trial had taken place?
He didn't answer immediately, and then he said: "As I told you before, there are so many threads interwoven in all of this: the state versus civil society; the internal versus the external; the personal versus the personal. As much as I try to understand, I may be more enlightened, but still, questions remain. When I was in prison, I could see the state as in an X-ray, not beautified but stripped down. And I saw how fragile the heart of the state is." 
He paused for a moment, and then he said: "In a pyramid, which we perfected 4,000 years ago, when even one stone is removed, the structure faces the danger of collapse. So it is not so much that Saad Eddin Ibrahim is a threat per se, but rather, he is an example that could be emulated, one stone at a time." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laws devised to punish Islamists were used against the liberal intellectual Saad Eddin, left, and his associate Nadia Abdel Nour.; " Why Is everyone so concerned about this stupid man?" President Mubarak has repeatedly asked.; Under Mubarak's draconian emergency laws, Islamists like these being released from Tora prison can be held without being charged and without their names being released. (Norbert Schiller) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (85%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); RELIGION (73%); SUBURBS (72%); ARRESTS (62%); MOUNTAINS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) EGYPT (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



447 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 6-17-01: DOCUMENT; 
The Study of O.

 BODY:
 This past semester, the history department at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign offered a new undergraduate course: "Oprah Winfrey, the Tycoon," developed and taught by Prof. Juliet E.K. Walker. According to Walker's description, the purpose of the interdisciplinary course was "to critically examine and analyze Winfrey's activities in the building of her entertainment empire within the context of the impact of a multiplicity of societal, cultural and economic factors in the post-modern information age propelled by a new technology in the New Economy of Global Capitalism." Fourteen students completed the class. Herewith, a sampling of their term papers, the first forays into the nascent field of Oprah Studies.

"Body Image," by Lauren Gassman
Oprah's fluctuating weight is analogous to the history of women's weight and body image in America, where women have changed drastically over almost every decade. . . . The history of women's body image has been a roller coaster of weight fluctuations and different images of the ideal body. Oprah Winfrey epitomizes the struggle of most women in that every woman is striving to be what society calls "normal." . . . Through Oprah's yo-yo diets, weight fluctuations and weight-loss shows, one thing is for certain: the idea of body normality weighs heavily with Oprah and many other women throughout the world.

"Oprah Winfrey: A Symbol for African-American Philanthropy," by Katharine Dahl-Kearney.
Many celebrities use philanthropy as a way to gain even more publicity and get more fans. However, most of Winfrey's philanthropy is private, and the only times she goes public is when she wants to draw attention to the cause. Philanthropy and self-help are important concepts in the African-American culture and have been around for a long time. . . . During the 18th and 19th centuries, blacks raised money for education, churches, troubled women and children and the general uplift of the African-American culture. These are exactly the same causes Winfrey champions today. Although she was 200 years after the organization of the first African-American Philanthropic society, she still continues many of the same initiatives.

"Image: Is It Everything?" by Aricka Flowers
The extremes of people's thoughts on who Oprah is span from comments by critics indicating that she is the master of the con, along with Phil Donahue, to describing her in terms of the black mammy stereotype: nearly 200 pounds of Mississippi-bred black womanhood, brassy, earthy, street smart and soulful. Seeing that there is such a disparity between the two aforementioned critics' commentaries on Ms. Winfrey, there needs to be some closer analysis of why. . . . It will become apparent that Winfrey's image to most people is the same. The discrepancy comes from their own views and even biases of what exactly the image means or does.

"A Case of: Cristina Saralegui & Oprah Winfrey," by Rolando Argumedo Jr.
Oprah Winfrey is a media giant. She has her hands all over television, the publishing industry and the Internet. But, Oprah does remember where her people have been. . . . With the power and celebrity she possesses, Oprah is free to take on all challenges and new enterprises. The only person who could possibly stop Oprah -- is Oprah Winfrey. This won't happen for a while.

GRAPHIC: Photo: (John Mottern/Corbis Sygma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); RACE & RACISM (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); DIETING (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



448 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1766 words

HEADLINE: State Wants New Station, But Where to Build It? 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD WEIZEL 

 BODY:
THE nine miles of tracks between the Milford and New Haven railroad stations is the longest stretch without a stop along the Metro-North line in Connecticut. Just check the schedule. It is three or four minutes between most stops in the state, but the trip between Milford and New Haven is 15 minutes, climbing to 18 minutes on some trains.
 It is a commuting no man's land that forces people who travel from the towns in between, Orange and West Haven, to make their way to Milford or New Haven to board a train, meaning many have a long commute even before their rail trip begins. 
 For years the State Department of Transportation has considered building a new station somewhere along that corridor. And for years Orange officials have said it should be built there because of the presence of the Bayer Corporation, a major employer, in their town. West Haven officials have said, no, their city is best because of all the people who would use the station to get to work. 
The issue may soon be settled. Later this month, the State Department of Transportation is expected to receive the results of a six-month study that will recommend where to build the $25 million to $30 million station. Although new stations have been built along branches of the New Haven line, a new location hasn't been added in the state on the main line since the route was built about 100 years ago. And while the agency is used to towns on the branch lines telling it to put the new stations somewhere else, this is the first time municipalities have actually fought to get one.
"Frankly, the battle between West Haven and Orange is unique, completely unprecedented," said Harry Harris, the chief of the state agency's public transportation bureau. "Nothing like it -- the fight between a town and city over a proposed train station -- has ever happened before."
For nearly a decade West Haven town officials dreamed the station would be built in their shoreline city of 54,000 that borders New Haven because they believed it would help spur revitalization and development in an economically depressed urban center. They also said it would provide desperately needed transportation for the estimated thousands of people who live within walking distance of the proposed station. The city once had a station, but the transportation department said it was closed in 1929.
For a variety of reasons, including some community opposition and lack of state funds, several proposals in the mid-1990's for a new station were dropped.
Two years ago, Orange, an affluent community of 12,000, came up with a proposal to build the station in that town instead. That station would be built at the doorstep of Bayer, the pharmaceutical company, which is the top single employer and taxpayer in both communities.
Ann Sousa, a senior administrative assistant at Bayer, who commutes more than 30 miles each way from Clinton, wants the station in Orange. She said she is among a group of about 25 Bayer employees who take the train to New Haven and then are taken to work by a company shuttle bus, which takes the workers back to the station after work.
"Every morning and afternoon there's the pressure that you have to catch one of the three shuttle buses or you are going to be stranded at the station in the morning or at work in the late afternoon," said Ms. Sousa. She said she has driven to work, but the commute on Interstate 95 is even more time-consuming.
The same is true for Juliette Carmody, who is an elementary school teacher in Bridgeport and lives on Church Street just a few blocks from the proposed station in West Haven. She now drives to Bridgeport and said what should be a simple 20-minute commute is more often a "nightmarish one to two hours" I-95. She said she has considered taking the train from Milford and New Haven, but that by the time she drove to either one and parked, it would take her even longer.
"We desperately need the station," she said. "We've been hearing about it and waiting 30 years for it and now I can't believe Orange can just come in and take it away from us. I've been driving to work for years, and every year I pray harder and harder for a train station so I don't have to face that awful turnpike drive anymore."
The attempt by Orange to land the station has outraged West Haven leaders and spurred a grass-roots effort to bring the station there, culminating in a 7,500-signature petition drive this year led by Michael Mercuriano, a lifelong resident and local real estate appraiser and broker.
"This would be a mass transit project and the masses are in West Haven where the station would benefit far more people than it would in Orange," said Mr. Mercuriano, who served on the city's Redevelopment Commission for 11 years. "The need is here where you will find the needy, not in Orange where a station would amount to nothing more than corporate welfare for Bayer Corporation."
West Haven Mayor Richard Borer Jr. said "both towns have our strengths and weaknesses," but said more people would be affected if the station were located in his town.
"There's no question in my mind that more people would be helped by a train station here in our city than in Orange," he said. "We envision businesses actually springing up around the station site -- coffee shops, salons, restaurants that will create new jobs. And in West Haven there are people who live near the station who would be able to use it."
In a survey of people who live and work in West Haven that the city conducted in April and May, 90.2 percent of the 1,100 people responding indicated they would likely use a West Haven train station, and 8.5 percent said they would use the station six or more times per week. The survey also found that about 9 percent said they currently take the train in New Haven or Milford.
Orange hasn't conducted a survey. But Mitchell Goldblatt, the town's first selectman, insisted that a station in his town would be the far better site for the region because it would be more accessible, easier and faster to build, and would help get more cars off I-95, which is one of the state's main goals in planning a new station. 
"The Orange site is nearly midway between the New Haven and Milford stations," Mr. Goldblatt said, "and is directly off Marsh Hill Road, which is currently undergoing a major state reconstruction that includes road widening and exit and entrance ramp expansion that will be completed long before construction on the station would even start."
He pointed out that there are 26 properties near the West Haven site, off Saw Mill Road between Railroad Avenue and Hood Terrace, that would have to be obtained or condemned to make way for the station, but in Orange there are only about a half dozen.
West Haven leaders said most of the properties in their city are owned by two or three individuals and aren't homes as they are in Orange.
The two final proposals were selected last year from among about a dozen by the South Central Regional Council of Governments that represents 15 towns and cities in the New Haven region. 
Judy Gott, the executive director of the council, said it would support either location.
Both sites are within 2 1/2 miles of each other, are each within a short distance of Interstate 95 and both would offer more than 1,000 parking spaces.
The West Haven site, off Exit 42 of I-95 in the old Savin Rock industrial area off Saw Mill Road, would actually have more parking with plans for 1,500 spaces compared with about 1,000 in Orange. The Marsh Hill Road Orange site, off I-95 Exit 41, would include a 500-car parking garage.
Making it even tougher to decide which site is better, both plans also include offers by owners of properties at the two sites to finance part or all of the projects and then leasing the property back to the state.
In West Haven, Martin DeGrand, a principal of DeGrand Trucking who owns property near the proposed site, has offered to finance the entire project and then lease it back to the state. In Orange, DiChello Distributors Inc., which owns the land where the station would be built, has offered to build the parking garage and then lease it to the state.
But while the Orange plan is being mostly pushed by politicians and government leaders, on the West Haven side Mr. Mercuriano, 54, has mounted an aggressive grass-roots campaign that includes the petition and support from the local Veterans Hospital, the city's Chamber of Commerce, the Center for Disability Rights and Notre Dame High School. 
The Bayer Corporation late last year said it supported the Orange location, although Laura Malis, a spokeswoman for the company, said it did not know how many employees who drive to work would use either station. The main entrance to Bayer, which employs 2,000 at a 113-acre campus that straddles the border of Orange and West Haven, is in Orange.
Support for Orange also comes from State Rep. Raymond Collins, a Democract who represents both communities. He introduced a bill in the General Assembly earlier this year to allocate funding to prepare plans for an Orange station.
"If we take emotion out of the equation, the ideal site is clearly in Orange," Mr. Collins said. "The Orange site is at the junction of not only Orange and West Haven, but also the city of Milford, which has terrible overcrowded conditions at its downtown station, and the Orange site would draw Milford commuters, too."
Mr. Harris, of the transportation department, said that the consultant's report will go a long way in determining where the station would be built, noting that adding a new stop would add three or four minutes to the commute to or from New Haven.
The report on the sites is being prepared by Frederick R. Harris, a consulting firm in Stamford. Mr. Harris (no relation to the Frederick R. Harris firm) said short of finding a fatal flaw at either site, he will look for factors in the consultant's report such as cost and environmental comparisons, traffic volume, estimated user volume and which site would require more roadwork. 
He said that once a location is chosen, his agency would request the money from the Legislature.. He said once the money is approved, it could take four or five years to complete the station.
Mr. Goldblatt, the Orange first selectman, is confident, but knows the decision of where to put the station could go either way.
"It's all going to come down to the state's priorities -- if the top priority is to find the best location for the region then there's no question it would be in Orange," he said. "But if it's to help an urban center by providing a train station, then of course we don't stand a chance."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Commuters at the New Haven train station board buses, which will then get them to their local destinations. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 4); Michael Mercuriano, above, who is fighting to get trains to stop in West Haven, at the proposed site of the new station. Top, passengers get off a train in New Haven, the station many West Haven and Orange commuters must use instead. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (50%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (50%) RAILROADS; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER) 

COMPANY: BAYER CORP (69%); BAYER AG (60%)

ORGANIZATION: METRO-NORTH COMMUTER RAILROAD CO 

TICKER: BAYN (FRA) (60%); BAY (MCE) (60%); BAY (BIT) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (69%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (60%)

PERSON: WEIZEL, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT; ORANGE (CONN); WEST HAVEN (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



449 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2227 words

HEADLINE: The Coming Of Tiger 

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON 

DATELINE: HARRISON 

 BODY:
WHEN the news hit the driving range at the Westchester Country Club that Tiger Woods had officially committed to playing this week's Buick Classic here, Mark DiBuno took out a yardage finder and zeroed in on the stately homes nearby.
 DiBuno, who runs the range, pronounced them about 350 yards away, safely out of reach of club members. But a decent drive by Woods could well take out a bay window. 
 "I'm going to have to find a special spot for him way in the back," he said, half-joking.
But there was no joke about the news: Tiger was coming. And suddenly a 34-year-old tournament that has never sold out is bracing for the biggest crowds in its history. 
"The day Tiger Woods says he's playing in your tournament, it lifts virtually every aspect of your revenue stream, from TV to concession, merchandise sales and attendance income," said Dean Bonham, a sports marketing analyst based in Denver.
"It creates utter chaos," he added, "but I can assure you it is chaos people running the event are happy to deal with. It gives instant credibility and profitability, and the carry-over affects next year and the years beyond, even if Tiger doesn't show up again."
For months, Woods and Buick had said only that the Buick Classic was on Woods's schedule. And tournament officials worried that, especially with the U.S. Open the week before the Buick Classic, Woods would again skip the Classic, in order to recover.
But on June 7, Buick announced that Woods had committed to play, and the tournament basically changed from a local tour stop into a national event. Tournament workers scrambled into overdrive to brace for the crowds.
The usual number of shuttle buses from parking lots and train stations has been doubled to 40, and 10,000 parking spaces have been secured at lots at Purchase College and local corporate parks. The tournament has hired extra security guards, the nine concession tents have been enlarged and additional bleachers have been installed.
Peter Mele, the tournament director, said he had been planning for two different events, one with Woods and one without him. Early mention that Woods would play, he said, "allowed us to put a Tiger plan in place."
Mele said that more tournament marshals would be added to Woods's playing group to deal with crowds.
"His presence puts more pressure on our people working out on the course," he said. "It's just such an impact, and there are just that many more spectators to deal with, that it makes it more critical they do their job well."
Now officials are faced with the problem of ticket sales, something akin to word getting out about Springsteen playing the local prom. Tickets have sold briskly since speculation about Woods began. Typically, tickets have always been available at the gate. But this year, officials say, it is likely that every round will sell out.
Woods's appearance in a tournament can double its attendance. While some other tournaments routinely get 50,000 to 60,000 spectators, the Classic has usually dealt with crowds of less than 20,000. In a smaller market, the Greater Hartford Open has drawn 100,000 on weekends.
Ticketmaster outlets are handling the sales, and for the first time, there is the prospect of tickets being scalped. Mele said he would limit sales to 35,000 tickets a day, the maximum the course can handle.
"We want to make sure fans have a good experience," he said. "If we go and add another 5,000 tickets and tell people tickets are still available at the gate, we could have 10,000 people show up, and everyone would have a miserable experience. We just don't have the parking."
General admission tickets are $30 a day, but there are other options, including the $60 ticket to gain admittance to the club's patio for lunch. The $150 ticket provides admittance to the Champions Club, a large air-conditioned hospitality tent in the center of the course with panoramic views.
But much of the golf course, built in 1922, offers only casual viewing at best. It cannot accommodate the large crowds seen by more modern courses built for stadium golf.
Still, tournament officials are trying to devise strategies to handle larger crowds, creating new viewing and walking areas and adding more bleachers, including 500 new seats behind the 17th green, Mele said.
It is hard to overstate what Woods's appearance means to the Buick Classic, Westchester's most prominent sporting event. Golf industry experts say his presence alone will lift the event to a status it has never attained, increasing national visibility and even giving the area an economic boost.
"We've never seen anything like this here," said Brandon Steiner, chairman of Steiner Sports, a New Rochelle-based marketing company. "Westchester has no sporting events like this. You may get, what, 3,000 people at Yonkers Raceway? But this will fill every hotel and restaurant. There are cars being rented and private jets landing at the airport. It's hard to estimate, but this could be a $25 million boost in the economy.
"This is huge publicity for Westchester," he added. "Tiger is the critical difference for being a first-class golf tournament. If you don't have him, you're simply not in the big leagues. People are going to come from all over because it's once in a lifetime. Imagine you had the opportunity to see Babe Ruth play."
Since it was born as the Westchester Classic in 1967, won by Jack Nicklaus, the tournament has grown every year. However, it has never fully capitalized on its proximity to New York City, where interest in golf takes a back seat to celebrity cachet. 
But Woods, arguably one of the world's most famous athletes, has the celebrity to draw non-golf fans and could raise the tournament's status.
Certainly, the New York connection is being seized upon by marketing officials this year, with Woods scheduled to play in a foursome with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in a charity pro-am on Wednesday. Proceeds from the tournament will go to New York United Hospital Medical Center in Port Chester and other charities.
The buzz about Tiger extends beyond the golf course. Nearby homeowners are making a cottage industry of selling parking space in their yards and renting out their houses for the week for upwards of $20,000.
Hotels are booked, and the county airport is preparing for the roughly 20 top players flying in by private jet, said Steve Ferguson, the airport's operations manager.
Even the golf course itself is being shored up, for golfers and spectators alike.
The course has always been one of the toughest on the tour, and according to Joe Alonzi, the course's longtime superintendent, it will play even tougher this year because of significant changes.
"The players are going to see a different golf course," he said. His staff of 42 workers has been expanded to 65 to prepare for the tournament.
Most of the sand traps, 57 to be exact, were rebuilt this spring, some were reconfigured, and some were deepened up to seven feet, with new drainage and new sand. The tee areas on holes 6 and 13 were moved back about 30 yards to add length.
The rough has been grown about eight inches high, and the greens are as hard and fast as they have ever been. They are cut three times a day and rolled smooth every morning. And instead of using sprinklers, workers are now hand-watering the greens.
The improvements demanded five acres of new sod, installed around the greens and bunkers, but also in gallery areas, to prepare for the crowds.
"We're going to have the largest crowds ever here, and the walking areas are tight," Alonzi said. "We may have to close the gates, and to me that's a good thing, because if you sell an unlimited amount of tickets, this course is just not equipped to handle that."
The news about Woods had Steve Mahady, operations manager for the tournament, speeding around in a golf cart, fielding calls on his walkie-talkie and cell phone.
"Of course we're bracing for Tiger; it takes the event to a different level," said Mahady, one of the four P.G.A. Tour employees who work on this event year-round. "With or without Tiger, it's a lot of details to handle. They just become much larger details if he comes.
"You can see we have limited real estate here," he said. "I mean, this is New York. Also with parking. If this were Kansas City, you could have people park 20 miles away and that's 20 minutes. In New York that can mean three hours."
Mahady zoomed by the 18th green, where workers were assembling a large metal scaffolding for the luxury sky boxes. The 19 corporate boxes each have air conditioning and bar and food accommodations for about 30 people. The ones overlooking the 18th green cost $40,000 for the week, and the ones on holes 16 and 17 cost $30,000, including food and drink.
One of seven air-conditioned toilet trailers being used this week had arrived at the course and Mahady was directing it into the corporate hospitality area. The area looks like a futuristic village with its dozen cone-top tents, which are rented by companies that include Buick and ABC.
In the middle of the course is the Spectator Village, where fans can visit interactive exhibits by ESPN, Bloomberg and others.
Lisa Harap, who oversees hundreds of volunteers preparing for the tournament, said that when new volunteers arrive the first thing they are told is how to deal with the most common phone call.
"It's every call," she said. "They all ask, 'Is Tiger coming?' People say they're coming solely because of him."
One volunteer, Jamie Willis, said that once it was announced that Woods was playing, the tournament was flooded with volunteers.
"Every Tom, Dick and Harry wants to volunteer now, and every coach of every golf program wants free tickets," said Willis, who for seven years has commuted by train from Manhattan to work the tournament.
The day before the 1997 event began, Ernie Els, who won the Classic in 1996 and 1997, called Woods "the future of golf."
And since then, Woods has rewritten golf history, winning its four major tournaments in succession, something no golfer has done except Bobby Jones in 1930. And Woods is shooting for his fifth straight major this weekend, the U.S. Open.
In his sixth year on the P.G.A. Tour, Woods, 25, has won 28 tournaments. Last year, he won nine tournaments and set a record for the lowest seasonal scoring average, 67.79.
Still, his history at the Buick Classic has been less than spectacular. He missed the cut as an 18-year-old amateur in 1994. And in 1997, after winning the Masters in his first full season as a pro, he tied for 43rd at the Buick Classic.
The other 155 golfers playing in the Classic this week range from local club pros to some of the world's top players, including Els, Vijay Singh, Sergio Garcia, Corey Pavin, Steve Elkington, Ben Crenshaw and Nick Faldo.
But the spotlight is clearly on Woods.
"If he wins the U.S. Open the week before this, you won't be able to get a ticket," predicted John Kennedy, director of golf at the Westchester Country Club. Even fans who do get tickets, he added, may not see much of Woods anyway.
"This is a traditional golf course, not one designed for a huge crowd," he said. "If you have 25,000 total spectators and 10,000 of them are following Tiger, you have to get out four, five, six holes ahead just to see him go by. Unless you come early enough to see him warm up on the range, you could wind up seeing maybe two shots during his round."
He predicted success for Woods at Westchester. The course has narrow fairways and small fast greens, and a long hitter like Woods can afford to hit irons off the tee for accuracy. The two long par 5's here, the 9th and 18th holes, will be more difficult than ever, even for Woods, since new bunkers were added around the green to make it harder to hit in two shots. 
Woods needs the $630,000 first-place prize money about as much as he needs the Buick S.U.V. given to the winner.
Since turning pro in September 1996, he has become the P.G.A. Tour's all-time leading money winner with more than $24 million. He won a record $9.2 million in prize money last year.
But his prize money pales in comparison with the $370.4 million he has landed in endorsement contracts. He negotiated two five-year, $100 million contracts, one with Nike and another with Disney, the richest endorsement contracts in sports history.
Given his wealth and success, there has been much speculation about why Woods decided to play in the Buick Classic this year. 
Traditionally, the tournament falls before the U.S. Open, a week in which Woods likes to prepare rather than compete. That's not the case this year, however, making the event more attractive. 
But on the golf courses of Westchester, many wondered whether Woods was feeling pressure from Buick, which signed him to a five-year, $25 million contract in 1999. Since then Woods only played in two of the four Buick-sponsored tournaments last year.
But Tony Derhake, executive director of Buick Golf, denied this.
"There was no arm-twisting," he said. "He has no commitment to play in any of our tournaments."
Derhake did say that, of Buick's four tournaments, the Classic is in the company's largest and most important market, and that Woods's presence would give the tournament its highest visibility ever.
"Oh, big time," he said. "He'll give it the largest lift it's ever gotten. He can double the attendance, the concession and the press coverage. This will definitely sell more Buicks."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tiger Woods, teeing off at the Memorial Tournament in Dublin, Ohio, on June 2. He is playing this week in the Buick Classic, his first appearance in the tournament since 1997. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); In preparation for the Buick Classic at the Westchester Country Club in Harrison, workers assemble luxury corporate boxes at the 18th hole, above, top right and bottom right. The ones at the 18th green cost $40,000 for the week. And instead of relying on sprinklers, Bob McFee, groundskeeper, left, is hand-watering the greens. The greens are cut three times a day. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); GOLF (90%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); TICKET SALES (74%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (74%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS BUSINESS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); RETAIL SALES (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); SPORTS MARKETING (67%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%) GOLF; BUICK CLASSIC (GOLF) 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER COUNTRY CLUB INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER COUNTRY CLUB 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713910 GOLF COURSES & COUNTRY CLUBS (58%); SIC7997 MEMBERSHIP SPORTS & RECREATION CLUBS (58%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (94%) WOODS, TIGER; KILGANNON, COREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



450 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Of Politics, Free Markets, And Tending To Society

BYLINE:  By TOM REDBURN 

 BODY:
WHEN President Bush rejected the pleas late last month of Gov. Gray Davis of California to impose price caps on Western electricity rates, the president used the language of Economics 101 to argue that price controls would be a dangerous interference with the free market. "Price caps do nothing to reduce demand," Mr. Bush said, "and they do nothing to increase supply."
 But when confronted only a few days later with an equally blatant demand to cast aside the workings of the market -- in a case involving imported steel -- Mr. Bush went the other way. He abandoned his free-trade argument and threw his support behind quotas against foreign steel makers. 
 Hypocritical? Perhaps. But also perfectly understandable.
And for economists who insist on the sanctity of the market above everything else, there are lessons in both moves.
For one thing, in a democracy politics trumps economics just about every time. By moving against so-called dumping, the sale of imported steel in the United States at low prices, President Bush was playing to two steel-making states, West Virginia and Pennsylvania, that are crucial to his re-election plans.
And by rejecting Governor Davis's demands for price controls, the president was making it equally clear that he already considers California to be lost to the Democrats. (If the Bush administration agrees this week to limit Western electricity prices in response to pressure from lawmakers, that only reinforces the importance of political influence over economic reasoning.)
Steven E. Landsburg, an economist at the University of Rochester, was understandably cheered by Mr. Bush's opposition to price caps and even more angered by his move to limit steel imports. In The Wall Street Journal, he wrote:
"Free trade is not only about the right of American consumers to buy at the cheapest possible price; it's also about the right of foreign producers to earn a living. Steelworkers in West Virginia struggle hard to make ends meet. So do steelworkers in South Korea. To protect one at the expense of the other, solely because of where they happened to be born, is a moral outrage."
But for all the eloquence of that view, it will not carry market advocates very far. It is not some evil character flaw to care more about the welfare of people nearby than about that of those far away -- it's human nature. And it is morally -- and economically -- defensible.
Even though they create wealth and promote overall efficiency, markets do, after all, leave plenty of losers. Steelworkers in Pennsylvania genuinely suffer when they lose their jobs to Korean mills that can provide less expensive steel to the benefit of American consumers. Similarly, the profits of energy producers enjoying the advantages of tight electricity markets, whether or not they are gaming the system, come directly out of the pockets of California energy users and taxpayers.
These negative effects cannot be dismissed out of hand. A society that ignores the consequences of economic disruption on those among its citizens who come out at the short end of the stick is not only heartless, it also undermines its own cohesion and adaptability. Indeed, the more efficiently the machinery of the market has operated in recent years, the more those who see themselves as its victims have tried to throw sand in the gears.
Francis Fukuyama, in a book called "Trust: The Social Virtues and the Creation of Prosperity" (Free Press, 1996), argued that neoclassical economics, for all its virtues, ignores the role of "social capital," such intangibles as "reciprocity, moral obligation, duty toward community and trust," in maintaining the prosperity of post-industrial societies.
"American liberals need to understand that they cannot take organic cohesion of American society for granted," Mr. Fukuyama wrote. "American conservatives, for their part, have to understand that before they cut back the role of the state in society, they should have some idea about how to regenerate civil society and find alternative ways of taking care of its weaker members."
At the same time, the case for relying primarily on market mechanisms to deal with issues like California's energy woes and the decline of the American steel industry remains strong. The political tendency to drag things out often only adds to the costs and creates more suffering than getting the pain out of the way quickly. But in promoting such approaches, economists need to take the losses into account and support substantial compensation for those who suffer the consequences.
"Those who pay attention to community," Mr. Fukuyama concluded, "may indeed become the most efficient of all." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); TRENDS (76%); LAYOFFS (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) REDBURN, TOM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



451 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
The Planners Pounce on the Tax Cut

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH KELLEHER 

 BODY:
EVEN before President Bush signed the tax-cut law on June 7, financial services companies began deluging investors with advice on how they should change their planning.
 Congress passed the bill on Saturday, May 26, during the Memorial Day weekend. By the next Tuesday, Merrill Lynch was running full-page advertisements in major newspapers under the headline "How the New Tax Plan Affects Your Future Depends on What You Do Right Now." Fidelity Investments was right on Merrill's heels, and a host of others have followed. 
 The barrage of appeals may cause some confusion among investors. The most obvious difficulty, said Joseph Healy, a vice president of the T. Rowe Price Group in Baltimore, is that the advice may be premature. "You can't really act on it," he said. Many important provisions of the new law will take effect months or years from now.
There is another fundamental problem: once they do take effect, the changes may be so short-lived that it may not make sense to act on them. All the provisions of the tax act expire on Jan. 1, 2011. "The entire act is subject to this sunset provision," said Lori Noffsinger, manager for financial planning at First Union Securities in Richmond, Va.
Nonetheless, marketers are scrambling to create advertising campaigns, direct-mail brochures and brown-bag seminars to educate people about the tax changes, even though many clients will be inclined to do nothing this year.
"We're spending our dollars today to win the trust and confidence of our prospects," said David Acey, First Union's marketing director. 
Many money managers are convinced that the tax act is a watershed event in terms of the business it will generate in coming months. 
By comparison, the creation of Roth I.R.A.'s in 1997 was "minuscule," said Charles Gabriel, a senior vice president at Prudential Securities in Washington. Advertising will pick up over the summer, Mr. Gabriel said, timed to coincide with rebate checks, the one tangible part of the tax law for most people this year. 
The "Hamptons Effect" -- the tendency of Wall Street to take a summer break -- may not hold, at least not for marketers, said Tom Joyce, a spokesman for American Express Financial Advisors in Minneapolis. Slowness "might hit the market in terms of volume," Mr. Joyce said, "but not in terms of advertising."
The act creates a 10 percent tax bracket for the first $6,000 earned by singles and $12,000 by married couples. The lower bracket will apply to taxes paid on 2000 returns and will mean a few hundred dollars for many taxpayers. "Rather than spending your refund, you may want to put it to work for you," A. G. Edwards said in a mailing to clients.
MOST aspects of the law are more difficult to explain than the rebate. Income tax relief, for example, includes a child tax credit that increases in steps beginning next year, going to $1,000 from $500 a child by 2010. The top tax bracket decreases in steps, to 35 percent from 39.6 percent by 2006, and marriage penalty relief arrives in 2005.
Like those credits and cuts, the changes to savings vehicles will be phased in gradually. Bob Horton, integrated-marketing director at Merrill Lynch in Plainsboro, N.J., defended aggressive advertising. For the next decade, he said, "you have to plan to plan."
One focus for Merrill Lynch is the changes in the estate tax. The amount of money exempt from the tax will go up in four steps between now and 2009, while the rate goes down in six steps. In 2010, the estate tax will be eliminated -- until everything reverts to today's rules on Jan. 1, 2011. 
"Almost anybody who has a will needs to have it rewritten with a different set of distribution rules applying for each year between now and 2011," said Ken Kies, chairman of the federal tax policy group of PricewaterhouseCoopers in Washington. Mr. Kies said people considering insurance to pay estate taxes would have trouble deciding how much, if any, to buy.
Despite such thorny issues, Merrill Lynch this week started a second advertising campaign tied specifically to estate-tax changes.
Other advertisements will focus on education and retirement accounts.
The Education I.R.A., which allows money to be withdrawn tax-free to pay for a child's school expenses, will have a higher limit on contributions -- $2,000 next year, up from $500 -- and will be open to higher-income participants. Couples with an adjusted gross income of $190,000, up from $150,000, will be eligible to make a maximum contribution.
In addition, money may be withdrawn tax-free for elementary and secondary school expenses -- including tutoring, uniforms, extended day care and computer equipment -- as well as for college.
Qualified State Tuition Plans, or Section 529 plans, are becoming more attractive. Beginning in 2002 money can be withdrawn free of federal tax. Those withdrawals, however, are limited to expenses for higher education. Contribution limits vary by state but are usually much higher than those for the Education I.R.A. Planned advertisements will focus on generous grandparents.
JOHN SEARING, vice president for planning at the L. Warner Companies, a financial planner in Timonium, Md., is focusing on changes in retirement savings vehicles. Warner will use direct mail to explain that under the new tax law, contributions to both Roth and traditional I.R.A.'s will eventually rise to $5,000 a year from $2,000. (A Roth allows tax-free withdrawals after age 59 1/2, while traditional I.R.A.'s defer taxes until withdrawal after age 59 1/2.)
Todd Cleary of T. Rowe Price's financial planning services unit emphasized that investors who are at least 50 years old will be able to make additional "catch-up contributions" to both types of I.R.A.'s of $500 a year through 2005 and $1,000 a year starting in 2006. In addition, annual contribution limits to 401(k) plans, a savings vehicle offered by many employers, will go up to $15,000 in 2006, from $10,500, and then increase for inflation. The sunset provision may motivate higher contributions by those who want to beef up their accounts before the rules change again, he said.
Still, the uncertainties surrounding the law could turn off clients, Mr. Cleary said. "Retirement planning is such long-term stuff," he said. "Sometimes, if it's too complex, people throw up their hands." 
This complexity presents a marketing challenge. "It's not like trying to say, 'You can get a laptop in a new blue color,' " Mr. Joyce of American Express lamented. 
Despite some marketers' breathless tones, Mr. Kies of PricewaterhouseCoopers said, most investors can safely defer action. He said it would be wise to see if the president and Congress agree next year to extend the tax changes through 2011.
"If annual extensions mount, we're closer to being able to count on the tax law's opponents saying, 'Hell with it; let's make it permanent,' " Mr. Kies said. That might help investors plan more effectively.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Taking shape on a designer's screen, an advertisement for First Union Securities urges people to invest money they receive as a result of the new tax law. (Dean Hoffmyer for The New York Times) Chart: "A Moving Target"After many changes, much of thetax code is to revert to its current form on Jan. 1, 2011. Graphs show TOP FEDERAL TAX RATE; ESTATE-TAX RATE; LIMIT FOR ESTATE-TAX EXEMPTION; I.R.A. AND ROTH I.R.A. CONTRIBUTION LIMIT; RETIREMENT PLAN CONTRIBUTION LIMIT; and EDUCATION I.R.A. CONTRIBUTION LIMIT* from 2001-2011. *Disbursements from state-sponsored 529 education plans are tax free from 2002-10. (Source: A. G. Edwards)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (71%); SALES REBATES (58%); MARRIAGE (50%) TAXATION 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); T ROWE PRICE GROUP INC (56%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (55%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (51%)

TICKER: TROW (NASDAQ) (56%); AMP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) KELLEHER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (55%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



452 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Europe Builds Itself Up At Bush's Expense

BYLINE:  By GREGG EASTERBROOK 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THOUSANDS of protesters chanted against President Bush during his stops in Spain, Belgium and Sweden last week, some baring their rear ends; European leaders spoke condescendingly of America's president; the European press depicted him as a cowboy hayseed. In other words, from the European perspective, the Bush visit could not have gone better.
 As the European Union struggles to expand, to "harmonize" its thousands of overlapping rules, to manage its uncountable internecine jealousies and to formulate a new understanding of what it means to be European, there is one thing all Europeans seem to agree on. It is faux horror about the United States. 
 For all their pretenses of being dismayed by Mr. Bush, if European Union leaders were to describe their dream American president for this moment in time, they might well specify someone exactly like Mr. Bush -- seemingly, at least to European eyes, unsophisticated, swaggering and brash, all the qualities the European Union can unite on in dreading the United States. 
"The European Union has a hormone problem," says Jeffrey Gedmin, a Europe scholar who runs the New Atlantic Initiative at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington. "They are developing a sense that whatever diminishes the stature of the United States is of benefit to Europe." 
During Mr. Bush's visit, President Jacques Chirac of France, Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder of Germany and Prime Minister Wim Kok of the Netherlands all criticized his positions on global warming and missile defense, breaking the taboo that heads of state do not air disagreements during state visits. The Council of Europe, roughly analogous to the Organization of American States, was so underwhelmed that the American president was in its jurisdiction that by midweek the front page of its Web site had no mention of his presence. Instead, the major news was, "Parliamentary Assembly to Observe Elections in Bulgaria." 
Such slights against the leader of the best friend Europe has ever had were intended to inflate the European Union's collective ego. For great issues have recently made the European Union fractious: proposed expansion from 15 to 27 member nations (basically all the former Eastern Europeans states want in, and Ireland just voted no to that); whether Turkey should become part of Europe (if it qualifies for the European Union, Turkey would receive huge subsidies); whether there should be a European meta-government that supersedes national capitals. And with the demise of the Soviet Union, Europe now has no enemy to unite its competing states.
In such a context, Europe might find it useful to have a common antagonist. Enter Mr. Bush.
The Bush administration's rejection of the Kyoto global warming treaty, supposedly bad news, actually could not have been scripted better. European Union leaders got to repeatedly denounce Mr. Bush for saying the United States will not ratify Kyoto -- though no European Union nation has ratified it, either. After the 1992 "Earth Summit" in Rio, when Mr. Bush's father declared that the United States would not accept mandatory greenhouse-gas reductions, he was lambasted by European leaders, who vowed prompt, decisive action to impose restrictions on their own. They did nothing.
Last week, after deriding the Bush position on Kyoto, the European Union again vowed prompt greenhouse action, promising to ratify Kyoto on its own. Yet no European nation other than Denmark has any serious greenhouse-reduction strategy even in the planning stages, while a stand-alone European Union ratification of Kyoto is a million-to-one shot. From the Europeans' standpoint, the ideal outcome was for the Kyoto treaty to collapse but for Washington to take the blame. Now Europe gets to act outraged, while being spared the hard work and cost of actual reform.
Indeed, despite European protestations, American ecological standards are far more strict than European rules, and have been for 20 years or more. "Europe is now the world leader on environmental issues," the Swedish environment minister, Kjell Larsson, said as Mr. Bush arrived in his nation. But Paris today has worse smog than Houston; water quality, especially of rivers, is lower in Europe than in the United States; acid rain reduction has been more rapid in the United States than in Europe; European Union nations like Greece, Italy and Portugal still discharge huge volumes of untreated municipal waste water, a practice all but banned in America. In addition, the European Union did not act against leaded gasoline till more than a decade after the United States; the forested percentage of the United States is higher than the forested percentage of most European countries, while America has fewer threatened species than Europe; and many other environmental indicators favor the United States.
It is true that Europe is more energy-efficient than America. And moreover, as Bjorn Lomborg, a professor at the University of Aarhus in Denmark, demonstrates in the forthcoming book "The Skeptical Environmentalist," smog is declining and water quality improving everywhere in the West, Europe and America alike. But the idea that Europe is ahead on environmental matters is a convenient fiction of European politics. 
TRYING to build up Europe by acting outraged against America has become the European national sport on many fronts. One is anger about globalization by American companies, though European firms are themselves active globalizers. 
European diplomats harp on America's refusal to agree to a global treaty banning land mines. (The Pentagon maintains that its defense of the North-South Korean border rules out a land-mine ban.) Land-mine reduction is an important goal, but pales on the arms agenda compared with reduction of nuclear warheads -- something that, inconveniently, Washington is pursuing.
On no subject is Europe's internal need to feel superior to the United States more clear than capital punishment. Outlawing capital punishment is now a condition of European Union membership, and European commentators like to suggest there is a huge values gap between Europe and America. Always skipped is that 12 American states ban the death penalty, while polls show public pro-and-con views regarding capital punishment are nearly identical in the United States and the European Union. When the French politician Jack Lang was campaigning for mayor of Paris, he ostentatiously traveled to Texas to meet with a death-row prisoner; he was lauded in France. (Imagine if a candidate for mayor of Dallas traveled to Paris to meet with poor North African immigrants to discuss French racism.) Something besides moral opposition to the death penalty underlies this European obsession.
That something may extend to a realignment of American-European relations. Speaking in France before Mr. Bush's visit, former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said the European allies now perceive a need to check American strength. Using the balance-of-power calculations that are the mainstay of traditional European diplomacy, Europe worries that America is too strong, and wants to bring it down a notch.
Mr. Gedmin of the American Enterprise Institute thinks the day may not be far off when Europe sides with Russia or even China against America on some key issue. A possible preview: When Mr. Bush first decided to review North Korea policy, the European Union sent a delegation to Pyongyang to confuse the situation. 
It seems certain there's more Euro-static coming, because for the moment, many European leaders believe that making small of America is in their interest.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A security guard surveying protesters as President Bush visited the European Union summit in Sweden. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (59%) EUROPE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ENVIRONMENT; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) EUROPEAN UNION 

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%) EASTERBROOK, GREGG; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SWEDEN (93%); SPAIN (92%); BELGIUM (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); BULGARIA (58%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



453 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: June 10-16; 
Talk That's Not Cheap

BYLINE:  By MARC LACEY

 BODY:
He may not have Air Force One at his disposal anymore, but former President Bill Clinton has still been traveling the world with a vengeance, mixing highly paid speaking engagements with do-good events.
 He flies commercial, with an occasional chartered flight thrown in, but he is no regular passenger. 
He always sits in first class, aides say, and he spends the flights signing cocktail napkins or tickets for fellow passengers and visiting the cockpit. He has tarmac privileges at many airports, allowing him to avoid the terminals. But sometimes he joins the crowds. He was spotted at an Au Bon Pain at Logan International Airport in Boston, waiting in line for a chicken sandwich. 
 Aides say he has hit 17 or so countries since leaving office. There was an economics forum in Hong Kong, a vacation to the Dominican Republic, a festival in Britain's Hay-on-Wye, and stops in Canada, Nigeria, Austria, Sweden, Poland, Spain, Ireland and South Africa.
Of course, he charges for some appearances. After all, he still has many legal bills to settle. And most of his speaking invitations come from abroad. Industry officials say he brings in a hefty $150,000 a speech plus travel and other expenses. For some talks, like one for the World Congress on Information Technology, set for February in Australia, he charges more. An Australian newspaper put his fee at $264,000, but Mr. Clinton's aides said that figure was too high -- by a bit. 
Today, he heads to Palo Alto for the graduation of his daughter, Chelsea, from Stanford. There will be no speaking -- he's just going as a proud father. MARC LACEY

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaking in Hong Kong in May. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); PARAEDUCATORS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%) HONG KONG (91%); AUSTRALIA (90%); NIGERIA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (75%); CANADA (74%); AUSTRIA (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



454 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT IN EUROPE: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Bush and Putin Look Each Other in the Eye

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: LJUBLJANA, Slovenia, June 16 

 BODY:
Whatever happens now, for good or for ill, a new era in America's relations with Russia began today.
 Seldom have two leaders so strikingly overcome the limited expectations about their first meeting as George W. Bush and Vladimir V. Putin did today, putting their new friendship on a high plane of newfound trust and instructing their defense chiefs, both hard-liners, and their foreign secretaries, to find a common approach for a new framework for international security. 
 Whether this constructive new beginning -- made with surprising buoyancy and personal engagement -- will succeed as the genuine partnership that Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin described here this afternoon will depend on how they follow through on the collaborative venture that they outlined only in broad strokes. 
It includes joint work to study security threats, cooperative energy projects and new studies on how American corporations might find investment opportunities in the struggling Russian economy. It also includes American support for Russia's entry into the World Trade Organization.
"This was a very good meeting," Mr. Bush said standing alongside the Russian president. "He is an honest, straightforward man who loves his country," he added, and he called Mr. Putin a "remarkable" leader whom Americans can trust. 
Mr. Putin confirmed the American president's assessment and said the meeting had proved that "reality was a lot bigger than expectations." He asserted that an important cold war milestone had been passed with Mr. Bush's declaration that Russia is no longer America's enemy.
The two men had come to look each other in the eye, and Mr. Bush said he did just that to take the measure of Mr. Putin's soul. They both appeared to like what they saw, even as they laid out the agenda of their extensive disagreements on missile defenses, the expansion of NATO onto the territory of the former Soviet Union and Russia's growing arms trade with Iran. 
And today's reversal of tone in American-Russian relations may reflect how much each leader needed the positive outcome. Mr. Bush needed to prove to Europe and to the Senate that he was not engaged in recklessness as he pursued a new security concept that includes missile defenses. And Mr. Putin needed to know that the new Bush administration was not looking for a confrontation because Mr. Putin has his hands full at home trying to pull Russia beyond the wreckage of the Soviet era.
For more than two hours, Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin discussed a world rapidly transforming itself from the world of their fathers and despite the surprisingly positive outcome of today's meeting, it cannot be separated from the extraordinary week of diplomatic activity that preceded it. 
In his first major diplomatic foray abroad, Mr. Bush discovered this week that Europe was becoming its own powerhouse of economic and security interests that, while similar to those of the United States, are by no means identical on issues as diverse as climate change and urgent European calls for NATO to step into the fray in Macedonia.
And though Mr. Bush may have succeeded in fostering what he termed a "new receptivity" to his proposal for missile defenses among some European leaders this week, Germany and France stood as formidable skeptics, each concerned that Mr. Bush's plan would trigger a new arms race by not taking into account Russia's and China's concerns. 
As if to sharpen that point, Mr. Putin made his entrance here after flying from China, where he and President Jiang Zemin and the leaders of four Central Asian republics signed the founding charter of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, not quite an alliance, but a potent new expression of Asian interests.
Indeed, despite the warming with Mr. Bush, Mr. Putin seems to be fostering a new era of triangular diplomacy, positioning Russia to be an ally of China and of Europe as a hedge against American unilateralism, a concern he mentioned today. His tactic put Mr. Bush on the defensive, and Mr. Bush this week was at pains to assert that America is not about to go it alone in international affairs, but was trying instead to galvanize support for a new international security concept. The concept remains largely undefined except that missile defenses are a prominent centerpiece. 
With all the disagreement, however, what seemed most important was that the two presidents -- neither of whom has been in office very long, one a former Soviet K.G.B. officer, the other a scion of American wealth and political dynasty -- had finally met in the shadow of the Alps, near the fragile epicenter of European instability in the Balkans.
Mr. Putin had been seeking this meeting since almost the day after Mr. Bush's inauguration, but Mr. Bush's advisers delayed it for months, saying they were formulating a new policy toward Russia, one that now seems to be taking shape.
The two leaders now move on, to see each other again in July and October at the summit meeting of leading industrial nations in Genoa and of Asian and Pacific leaders in Shanghai, and they accepted invitations to visit not just each other's capitals but each other's homes.
Between now and then, both must return to domestic political challenges. Mr. Bush faces the Senate, now led by Democrats, many of whom are as skeptical as some European leaders about the consequences of abandoning the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty and how to pay for missile defenses even if they turn out to be feasible.
And Mr. Putin returns to Moscow, where he must prove that he is the democratic leader he advertises himself to be, one who wants to take Russia into Europe, a goal that will be difficult to reach as long as the partisan war in Chechnya continues without negotiation. 
Mr. Putin's yearold government also stands at a critical juncture of reform, with sweeping proposals to build a new judicial system, institute jury trials and privatize land ownership this year, an issue still so contentious in post-Soviet Russia that a fistfight broke out Friday among lawmakers. And though Mr. Putin this week reaffirmed his commitment to a free press and to building civil society, his administration has been dogged by incidents of pressure and intimidation that have called that commitment into question.
"This is a unique opportunity," said Aleksei Arbatov, an influential member of the Russian Parliament watching events from Moscow. "There are a lot of problems and mutual suspicions between our countries, and the main issue for both leaders is to decide whether they want to resolve these issues cooperatively, or to deal with those problems without dealing with each other."
"The fact that the United States is the only remaining superpower in the world," he continued, "means that it has to use this opportunity to demonstrate that it is a well-meaning state trying to establish the rule of the game for international relations on the basis of cooperation and not on force." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); ARMS TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (56%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TYLER, PATRICK E 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (94%); SLOVENIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



455 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Chelsea Clinton, Still a Closed Book 

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: STANFORD, Calif., June 15 

 BODY:
She may be the ultimate anomaly of the multimedia age, a household face whose voice has so seldom been heard that she could be a silent movie star. She was not yet 13 when she first slipped onto the national stage in her parents' shadow, and at 21, having traveled the world at her parents' side, she is barely better known.
 On Sunday, when she becomes one of this year's crop of 1,600 graduates of Stanford University, Chelsea Victoria Clinton will pass an irretrievable milestone of adulthood in a nation that watched her grow up in wordless pantomime. 
 "We've come a long way from when she turned 16 and radio stations called and offered to give her a car," said Neel Lattimore, a former press spokesman for Hillary Rodham Clinton who was often charged with helping enforce the Clintons' fiercely protective no-press zone around their only child.
In her four years here, university officials have tried hard not to mention her name, let alone issue any information about her, but on the brink of graduation, some facts are known. 
Ms. Clinton has earned a bachelor's degree in history, with highest honors, and wrote her 150-page senior thesis on the Northern Ireland peace process. It includes interviews with a certain former American president to whom the paper formally refers in the third person. And like her father, Bill Clinton, before her, she is headed to Oxford University in the fall, to pursue a master's degree in a course of study that is not yet set but will apparently involve international relations and economics.
"She did an absolutely prodigious amount of work," said her admiring thesis adviser, Prof. Jack Rakove, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of "Original Meanings: Politics and Ideas in the Making of the Constitution," who taught a course on Thomas Jefferson that Ms. Clinton took last year. Professor Rakove said he was doubly impressed because Ms. Clinton took the fall semester off to enjoy her family's last months in the White House and settled on a topic only in the winter.
"As you might expect," Professor Rakove said, "she's really well informed. If you talk books with her, you can be blown away by how much she knows."
The Clintons have put Chelsea at their side in times of joy, on election nights, at conventions, in campaigns and on state visits, and in times of trouble, most notably in the painful walk to the presidential helicopter after Mr. Clinton confessed infidelity in the Monica Lewinsky scandal. But with a handful of exceptions, most strikingly in impromptu comments in Tanzania when she told a group of young women of a "hopelessness and cynicism" that had a hold on some American youths, Chelsea has been seen and not heard, and there is no sign that her graduation will change that.
Through family spokesmen, Ms. Clinton declined to be interviewed for this article and turned down other requests, including an offer to pose for the cover of Vanity Fair in circumstances of her choosing. Her mother, Senator Clinton, did not respond to repeated interview requests left with her press secretary.
But Bill Clinton, delighted at the prospect of a Father's Day graduation, agreed to respond to written questions from The New York Times, and recalled a flood of memories of the birth, first day of school, dance and piano recitals and an early science project on Jupiter of the daughter who, he said, "has her mother's character and her father's energy."
"Perhaps even more than when Chelsea finished high school," Mr. Clinton wrote, "I think Hillary and I are graduating too, to a new phase in our relationship with Chelsea. We are excited about it, grateful that she still wants to spend time with us, and sure I'll be learning a lot more as we tag along in her life."
The Clintons are doing their best to blend in with other families here this weekend, along with Mrs. Clinton's mother, Dorothy Rodham, and Dick Kelley, the widower of Mr. Clinton's mother, Virginia, though it is safe to say that the parents of most other graduates are not bunking at the home of Steve Jobs, co-founder and chairman of Apple Computer. Former White House staff members, led by the president's personal aide, Kris Engskov, are here to help handle logistics and the one formal photo opportunity planned for the press on Sunday, to be sandwiched between the universitywide graduation at Stanford Stadium and the private departmental ceremony at which Ms. Clinton, like other students, will actually receive her diploma.
"We're going to parties and dinners with her friends and their families, attending her graduation events and whatever else she wants to do," Mr. Clinton said.
There were no visible signs that Ms. Clinton's graduation loomed as anything out of the ordinary on this high-powered campus, where Justice Stephen G. Breyer of the United States Supreme Court, a onetime Stanford parent, was spotted casually strolling today.
"She's just a totally normal student," said Gretchen DeVries, 21, a junior from Poughkeepsie, N.Y., who is majoring in materials science engineering. "Everyone here has accomplishments. She really doesn't make a larger contribution than anybody else."
Ms. DeVries's friend Naomi Chin, 20, also a junior engineering major, from Washington, D.C., added: "Off campus, that's all people want to know about, is Chelsea. But here she blends in. The Secret Service agents dress like other students and walk 40 feet behind her, and if you didn't know to look for them, you wouldn't know they were there."
Ms. Clinton has endured the occasional tabloid report that she was spotted dancing in this or that nightclub, but managed to avoid any public scrapes with authority akin to the recent charges against Jenna and Barbara Bush, the current president's twin daughters, for alcohol violations in Texas. 
One Clinton family friend expressed unease about the inevitable comparisons. "This just tends to put her even more on a pedestal," the friend said, "and she's great, but if you're on a pedestal, there's only one direction to go."
Mr. Clinton declined to comment on the Bush case but said, "By and large, the press and people generally have given Chelsea the space to grow up without undue intrusion, and I'm grateful for that." He added: "It isn't easy to grow up in the spotlight, especially when children are first exposed to it. I think the more limited the public focus on children, the better."
Carl Sferrazza Anthony, a historian who studies presidential families, noted that the world could only guess at Ms. Clinton's deepest feelings.
"We're speculating a lot on how she survived," Mr. Anthony said. "I think there has to have been some psychic damage that occurs. When you're a bright young person interested in the world around you, and you're hearing what people are saying about your dad, it's going to affect you."
But Mr. Anthony, who has met Ms. Clinton on several occasions over the years, suggested that she may someday have a tale to tell.
"I once said to her, 'You really should think about at least writing a memoir, if not for publication, at least leaving a record of a diary, some notes, your observations of the historical figures that you've met,' " he recalled. "And she sort of smiled and said, 'Well, you know, maybe.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chelsea Clinton, who will graduate today from Stanford University, attended a religious service yesterday on campus. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and former President Bill Clinton joined in applause at the service. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); WRITERS (71%); POLITICS (70%); HISTORY (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (63%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (62%); PEACE PROCESS (53%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%) STANFORD UNIVERSITY; OXFORD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%) CLINTON, CHELSEA; PURDUM, TODD S; CLINTON, BILL; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN); RAKOVE, JACK (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



456 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT IN EUROPE; 
Two Leaders Talk About a 'Productive' Exchange

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the statements and answers yesterday by President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia after their meeting, as transcribed by the Federal News Service Inc. Mr. Putin's statements were made through an interpreter.

President Bush
 President Putin and I have just concluded two hours of straightforward and productive meetings. We had a good discussion of our views of Russian-American relations and of the changing world at the beginnings of this new century. Our countries have common interests and we share great responsibilities. 
 My meeting with President Putin today is an important step in building a constructive, respectful relationship with Russia, a relationship that has the potential to benefit not only our two countries, but also the world. Russia is an important country with vast potential. When Russia and the United States work together in a constructive way, we can make the world a safer and more prosperous place. 
I enjoyed the opportunity to meet President Putin in person for the first time. I am convinced that he and I can build a relationship of mutual respect and candor. And I'm convinced that it's important for the world that we do so. More than a decade after the cold war ended, it is time to move beyond suspicion and toward straight talk, toward mutually assured -- beyond mutually assured destruction and toward mutually earned respect. As we work together to address the world as it is, not as it used to be, it is important that we not only talk differently; we also must act differently. We have great opportunities to cooperate on economic, commercial, regional and security issues. President Putin and I have agreed to launch an extensive dialogue about a wide range of issues that we can constructively address together. . . I invited President Putin to Washington this fall. He accepted. He invited me to Russia, and I accepted. And I look forward to the visit. We also agreed to continue our cooperation and work toward common solutions on important regional issues, from the Balkans to Nagorno-Karabakh to Afghanistan. And we discussed our common interests in developing the energy resources of the Caspian basin in a way that benefits all the countries of the region. . . .

President Putin
 . . . I think that we found a good basis to start building on our cooperation, counting on a pragmatic relationship between Russia and the United States. We compared our approaches in key areas, and once again we established our common ground. I want to return now to what the president said very unclear , that Russia and the United States are not enemies. They do not threaten each other. And they could be fully good allies. And taking into account the fact that the United States and the Russian federation as no one else, as no other country in the world, have accumulated huge amounts of nuclear weapons, weapons of mass destruction, we bear a special responsibility for maintaining common peace and security in the world, for building a new architecture of security in the world. 
The president and I have agreed that we're going to tell our ministers of defense, secretaries of defense, foreign ministers, to continue in this vein, to continue this discussion, without any pauses. Of course, we discussed the very difficult regional issues -- the Near East and Afghanistan and the Balkans. 
I have to say that this discussion showed that the differences in our approaches in very fundamental areas are much less than that which unites us. The differences in our positions, the positions of the two countries, really are not of a fundamental nature, a global nature, something which cannot be solved -- not at all. I think that it would be very incorrect for us to start forcing on issues and arguments and not take into account the very fundamental main concepts and issues in our relationships, which are the basis and the whole foundation of the relationship between the Russian federation and the United States of America. 
The president and I are united in saying that the economic ties between our two countries do not correspond to the potential of our two countries. The government of the Russian federation, the businessmen of both countries and the U.S. administration, of course, can do a lot more to support the effectiveness of our economic ties. And the president expressed that we need an additional impulse from our businessmen, and we will do everything possible to receive a very high-level business delegation of the United States to Russia. . . .

Questions and Answers

Q. President Putin, President Bush has said that he's going to go forward with his missile defense plans, basically with or without your blessing. Are you unyielding in your opposition to his missile defense plan? Is there anything you can do to stop it? And to President Bush, did President Putin ease your concern at all about the spread of nuclear technologies by Russia? And is this a man that Americans can trust?

MR. PUTIN -- Now, as far as the issue of anti-missile defense, the official position of the Russian government is known. . . .
Based upon today's dialogue, I've come to the conclusion and the impression that we might have a very constructive development here in this arena. At least the president of the United States has listened carefully. He listens to our arguments very carefully. But I think the specialists, as I have said before, have to sit down, have contact to identify the overall platform that we're going to work from and try to find a way together to solve these problems. Now, as far as the issues of proliferation and nonproliferation, I have to say that in our opinion this is a topic that's very, very closely tied to the ABM Treaty, because many other things are hooked onto this same string. . . .

MR. BUSH -- . . . I appreciated the opportunity to be able to talk about a new relationship. And we will continue these dialogues. The basis for my discussion began with this simple premise, that Russia and the United States must establish a new relationship beyond that of the old cold war mentality. The cold war said loud and clear that we were opponents and that we bring the peace through the ability for each of us to destroy each other. Friends don't destroy each other. People who cooperate do not have a basis of peace on destruction.
Our nations are confronted with new threats in the 21st century. Terror in the hands of what we call rogue nations is a threat. I expressed my concern, and so did the president, very openly, about nations on his borders and nations that can't stand America's freedoms developing the capacity to hold each of us hostage. And he agreed. I brought up concerns about Iran. And I'm hesitant to put words in the president's mouth, but he said he's concerned as well. And I think that accurately categorizes your position. And we'll work together to stop the spread of weapons of mass destruction. And I believe, as we go down the road, that we'll be able to develop a constructive relationship as to how to use our technologies and research and willingness to keep the peace in a way that makes the world more peaceful.

Q. -- Could you tell us anything about what you talked about the expansion of NATO?

MR. BUSH -- I said I thought that was a wise thing for NATO to expand, so long as nations met their obligations. . . .
MR. PUTIN -- I'm going to lay it out for you. . . .
Look, you understand that we're not -- our attitude toward NATO is not one towards an enemy organization. Of course not. And I'm grateful to the president of the United States that finally, from the territory of the United States, these words were heard. This is very important for us. We value this. When the president of a great power says that he wants to see Russia as a partner, and maybe even as an ally, this is worth so much to us. But if that's the case, then, look, we ask ourselves a question. Look, this is a military organization. Yes, it's military. They don't want us there. They don't want us there. It's moving towards our border. Yes, it's moving towards our border. Why? So this is what's -- this is the foundation of all our concern, not just to bring it in or not bring it in or accept NATO or not accept NATO. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (79%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (79%); COLD WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARMS RACE (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (61%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE INC (91%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); EUROPE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



457 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Calls Its $45 Billion Bid For Honeywell All but Dead 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN with ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

DATELINE: PARIS, June 16 

 BODY:
Jeffrey R. Immelt, president of the General Electric Company, pronounced its proposed $45 billion takeover of Honeywell International all but dead today, but said that G.E. would wait to receive a final judgment from the European Commission next month.
 Antitrust regulators at the commission are concerned that the combined companies would have too much power in the market for aviation products like jet engines and navigation equipment. They had asked G.E. to spin off its lucrative aircraft leasing division and sell off Honeywell divisions worth billions of dollars. But G.E. refused, submitting its final offer to regulators last week. 
 "We are very far apart as we sit here today," Mr. Immelt told reporters at the biannual air show here, "and fundamentally we are planning our future without Honeywell."
Mario Monti, the European competition commissioner, has tried to engage G.E. in further talks in the hope of reaching a compromise. On Friday, the European Commission invited G.E. to modify its proposal, even though the deadline for new concessions had passed late Thursday.
Today, Mr. Immelt said G.E. would no longer negotiate. Asked if the deal could still be pulled like a rabbit out of a hat, he replied, "I don't know what the rabbit would look like."
Should the deal fall apart, as now appears likely, it would be the first big American merger to be blocked solely by European regulators. This prospect has raised fears of retaliation and rising trade frictions between the United States and Europe.
But looking to the future, Mr. Immelt, who will succeed John F. Welch Jr. as chief executive and chairman later this year, took pains not to antagonize the commission. He noted that G.E. has a long-term commitment to Europe, where it generated $25 billion of its $130 billion in revenues last year and employs 85,000 people. He said the company was likely to make future acquisitions that also would come before the regulators in Brussels.
"The commission has been constructive," he said. "They've been open. We have no fight to pick with the commission."
On Thursday, Mr. Welch consulted with Andrew Card, the White House chief of staff, raising speculation that G.E. would use its considerable political influence to pressure Brussels into backing down. President Bush said he had discussed the case on his European trip. 
But today, Mr. Immelt dismissed the idea of pursuing this political course. "We are so far apart that this is not a place where we would use political pressure," he said.
In the wake of Mr. Immelt's comments, attention will turn to what will become of Honeywell. United Technologies, which was negotiating to buy Honeywell before being outbid by G.E. last fall, is already considering another attempt, according to executives close to United Technologies. However, Honeywell is bound by contract not to negotiate with others until the commission rules.
Asked why G.E. did not simply withdraw its offer, Mr. Immelt said Honeywell was deeply involved in the talks and had agreed with G.E.'s strategy. "We are being respectful of the process," he said.
G.E., however, cannot withdraw its acquisition proposal without Honeywell's explicit permission, which, according to an executive close to G.E., Honeywell has not given. 
Despite his praise of the commission, Mr. Immelt expressed plenty of dismay about its conclusions. Stopping short of saying that its motivations were political, he did say that they were "not economic."
He said the deal had passed muster with a dozen different antitrust regulators, including in the United States and Canada. But he pointed out that European regulators pay closer attention to the effect a proposed deal has on competitors, while their counterparts in Washington focus on the impact on customers.
He strongly denied that G.E. uses its size and market power to compel customers to buy more of its related products, a practice known as bundling and a major concern of European regulators. "The first time any of us ever heard of bundling was Nov. 1," Mr. Immelt said, referring to the week after the deal was announced. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MERGERS (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (76%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (71%); LEASING INDUSTRY (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (95%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (93%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (95%); HON (LSE) (95%); GNE (PAR) (93%); GEC (LSE) (93%); GE (SWX) (93%); GE (NYSE) (93%); UTX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (95%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JACK WELCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



458 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 6-17-01: On Language; 
The Politics Of

BYLINE:  By William Safire

 BODY:
Think of Ronald Reagan, and his phrases evil empire and there you go again and make my day come to mind, along with the derogations star wars and morning in America. 
 Think of George Bush the elder, and you have a thousand points of light and line in the sand and kinder and gentler nation, with his voodoo economics and read my lips, no new taxes tossed back at him. 
 Think of Bill Clinton, and - what? In his ascent to power, the vividly Carvillian it's the economy, stupid was indelibly associated with Clinton; in his descent, it was the relentlessly replayed sentence accompanied by his wagging finger. 
This department seeks memorable Clintonisms from friend and foe, but will begin today with a linguistic sleeper. A phrase coined by candidate Clinton in his campaign for the Democratic nomination has been gaining strength as the years flash by. 
His chief rival at the time, Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts, ran a TV spot claiming to be honest, truthful and unpolished -- no Bill Clinton, that's for sure." Asked in an Illinois cheesecake emporium in March 1992 about this and other charges about his character, Clinton replied: "I think that the American people can spot somebody that's on their side. . . . They're tired of the politics of personal destruction."
As president in 1994, Clinton lashed out at Republicans in Congress for blocking his proposals, charging them with "the politics of personal destruction and of legislative obstruction." This caused a Georgia member of the House minority, Representative Newt Gingrich, to call his attack "not the politics of personal destruction; it's the politics of self-destruction." After the G.O.P. upset that year, establishing itself as the majority in the House, Clinton slammed back with: "My job is not to stand in the way and be an obstructionist force. My job is not to practice the politics of personal destruction." 
He continued to use the phrase as an attacking defense, culminating in a short Rose Garden speech after impeachment in 1998: "We must stop the politics of personal destruction. We must get rid of the poisonous venom of excessive partisanship, obsessive animosity and uncontrolled anger." Nit-pickers who winced at the redundancy of "poisonous venom" were impressed with Clinton's alliteration in his peroration to "rise above the rancor." 
The phrase outlived the Clinton presidency. Last month, The Washington Post played on it in a headline above a column by George Will about the likely resistance to George W. Bush's proposals by a Senate controlled by Democrats: "The Politics of Personal Obstruction." When a phrase is familiar enough to take such wordplay, that is evidence that it is becoming fixed in the lexicon.
In coining phrases, the politics of has long been found useful. In his 1860 "Leaves of Grass," Walt Whitman sang of "the politics of Nature"; Upton Sinclair in 1918 excoriated the "politics of hypocrisy"; Aldous Huxley titled a 1963 book "The Politics of Ecology"; and Yippies in 1968 lolled back to enjoy with Timothy Leary "the politics of ecstasy."
In the politics of politics, Arthur Schlesinger Jr. led the way, beginning in 1949 with "The Politics of Freedom," followed by his "Politics of Upheaval" in 1957 and, five years later, "The Politics of Hope." This deeply impressed Vice President Hubert Humphrey, who in 1968 -- not an especially upbeat time in war-torn America -- was optimistic enough to hail "the politics of happiness, the politics of purpose and the politics of joy." 
Mr. Clinton, now practicing the politics of personal reconstruction, will undoubtedly be glad to learn of the studious interest in his phrasemaking. Send in those favorite Clinton locutions or persnickety characterizations to onlanguage@nytimes.com or to On Language, The New York Times Washington Bureau, 1627 I Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20006. 

Enchiladaville
 The governor of California, Gray Davis, after meeting with President Bush about the energy shortage causing rolling blackouts in the Golden State, said, "The big enchilada, the thing that really matters, above all else, is temporary price relief."
The governor is wandering in a no man's land between a whole enchilada and the big enchilada. A whole enchilada means "the entirety of a thing," its synonyms "the whole ball of wax," "whole nine yards," "whole schmear" and the etymologically mysterious "whole shebang." After Jimmy Carter won the presidency in 1976, the former California governor Ronald Reagan said that Democrats, long the majority party in Congress, could no longer claim that divided government impeded progress. "The Democrats cannot fuzz up the issue by blaming the White House," he said. "They've got the whole enchilada now."
The big enchilada is not a situation but a person. It is "the boss, the person of undoubted authority and influence, the one on top," and from a law officer's point of view, "the main target." In a taped Watergate conversation in 1973, Bob Haldeman says of John Mitchell, the former attorney general, "He is as high up as they've got." John Ehrlichman concurs, "He's the big enchilada." Queried about the coinage of this variant, Ehrlichman wrote me from jail a few years later: "I coined the phrase. I've cooked my own enchiladas for years. My California upbringing. Could have said 'big fish' or 'top dog' or 'big cheese,' I guess."
Governor Davis has been using big enchilada to mean, as he defines it himself, "the thing that really matters above all else" -- the ne plus ultra, the "acme, ultimate" or "most profound degree." In my view it confuses two distinct slang terms.
An enchilada is a tortilla into which is rolled a mixture of meat or beans and seasoned with a sauce made of chili, a hot red pepper (the chil in enchilada). The entire thing can be eaten by a person of great influence in the dark. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); POLITICS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LINGUISTICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); RONALD REAGAN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



459 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3288 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Plays an Aerial Wild Card 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
VISITORS to this year's Paris Air Show, which opens here today, will be able to walk around, inside, and through Boeing's Sonic Cruiser, a futuristic new passenger jet that would fly just shy of the sound barrier. They can marvel at the sleek new twin-engine plane, with its tapered fuselage, delta-shaped wing and unusual front stabilizer.
 At least they will have the illusion of doing so, for they will be looking at an elaborate hologram -- a perfect image, perhaps, for a plane that so far exists almost exclusively in the minds of Boeing executives and designers. The image alone, though, has been enough to add spice to the world's biggest aircraft rivalry. With it, Boeing has managed to steal the spotlight from its archrival, Airbus Industrie, on its home turf at the biggest aerospace event of the year. 
 "It will be neat," Alan Mulally, the always-chipper chief of Boeing's commercial airplane division, said of the hologram during a recent interview in New York. 
The Boeing Web site states boldly that the twin-engine Sonic Cruiser "will change the way the world flies as dramatically as did the introduction of the jet age." But the flickering, ghostlike hologram may not be the image the company wants to project. 
Since it stunned Airbus and the rest of the global aerospace industry in March by announcing its intention to build a new, faster plane -- and, on the same day, by canceling two proposed models that were not attracting orders -- competitors, partners, airlines and analysts have been wondering if the Sonic Cruiser is more than a mirage. 
Without doubt, a faster plane can be built. The question is whether the new Boeing jet can make money for airlines and meet strict noise and pollution standards.
"Can they do it?" said Roy V. Harris, the former assistant director of research and engineering at NASA's Langley Research Center. "I can't say that for sure right now. I think it will be a challenge." 
And there are questions about whether the Sonic Cruiser, an unofficial name coined by Boeing, will be as big a change for travelers as the company is advertising. The new plane is expected to fly only 12 to 16 percent faster than today's passenger jets. By contrast, the supersonic Concorde, built by the French and British in the late 1960's, can fly over twice as fast (though it has been grounded since a crash last summer).
The Sonic Cruiser is not yet even in its infancy. Boeing is not close to saying how many passengers it will carry, how far it will fly or what it will cost. Indeed, the company announced it at an earlier phase of development than other models and has put the tightest disclosure restraints in memory on engine makers, important collaborators on the project, several executives said. 
The timing and secrecy have caused some experts to question whether the new jet is a chimera intended to freeze the market just as Airbus, the only other maker of large passenger jets in the world, is filling out its product line with the new A380 superjumbo. The same day it announced the Sonic Cruiser, Boeing shelved a bigger version of its venerable 747, known as the 747X and intended to combat the A380, after failing to persuade a single airline to buy it. 
"Was this planned, or a reaction to the success of the A380?" wondered Byron K. Callan, an aerospace analyst at Merrill Lynch in New York. "Was Boeing headed down this path all along, or just playing a great game of poker?"
NOW that the game of making large passenger jets is down to two players, the stakes on each side have soared. Having committed $10 billion to building the A380, Airbus would have a difficult time developing a new jet to match the Sonic Cruiser.
Since its founding in the early 1970's, Airbus has clawed its way to the point where it now splits the market for new airplane orders with Boeing each year. But should Boeing set itself apart from Airbus by successfully introducing a faster plane -- the first in what it says could be a family of faster aircraft of different sizes -- it would win a bigger share of the $1.5 trillion that the world's airlines are expected to spend on new planes in the next 20 years.
For years, Boeing said that there was no need for a new superjumbo, that not enough airlines would buy it and that Airbus would never actually commit to such a project. Now, with the Sonic Cruiser, the positions have reversed. Airbus is saying that Boeing will never be able to build a faster airplane at a total cost that will appeal to airlines. 
"If there is such a thing as a free lunch, I am sure we are all interested," said John Leahy, Airbus's top salesman. "The question is, if the lunch costs something, then we have to look at what is being served." 
Mr. Mulally of Boeing said it was not bluffing. "At the most fundamental level," he said, "you would never do what we are doing if you never thought it would be built." 
But he is not ruling out the possibility that Boeing will change its mind. "You don't know how it is going to come out until it comes out," he said. The company will decide in the next year whether it will go forward with the airplane, he added.
The three makers of large jet engines -- General Electric, Pratt & Whitney and Rolls-Royce -- are also convinced that Boeing is serious. They began working with Boeing on the project about a year ago and say they are confident that the Sonic Cruiser can be built without having to make a technological leap. 
"We believe very strongly that we have the technology available to make it go," said Mark Sullivan, a spokesman for Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United Technologies. 
Several airline executives have also greeted the idea of a faster plane with enthusiasm. But it does not cost them anything to encourage Boeing, and they are years away from having to decide whether to buy the plane. 
Whether or not the Sonic Cruiser ever flies, Boeing has already won a remarkable public relations victory over Airbus. After nearly a decade of careful planning and some delays, Airbus has won 62 firm orders for the A380 from eight airlines, enough for its board to make the momentous decision in December to formally approve the project. Airbus now expects to have 100 orders by year-end. It says it needs to sell 250 of the jets to break even. 
The A380 will be the biggest commercial airplane ever built, carrying 550 passengers on two decks, compared with 413 passengers in the largest 747 today. But most important to Airbus, the former European consortium that recently consolidated itself into a single corporation, the A380 will end Boeing's monopoly on very large aircraft, which Airbus estimates will account for 22 percent of sales over the next 19 years. 
With the A380, Airbus will be able to match Boeing's product line model for model, from 100-seat, single-aisle aircraft all the way up to the 747. And it will have a jumbo jet to package with its other offerings to airlines and leasing companies, an option that Boeing had to itself for three decades with the 747. 
BUT since Boeing announced the Sonic Cruiser, nobody seems to care that Airbus is building the world's biggest airplane. This week's air show, which should have been the coronation of the A380 as the new queen of the skies, will instead be dominated by talk of the "baby Concorde," as some of the press has called Boeing's new plane.
"I think it is one of the public relations coups of all time," Mr. Leahy said, unable to hide his contempt. "They had a press conference to announce that they were canceling the 747X after going around to all the world's airlines for a year and a half trying to sell it and losing all the campaigns."
"My engineers tell me the Sonic Cruiser was designed by their P.R. department," he added. "It has gotten the world's attention. I am really impressed."
Before the Sonic Cruiser, and with its product line looking tired, Boeing appeared to have ceded to Airbus its reputation as an innovator. In recent years, Boeing has focused on introducing derivatives of existing models, like longer-range versions of its wide-body, twin-engine 767 and 777. That is much less costly and less risky than building an entirely new plane like the A380.
Now Boeing seems to be blazing a new trail. It has placed billboards in Paris and London with a picture of the Sonic Cruiser and the words "Flight to the Future." Mr. Mulally plans to give a talk at the show on global aviation trends, focusing on how a new, faster jet can transform travel. "This speed thing for us and for the traveling public is going to be more valuable than we know," he said. 
Wall Street analysts disagree over how the Sonic Cruiser and the A380 would compete. Boeing is talking about a plane that would carry 100 to 300 passengers, far fewer than the A380. The Sonic Cruiser would fly among dozens of cities, while the A380 is intended to link major hubs like London and Tokyo.
The first A380 is not expected to fly commercially until 2006. Boeing predicts that a Sonic Cruiser will not fly until 2007 or 2008. Even if the two do not compete directly, the prospect of a new Boeing model could slow the A380's sales momentum. Airline executives may now wonder if they should hold off on committing to a new, larger airplane from Airbus to see what Boeing creates. The promise of a new class of aircraft may give them added pause, because they never want to see competitors flying something that they are not.
Nowhere is this more crucial for Boeing than in Japan, the last major market where it has been able to keep Airbus at bay. Japan Airlines is Boeing's single largest customer for the 747, and Japanese carriers also fly large numbers of 767's and 777's. 
Airbus has been pushing hard to gain market share there, and has been trying to find a Japanese partner to share some of the risk in building the A380. But its best prospects, like Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, are already large suppliers to Boeing. 
Japanese airlines that might have been seriously considering the competing Airbus A330 as a replacement for their aging Boeing 767's may now wait to see what becomes of Boeing's new plan. The smallest models of both the A330 and the 767 have about 250 seats -- about the same number that Boeing says will be in the first incarnation of the Sonic Cruiser.
And potential Japanese partners for the A380 must decide whether they want to give up an opportunity to participate in the new Boeing jet. 
The A380 and the Sonic Cruiser illustrate neatly a philosophical dispute between Airbus and Boeing that has grown wider in recent years. Boeing is convinced that deregulation will increasingly fragment global aviation, allowing more direct flights between cities, which is what it believes most travelers want. That will feed airline demand for smaller jets that can fly farther and faster.
As precedent, Boeing cites what happened in the trans-Atlantic market in the last 20 years. After the four-engine 747 was introduced in 1969, many airlines began flying it between the United States and Europe but soon found it was too big and too expensive to fly. And as aviation restrictions were relaxed, Boeing's smaller, twin-engine 767 opened direct service for dozens of secondary cities in the United States and Europe. 
"People don't need bigger airplanes," Mr. Mulally said. "The only reason the airlines were asking for a 747X was so that they would have something to compare to the A380. They don't want either." 
Airbus agrees that fragmentation will increase as deregulation spreads from Europe to Asia in coming years. But it is equally convinced that the expected large increases in passenger traffic and a dearth of new airport construction will require a superjumbo to carry more passengers between congested hubs. 
It says that it has also looked at building a faster plane over the years -- but that it is not considering one now. "We have seen no great change in the laws of economics and physics that have given us any hope," said Philippe Delmas, an Airbus executive vice president who is a close adviser to Noel Forgeard, the chief executive.
THE technical difficulties of building high-speed aircraft have been well known for decades. In the United States, research on civilian supersonic flight was financed by NASA in the 1970's but lost momentum during the energy crisis, as the focus shifted from improving speed to improving efficiency.
But the United States government continued to provide financing, giving nearly $2 billion over many years to Boeing, McDonnell Douglas (which Boeing bought in 1997), G.E. and Pratt & Whitney to develop supersonic passenger jets. That work was finally abandoned in 1998 by Boeing, which said there was no hope of overcoming the economic and environmental hurdles raised by a commercial supersonic transport anytime soon. 
Flying at supersonic speed generates tremendous heat and stresses that must be absorbed by the fuselage and wings. The engines must be much more complex, and the sonic boom and engine roar raise serious environmental obstacles. 
Because of these issues, the Concorde never found commercial success. Only 14 were put into service. British Airways and Air France, which received the planes from their governments at no cost, still could operate them only by charging elite travelers superpremium fares. In any case, the Concorde does not come close to meeting today's noise standards and can fly at supersonic speeds only over water. 
Boeing now says it can avoid many of these difficulties by building a plane that remains just below the sound barrier. Today's commercial jets cruise at 80 to 85 percent of the speed of sound, which is about 660 miles an hour at high altitude. With the Sonic Cruiser, Boeing hopes to raise that to as high as 98 percent. 
But the obstacles are still large. Air resistance rises sharply the closer an aircraft gets to the speed of sound, rapidly decreasing fuel efficiency. Shock waves and unpredictable air flows also make jets particularly difficult to fly just below the barrier.
The engine makers say they can adapt much of the technology now used to power Boeing's wide-body 777. But the 777 engines, which have the same diameter as a 737 fuselage, will have to be shrunk to fit into the streamlined wing of the Sonic Cruiser. That will make them much louder, presenting Boeing's designers with a challenge in meeting current noise standards. 
But Mr. Mulally said that the double delta-shaped wing that Boeing is proposing will actually help reduce noise. He predicted that the Sonic Cruiser would not only meet current restrictions, but that it would also set a new standard for quieter jets.
Still, will all the trouble and expense be worth it? Boeing estimates that the Sonic Cruiser will save about an hour for every 3,000 nautical miles flown. Everyone agrees that passengers want to spend less time flying, but it is not clear that the Sonic Cruiser would be enough of a time saver that they might pay higher fares for it.
The longer the trip, of course, the more time is saved. Boeing has said the new jet could fly up to 10,000 nautical miles, or from New York to Jakarta, Indonesia, farther than any passenger jet operating today. 
"Today we rely on first-class and business-class passengers to pay for the airplane," Mr. Mulally said. "What if you could differentiate service in a new way -- faster, higher, a smoother ride, above the weather?" 
FUEL efficiency is another issue. The farther a plane flies, the more fuel it must carry. But that makes the plane heavier, which means that still more fuel is needed. Fuel accounts for half of a 747's weight at takeoff. 
The pressure will be on Boeing and the engine makers to squeeze every ounce of efficiency out of the new plane's design, because even a small increase in drag or decrease in fuel efficiency can add up to a significant loss of range over a long flight. 
Mr. Mulally said his goal was to make the Sonic Cruiser burn about 20 percent more fuel than a 767. The extra cost, he said, would be countered by the new plane's increased speed and range. Flying faster, of course, will let planes and crews make more trips, thus saving money. 
At certain times of the year, for example, Northwest Airlines must operate three aircraft on its route from New York to Tokyo because the return trip must begin before the first plane arrives from New York. A faster plane could cut the number of aircraft on the route to two. 
Increasing range would open direct routes, like London to Sydney, that now require a connecting flight, Boeing says, saving even more time for passengers and money for airlines.
Boeing may also be able to lower the total cost of the plane by building it efficiently. Many of its existing models were started decades ago and are relatively expensive to make. A new model could incorporate the latest advances in manufacturing. 
Several airlines have been enthusiastic about the prospect of a new plane. Richard Branson, the chairman of Virgin Atlantic, said it expected to order up to six of the aircraft. Donald J. Carty, the chairman of AMR, the parent of American Airlines, said he was interested in buying the first 30 off the assembly line. The chairmen of Delta Air Lines and UAL, the parent of United Airlines, also expressed interest.
But a closer look indicates that the commitments are highly conditional. "There are as many questions as there are answers," said Timothy J. Doke, a spokesman for American. "But at this point we are very intrigued by the concept and very supportive. We would very much like to be on the ground floor of this." 
Told of Mr. Mulally's goal of 20 percent more fuel consumption than a 767, Mr. Doke was surprised. "If they can't bring that down, it would lessen some of the productivity benefits," he said. "Our team members would be encouraging them to sharpen their pencils and bring the operating cost down" to where it would be 7 to 10 percent cheaper to operate than a comparable current jet. 
Mr. Leahy, the Airbus executive, said that every new commercial airplane introduced in the last 20 years has had a lower operating cost than what came before it. "What the world's airlines are telling us is that economics are very important," he said. "You've got to have the lowest seat-mile cost." He predicted that after the hoopla over the Sonic Cruiser died down, Boeing would ultimately drop the idea and offer a smaller version of the 777 to replace the slow-selling 767. 
BOEING does have a reputation in the industry for being fickle about new airplane projects. It announced a highly fuel-efficient jet in the early 70's called the 7J7, only to cancel the program a few years later when oil prices dropped. In the early 1990's, it talked to the major Airbus partners about building a new superjumbo to replace the 747, only to back away. Since then, it set to work on two bigger versions of the 747 but canceled them, too. 
Presented with that record, Mr. Mulally said, "I think it is fabulous." Boeing, he said, is a customer-driven company that must be nimble. "What a neat thing it is to look at your customers and the market and make your investments accordingly," he explained. "The fact that Boeing is listening and is flexible is a great thing." 
This time, however, Boeing has created so much general interest in the Sonic Cruiser that canceling the project could backfire. "They are walking a thin line," said one aerospace executive who spoke on condition of anonymity. "They really could hurt their reputation if they pull the rug out from under this in two years' time." 
But Mr. Mulally said he was forging ahead. By year-end, he expects to announce a group of airlines that will work with Boeing to define the specifications of the new airplane. 
"Are we serious about it?" he said. "Absolutely. Can it be done? Absolutely."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Noel Forgeard is chief executive of Airbus Industrie, the European company that is Boeing's only rival in the market for big passenger jets. (Associated Press); Alan Mulally, chief of Boeing's commercial airplane division, is delighted that its plans for a new, faster airliner have generated a publicity whirlwind. (Duncan Livingston for The New York Times)(pg. 11); Boeing's Sonic Cruiser, shown in an artist's rendering, has been stealing the thunder at the Paris Air Show this year from Airbus Industrie's planned A380 superjumbo jet. (pg. 1) Chart: "Accomplishments in the Air" 1903 -- The Wright brothers achieve manned flight in Kitty Hawk, N.C. 1914 -- Igor Sikorsky inaugurates the Grand, the first four-engine aircraft, designed and built in Russia. 1919 -- International commercial pass-enger service begins between Paris and Brussels. 1927 -- Lightweight, air-cooled engines make possible bigger, faster planes, like Charles A. Lindbergh's Spirit of St. Louis, left. 1929 -- James H. Doolittle is the first pilot to complete a flight using only instruments and radio to guide him. The artificial horizon, which shows the plane's angle relative to the ground, was designed with Mr. Doolittle's help. 1929 -- The first electro-mechanical flight simulator, the Link Trainer, left, revolutionizes pilot training. 1931 -- Frank Whittle designs and patents the first jet engine in Britain. Hans von Ohain later builds the first operational jet engine in Germany. 1935 -- The Douglas DC-3, right, is introduced. Seating 21 passengers, it is the first airplane to make a profit carrying passengers instead of mail. It accounts for 90 percent of air traffic by 1940. 1936 -- Pan American Airlines, the first transoceanic airline service,is established by Juan T. Trippe. The business is made possible by the Boeing 314 flying boat. It carries 74 passengers and has a lounge, dining room and bridal suite. 1940 -- Boeing makes the Stratoliner, left, which has a pressurized cabin that allows it to fly at 20,000 feet, lessening the effect of turbulence. 1952 -- Britain's DeHavilland Comet is the first jet airliner put into passenger service. Two accidents, attributed to metal fatigue, lead airlines to cancel orders, allowing United States companies an opportunity to gain customers. 1957 -- Boeing's 707, right, fills the void left by DeHavilland and airlines quickly adopt the jet and the Douglas DC-8. 1958 -- More than one million people cross the Atlantic by air, surpassing the number of steamship passengers for the first time. 1969 -- Wide-body airliners are introduced with the Boeing 747. The larger airliners make international air travel more affordable. 1969 -- A British-French consortium begins supersonic service with the Concorde, left. 2000 -- With 50 orders from airlines in hand, the board of Airbus decides to go ahead with the A380. It seats one-third more passengers than the 747. 2001 -- Boeing says it will develop the next generation of airliners. The Sonic Cruiser will travel 12 to 16 percent faster than jetliners now in service. (Source: Aerospace Industries Association)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); NOISE POLLUTION (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRLINES (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; JET ENGINES AND JET PROPULSION; NOISE; AIR POLLUTION 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); AIRBUS SAS (84%)

ORGANIZATION: AIRBUS INDUSTRIE; BOEING CO 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%) SIC3721 AIRCRAFT; SIC3728 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (73%) ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (75%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (59%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); GERMANY (78%); BELGIUM (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



460 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: The Global Warming Gap 

 BODY:
President Bush's overseas trip has done nothing to narrow the gap between his administration and Europe on global warming. For their part, the Europeans accept the overwhelming scientific consensus that man-made gases are heavily responsible for the warming of Earth's atmosphere. They believe that the consequences are likely to be calamitous unless the industrialized world commits itself, as it did in the Kyoto accord of 1997, to binding reductions in greenhouse gases. Yesterday, they also agreed to push ahead with ratification of the accord by the end of the year. Mr. Bush questions the science, insists that mandatory reductions in emissions will undermine the American economy and overstates the obstacles presented by developing nations like China. 
 The two sides agreed to keep talking. But if this pledge is to amount to anything, everyone will need to work harder, including the Europeans. Mr. Bush has taken most of the criticism in the global warming debate, and rightly so. But Europe's behavior has not been spotless. Europe is able to hold the moral high ground in part because of several fortunate (and rarely acknowledged) events that make its task of meeting the treaty's mandates much easier than America's. For example, post-reunification Germany achieved huge reductions in carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, simply by closing inefficient industries in the former East Germany. Similarly, Britain achieved significant cuts when Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher essentially shut down the coal mines and greatly increased the use of cleaner natural gas. 
 Meanwhile, Europe has been reluctant to embrace various mechanisms that might ease the economic burden on the United States. At the last ministerial meeting in the Hague, Europe resisted when the United States asked that countries be allowed to win credit for carbon "sinks," including reforestation projects, which draw carbon dioxide out of the air through photosynthesis. And until quite recently, Europe has not been enthusiastic about emissions trading, a market mechanism favored by Americans that has been shown to greatly reduce the costs of emissions control.
Still, there is little doubt that when it comes to taking real steps to reduce carbon emissions at the source -- from cars, power plants and factories -- European governments, especially Britain and Germany, far outshine the United States. They have negotiated agreements with industry, imposed so-called eco-taxes and made serious investments in energy efficiency. In the United States, by contrast, nearly all the progress has been made by private companies. The automobile industry, for example, is pouring significant research money into more fuel-efficient hybrid engines (while continuing to profit from their gas-guzzling S.U.V.'s). And a growing number of big multinational corporations, encouraged by advocacy groups like the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, have agreed to make major investments in reducing carbon emissions. 
But these are isolated efforts. Overall carbon emissions in the United States continue to rise, and Mr. Bush's policies are likely to make matters worse. Despite his promise to search for "cutting edge" solutions, his budget for 2002 actually cuts several important energy efficiency programs, while his new energy strategy relies heavily on finding more of the very fossil fuels that contribute to warming. Equally important, he has shown little appetite for the leadership role the United States must take if this problem is ever going to be solved.
Indeed, he seems more concerned with finding reasons why the United States should not lead. One of his favorite gripes about the Kyoto accord is that big developing countries like China are not covered. It is true that the warming problem cannot be solved without China's participation. But China is actually making surprising reductions on its own, partly by modernizing dirty coal-fired power plants.
Furthermore, it has always been generally understood that the industrialized nations would move first, the developing nations later. That was exactly the sequence adopted by the Montreal Protocol of 1987, which has been successful in controlling the chemicals that threatened the ozone layer. Then, as now, the feeling was that the richer nations should move first because they have the expertise and because they carry a heavier moral obligation. After all, most of the man-made carbon sitting in the atmosphere was generated by them. But these ethical nuances, and much else about global warming, seem lost on the present White House. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (76%); HYBRID VEHICLES (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); POWER PLANTS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (66%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); MINE CLOSINGS (65%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); REFORESTATION (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); COAL MINING (50%) WEATHER; EDITORIALS; CARBON DIOXIDE; GLOBAL WARMING 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (53%) EARTH (92%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2001 



461 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Patents; 
Inventors focus on making credit cards easier to carry and easier to process.

BYLINE:  By Sabra Chartrand 

 BODY:
CREDIT card companies are aggressive in luring new card holders, offering incentives to persuade people already carrying a wallet full of cards to use one creditor's card over another's. They dangle lower interest rates and frequent-flier miles. Now some inventors have recently won patents that may make some of the cards themselves easier to handle than others.
 Kurt Campisano, who is from Philadelphia and works for First USA Bank, won a patent for a credit card that a user does not even have to keep in his wallet. 
 Mr. Campisano's invention links the card to a holder's phone number. The phone number is assigned as an "alias," Mr. Campisano writes in his patent. Then the card holder chooses a PIN, or personal identification number. That number remains known only to the card holder, like PIN's for a bank machine card. 
So when the credit card holder leaves home without it, it won't matter.
To make a purchase, the owner of the credit card would simply enter his 10-digit telephone number and PIN into the kind of credit card reading device already in use among merchants. Once the numbers are entered, the credit card company would retrieve the holder's account number, charge him for the purchase and authorize the sale. The card holder would still have to sign a receipt.
Mr. Campisano says his invention is intended to be used at any retail outlet, over the phone for catalog sales, and on the Internet. With phone sales, the telephone and PIN numbers would be punched in with touch-tone buttons.
He said it would also diminish the risk of losing a credit card or having it stolen by carrying it around all the time. He received patent 6,227,447.
For those who do not mind carrying cards but would prefer fewer of them, a Hawaii inventor offers the credit card-drivers license.
James Yang won a patent for a drivers license with conventional picture, address and identifying information, like height and weight. But the card also bears a credit card logo and the name of the bank or financial institution that issued it. It gives the holder's Social Security number, too, and an embossed credit card number and expiration date.
On the back of the card, next to the place for a signature, is a magnetic strip embedded with data about the credit card so merchants can process the card and verify it.
Though his invention is designed to offer consumers another convenience, Mr. Yang does not say in his patent how financial institutions and state licensing agencies would be enticed to join forces, considering they serve different purposes and have different eligibility requirements.
Mr. Yang does note in his patent that the card could be used in automatic teller machines. And he suggests that when stopped by the police for a traffic violation, the holder could charge any fine to his credit card on the spot. Mr. Yang received patent 6,224,109.
Cards that are used a lot or carried in back-pocket wallets are sometimes bent. Then the magnetic strip can't be read, or the damaged card is confiscated by a cash machine.
That is because the deformed card will not travel over a tiny ramp inside most credit card readers and processing machines.
James Johnson, from Lake Forest, Calif., has patented the addition of a curved deflector to the inside of standard credit and smart card reading machines. Normally, a card is inserted through a slot and the leading edge travels up a tiny ramp. If the card misses the ramp, it just keeps going. It does not stop at the point where other cards are processed and then spit back out. Since the machine cannot return the card, it keeps it (defying the impression most people have that such confiscation is malevolent).
In his invention, the deflector acts as a kind of guide. When a bent card is inserted, the deflector catches it. Its curved surface forces the card onto the little ramp so it will follow the correct route to the stopping point. He got patent 6,230,977. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (93%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); PATENTS (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAILERS (87%); LICENSES & PERMITS (85%); DRIVERS LICENSES (85%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (76%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (67%); SALES & SELLING (65%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%) CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; DRIVERS LICENSES 

COMPANY: FIRST USA BANK NA (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: CHARTRAND, SABRA; CAMPISANO, KURT; YANG, JAMES; JOHNSON, JAMES (INVENTOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



462 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Brazilians Argue Over Digital TV Format

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER L. RICH 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, June 17 

 BODY:
If Brazil's television broadcasters have their way, even a traffic jam on the highway will not keep commuters from missing a minute of the evening soaps. 
 But critics of the plan, inside and outside Brazil, say the broadcasters are pursuing an unrealistically expensive dream that will leave TV viewers stranded and leave Brazil outside the hemisphere's technological mainstream. 
 Later this year, the Brazilian telecommunications regulatory agency, Anatel, is expected to select the digital technology standard for the future of broadcast television in Brazil. The broadcast industry has thrown its tentative support behind a relatively untested Japanese standard, in part because it is supposed to be particularly good for mobile service. The broadcasters' trade group, the Brazilian Association of Radio and Television Broadcasters, would like to expand audiences with a signal suited for reception in buses and cars. 
The broadcasters' endorsement has generated criticism within Brazil and among proponents of the United States and European standards that are also under consideration. The format decision will influence which foreign manufacturers will be in a position to compete in Brazil -- and which foreign markets might be able to use equipment produced in Brazil.
But much of the talk is couched in terms of what is best for the Brazilian public. Critics of the untried Japanese format say the technology will be so expensive that it may make TV sets too costly for the bulk of Brazilian households.
"When you think about it, what else matters than making this affordable for the people of Brazil?" said Robert Graves, chairman of the Advanced Television Standards Committee in Washington, which developed the digital television standard in the United States. As American broadcasting has been slow to move into digital technology, American equipment makers are eager to expand the business by finding export markets for their digital TV gear.
In their field tests, commissioned by Anatel, the members of the broadcasters' group concluded that the Japanese system had both the best fixed reception for normal living room television sets and the most technologically advanced mobile capabilities of the three standards. 
But the American standards group and some engineers in Brazil have questioned the methodology of the fixed reception tests, saying that the committee used too small a sample and did not gather data under equal conditions for all the systems. Subsequent tests in the United States and elsewhere, they say, have shown that the United States system has the best reception at a lower transmission strength than the other two systems, making broadcasts cheaper for local television stations. 
But the Brazilian broadcast group counters that the procedures for the tests were discussed in advance and approved by representatives of the competing systems. 
Despite the broadcasters' hopes for mobile television, there is doubt whether it will ever be a viable option in Brazil. Some engineers say the amount of power needed to project a television signal strong enough to be received through mobile devices inside cars and buses would overwhelm Brazil's already crisis-prone electricity grid. They also say that broadcasters would be sacrificing a series of stationary applications -- like high-definition television -- with no guarantee that the technology would ever be able to provide a quality mobile signal. 
Most experts agree that the technological arguments are only half the story for Brazil, which imported $6.5 billion in telecommunications equipment last year. 
"One thing we can be sure about is that there will be really good technological solutions in whichever of the three systems Brazil chooses," said Ethevaldo Siqueira, a telecommunications consultant who has been following the selection process closely. "What we need to know is how to arrive at the end of the decade with the most local manufacturing, the most local research and the lowest price for the consumer."
At the recent meeting of the Free Trade Area of the Americas in Quebec, government officials from around the hemisphere discussed the idea of one hemispheric digital TV standard as a way not only to ensure hardware compatibility throughout the area but also to create economies of scale to force down the price of all equipment.
Because the Japanese model is not expected to be rolled out in Japan until 2003, Mr. Siqueira and others say that if Brazil selects that standard, consumers could face higher equipment prices and manufacturers here might be isolated from potential export markets in the Americas. 
Mr. Graves of the United States standards group made a similar point. "We are two and a half years into this transition, and we have already reduced the prices of all these products phenomenally, more than 50 percent in the case of receivers," he said. "Brazil can step in and take advantage of our market economies." 
But Luiz Tito Cerasoli, a director at Anatel, said the government was not necessarily weighing economic and political factors. 
"We are working at the level of defining the standard for Brazil," Mr. Cerasoli said. "Obviously, the integration of the hemisphere would be interesting. But if there is one standard that is better than the other, for us the decision is going to be what is best for Brazilian society."
For consumers like Elizabeth Nakagawa, a 41-year-old speech therapist with two young children, the advent of digital television will not necessarily be a welcome change -- if it means buying an expensive new TV.
"I guess I'll buy one when I have to," she said. "But if I had to choose between spending $1,000 on a digital television or taking my children to Disney World, I'm taking my children to Disney World."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Elizabeth Nakagawa of Sao Paulo said she would buy a new television set if she had to, but that if she could choose between spending $1,000 on a digital TV and taking her children, Crystal, left, and Victor, to Disney World, she would pick the vacation. (Angela Prada for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (93%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); MOBILE MEDIA (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (73%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (73%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%) TELEVISION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DIGITAL AND HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION; TELEVISION SETS 

PERSON: RICH, JENNIFER L 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (91%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



463 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
EBay's entry into the market for assisting small companies poses challenges for rivals.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
FOR companies looking to sell e-commerce services to small businesses, last week may well be remembered as a turning point. The shift began on Monday, when eBay announced it was stepping into the market by selling easy-to-build Web stores and listing them on its site for $10 a month, starting today.
 It was not a welcome announcement for competitors, given eBay's already strong bond with small businesses, many of which rely on the site for the bulk of their sales. 
 But for two companies in particular -- Network Commerce, which offers Freemerchant, and Bigstep -- the eBay announcement was especially ill timed. Both are ending a two-year effort to beat the fee-based services with advertising-supported models. On Friday, in fact, Freemerchant became a misnomer, as the company began charging small businesses $25 to $50 a month for Web sites, e-mail accounts and other services it had previously given away to as many as 200,000 merchants. 
Freemerchant and Bigstep may face a particularly difficult task in converting freeloaders to paid subscribers. But analysts say that while eBay is well positioned to succeed, the company will not necessarily have an easy time of it either.
"It doesn't matter who you are," said Ray Boggs, an analyst with IDC, a consulting firm. "The environment in this category has gotten a lot more severe than we expected."
Mr. Boggs's comments might apply to just about every e-commerce category, of course. But the story of this sector's difficult times combines an interesting mix of elements from other e-commerce underachievers.
Just as Silicon Valley became a magnet for get-rich-quick Internet schemers in the late 1990's, while many traditional companies all but ignored the Web, the low-cost, build-your-own services teemed with home-based e-tail moguls in waiting, while established small-business people kept the Internet at arm's length.
Mr. Boggs said that at the beginning of 2000, IDC polled small-business owners and found that just 12 percent were engaging in e-commerce, while an additional 12 percent said they planned to do so in the next year. And yet, of those who said they planned to roll out e-commerce sites, he said, just one in six had actually done so by 2001.
"It's easier to spend hypothetical dollars than slap money on the table," Mr. Boggs said. "And for some, it might be that e-commerce is too sophisticated, or quite possibly, irrelevant."
But such dark possibilities have not stopped new-economy behemoths like Microsoft, Yahoo and others from pursuing this market, which Mr. Boggs estimated to be worth $8 billion this year. With 24 million small businesses in the United States -- 11 million of them full-time operations -- "the market potential is huge," said Rob Solomon, who, as vice president of Yahoo Shopping, oversees Yahoo Stores.
Mr. Solomon said Yahoo Stores, which helps small businesses build and maintain Web storefronts for $100 a month, has grown to 13,000 subscribers now from 3,000 three years ago. He declined to say how profitable the service was, but, he said, "overall margins are very strong, and as we scale, we're seeing great efficiencies."
Serge Wilson, founder of Freemerchant, who left the company earlier this year, said that when he sold his company to Network Commerce last year for $2 million, the company's total spending was $55,000 a month. "And that was with 60,000 merchants, with all the services these other sites are offering," he said. "So I know you can provide top-flight services for a dollar a month."
According to Kneko Burney, an analyst with Cahners In-Stat, a technology consulting firm, the main expense for the Web-supplier companies "isn't the technology, but actually acquiring the customer and maintaining the relationship."
Ms. Burney, who estimated the market size for these services at slightly more than $100 million -- well below the estimate of IDC's Mr. Boggs -- said that until recently, the Web-enabled small businesses were skewed more heavily toward selling products than services. "Which isn't what things look like offline, where about two-thirds of the companies are service oriented," she said.
This year, Ms. Burney said, the online mix is starting to reflect the offline world, in part because services like Microsoft's Bcentral.com have been offering small businesses more features, like client appointment calendars and tools that help business owners analyze e-mail responses.
Ms. Burney also said eBay's entry into the market "will, if anything, lead to this market developing even further."
According to Bill Cobb, eBay's senior vice president for global marketing, the company had an "overwhelmingly positive" response to its announcement last week, although he declined to quantify the number of inquiries from prospective merchants.
In addition to the $10 monthly fee, eBay will extract a commission of 1.25 percent to 5 percent on each transaction and a listing fee of a nickel an item. Mr. Cobb would not say whether eBay thought it could make a profit on the service at those rates. "We set up the pricing so it makes sense as a standalone business," he said. "We think this is a price that will drive adoption. We'll monitor it as we go along."
As will competitors. Bigstep, which has 380,000 members, began switching over to a paid service earlier this month, with little expectation of retaining its current membership levels. "You do get a ton of attrition when you switch" to paid services, said Lucy Reid, Bigstep's chief executive.
Ms. Reid said she hoped to retain 12 percent of the service's heavy users. Given a profit margin "between 60 and 80 percent," she said, "if we do that, we'll be in very good shape, and we're on track to do that."
Bigstep has begun charging $10 a month for its lowest level of service, which permits businesses to create a Web site from a template. For $25, businesses get 10 e-mail accounts, among other functions, and Web site activity reports, including an analysis of where visitors are coming from.
For $35 a month, businesses get more sophisticated features. They can check how their sites fare on search engine results, and get more detailed reports on their customers' on-site behavior. Regardless of the service level, businesses pay $25 for a merchant credit card account, and $20 to list a product catalog.
Colleen Landaiche, who created a Web site for her business, HouseWerks.com, using the Bigstep service, said she would pay more than the $25 a month she currently pays. "I've saved thousands of dollars in brochures alone," said Ms. Landaiche, who is the sole proprietor and employee of the company, which builds bookshelves in Knoxville, Tenn.
Ms. Landaiche said she started using the service two months ago, after having abandoned another company that maintained her Web site for $25 a month. "I bought an ad on a local radio station last year," she said, "and on the weekend it ran, my site went down, so I blew $1,000 in advertising. They were down a lot."
Although her company brings in only about $1,000 a month now, Ms. Landaiche said she expected business to pick up after another radio ad begins today. "I really expect a lot of calls," she said. "I'll probably have to hire people to build the shelves. And it'll all be from the Internet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Colleen Landaiche, whose company builds bookshelves, says the $25 a month she pays Bigstep for her Web site is money well spent. (Amy Smotherman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (68%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: EBAY INC (93%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EBAY INC; NETWORK COMMERCE; BIGSTEP.COM

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (93%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (93%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%) SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES; 

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



464 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 940 words

PERSON: Leo Gerard 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Bringing a Workingman's Perspective to a Union's Helm

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE first question for Leo Gerard is what happened to the big, bushy, salt-and-pepper beard that made him look part Burl Ives, part Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn. In February, when he was sworn in as president of the United Steelworkers of America, the beard dominated his face.
 "I grow it every winter," Mr. Gerard said. "And I always cut it off in May. It's too hot to wear in the summer." 
 Mr. Gerard, 54, had a workingman's explanation for this tradition. While laboring in the transportation crew at a nickel smelter in his native Ontario, he concluded it was necessary to grow a beard during winter to keep his face from freezing.
Decades later, Mr. Gerard often harks back to his 12 years at the smelter, saying metal workers, now as then, must contend with the brutal impact of imports and recessions. 
After just 15 weeks in office, Mr. Gerard can boast of a major, although preliminary, victory to safeguard his union's members against the impact of imports. With 23,000 steelworkers laid off and 18 steel makers filing for bankruptcy since 1998, he played a major role in persuading the Bush administration to part from its free-trade views two weeks ago and announce a far-reaching investigation that could lead to tariffs that reduce steel imports and preserve steel jobs. 
His role, his goal, Mr. Gerard says, is to protect the interests of his union's 650,000 members, 150,000 of them working in the steel industry. A good phrase maker and fierce arguer, he has unionism in his blood -- his father was a nickel miner and union organizer who took young Leo to union meetings and sent him to a union-run summer camp where he learned to pole vault and hold forth on the benefits of social democracy.
Mr. Gerard comes across more blue-collar worker than labor royalty. For years he has climbed the union's ladder, prepping for this job, serving as director of the steelworkers in Canada, then as secretary-treasurer of the Pittsburgh-based union, before succeeding his best friend, George Becker, as president. 
Some critics accuse Mr. Gerard of crass protectionism for lobbying the administration to investigate steel imports, but he snapped at suggestions of protectionism, dismissing them as name-calling.
"Does protectionism mean it's wrong for us to want to have a strong industrial economy and to want our members to have as decent a standard of living as everyone else?" he asked. 
Sitting in the union's Washington office, he peppered his long, occasionally erudite answers with salty language. He thought of becoming an economics professor while attending college at night during his years at the nickel smelter.
His was not the uniform of a K Street lobbyist in Washington -- he wore a light charcoal shirt, dark, wide charcoal suspenders with a tie slung over his shoulders. He finally knotted the tie as he left for a meeting with Senator George V. Voinovich, Republican of Ohio.
Mr. Gerard has the good fortune of heading a union whose members are concentrated in battleground states like Ohio, West Virginia and Pennsylvania. Aspirants for national office ignore his union at their potential peril. Even though the steelworkers played a major role in lifting Al Gore to victory in several Midwest states last November, the Bush administration has given the union a hearing -- and then some.
Before announcing the steel investigation, the administration invited Mr. Gerard to meet with Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, the United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, and Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans. Mr. Gerard took eight rank-and-file steelworkers to the meeting so the cabinet secretaries could hear firsthand from those who said they were drowning under the rising tide of imports.
Mr. Gerard said: "I told them, 'I want you to see the human face of your inaction. I want you to see a 50-year-old guy who two weeks ago was able to feed his family and two weeks from now won't be able to.' "
His lobbying efforts paid off, with a boost from two Republican lobbyists hired by the industry, Ed Gillespie and Vin Weber. They reminded the administration that there are more than 300,000 steel industry retirees concentrated in the Middle West as well as in another battleground state, Florida.
Many free traders accused President Bush of kowtowing to the union to improve his re-election chances in 2004. But Mr. Evans said the administration was merely seeking to protect American workers and ensure fair trade.
Jon Jenson, chairman of the Consumer Industry Trade Action Coalition, which fights trade barriers, gave grudging praise to Mr. Gerard. "Apparently he's been effective so far," he said. "It's really an effort, though, to restrict supply and inflate steel prices. That will hurt steel users, American consumers and ultimately the American economy."
MR. GERARD was delighted by President Bush's decision to investigate steel imports. Mr. Bush could decide to impose tariffs on steel imports if the investigation finds that a surge in imports seriously hurt the industry, even if no unfair pricing is found. 
Sounding like a tough negotiator who always wants more, Mr. Gerard warned that the White House would be unwise to assume that steelworkers would suddenly embrace the administration because of this one move.
"On steel I'm cautiously optimistic, and the proof will be in the pudding," Mr. Gerard said. "On everything else, as Jim Jeffords said, the Bush agenda is extreme and radical. I'm offended by a lot of the stuff, like the tax cut. It's an obscene gift to the rich and powerful that risks undermining the government's ability to serve all Americans, especially the neediest ones, in the long run."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leo Gerard (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY WORKERS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); MISC NONFERROUS SMELTING & REFINING (89%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LOBBYING (75%); DISMISSALS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); NICKEL MINING (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); LIVING STANDARDS (60%) STEEL AND IRON; LABOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (84%) UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA 

GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; GERARD, LEO; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%)

CATEGORY: Labor 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



465 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1779 words

HEADLINE: A Fertile Farm Region Pays Its Jobless to Quit California 

BYLINE:  By EVELYN NIEVES 

DATELINE: IVANHOE, Calif. 

 BODY:
After decades of trying to cobble together a living in the Central Valley -- cleaning budget motel rooms, picking vegetables in the boiling hot summer, emptying bedpans for homebound elderly people and, lately, scraping by on a $616-a-month welfare check -- Lorrie Gedert decided enough was enough.
 She was broke, and three months behind in the $300 rent on her apartment, but leaving turned out to be a cakewalk. Tulare County, as Ms. Gedert, 36, learned from a flier that arrived in the mail with her assistance check, offers welfare recipients an extraordinary option: It pays them to move away. 
 Over the last three years, Tulare County has paid more than 750 welfare recipients like Ms. Gedert an average of $1,600 a family to move almost anywhere in the country. For Tulare, one of the poorest counties in the country, giving welfare recipients a one-way ticket out is one solution to an unemployment rate that wavers between 15 and 20 percent. 
Critics of the program, which has expanded to two other counties, say it shows that the Central Valley has resigned itself to entrenched poverty, and they fault officials for paying to move people without first securing them jobs at their chosen destinations. 
But Ms. Gedert has no complaints. Just two weeks after calling the program office, on June 7, she and her daughters, ages 15 and 20, were on their way to a new life, armed with nearly $3,000 in county-issued checks for the truck rental, gas, food and lodging for an 1,800-mile trip to Little Rock, Ark. 
"It just seems like it'll be a whole lot better there," Ms. Gedert said as she watched some neighborhood children and her 18-year-old son, who has enlisted in the Navy, load the last of her kitchen knickknacks into a 24-foot Ryder truck. "Anywhere," she added, "is better than here." 
While Ms. Gedert does not have a job lined up in Little Rock, she has connections. Her boyfriend, who moved there six months ago, works in landscaping and says he can get her a job doing the same. 
If that does not pan out, she said, she will follow up on what she saw on a visit there in May. Help-wanted signs were in 10 or 15 stores, she said, and there are always opportunities to work as a maid or a home-care aide. 
To officials here, the relocation assistance offers the best if not only way for the valley's unemployed, uneducated poor to progress, especially since the 1996 federal welfare bill put a five-year lifetime limit on welfare benefits. 
The program was expanded to Kings County, west of Tulare, in October, and to Fresno County, the heart of what is known as the Central Valley's San Joaquin Valley farm belt, in March. 
The rapid growth of the program says much about this large swath of California, long mired in poverty. While the Central Valley is the richest food-producing region in the world, it is also one of the poorest places in the country. Unemployment in the valley, with 5 million residents in 18 counties, averages about 10 percent, about three times the national average. In Tulare, the unemployment rate is 15 percent in the best of times. 
And many of the small farm towns in Tulare, which has a population of 368,000, and other parts of the valley, where virtually all the work is seasonal, have much higher unemployment, up to 50 percent. Tulare's labor pool of about 150,000 people includes 10,500 families that receive welfare.
While its green fields and ripening crops give Tulare a country beauty, much of its housing consists of modest single-family homes, boxy concrete apartment complexes and, along back roads, shacky farmhouses. 
More than a third of Tulare's residents receive some kind of public assistance, census figures show, and the figures in other counties, particularly in the southern end, are not much less. Many officials here will point out that if the Central Valley were a state, it would have the nation's most depressed economy. 
"We are giving hope to people who are facing close to starvation," said Frank Escobar, who manages Tulare's relocation program, known by its acronym, MOVE, or More Opportunities for Viable Employment. "We are really a relief valve to the large unemployment problem and the poverty of the Central Valley because families are moved and working full time, able to get off welfare, able to save enough money to start thinking about buying a house." 
Since the program began, Tulare County has moved welfare recipients to more than 40 states at a savings to taxpayers of about $3.5 million a year, says the program's employment supervisor, Karen Davidson. "And that's just for the welfare checks, and that's just in Tulare County," she said. "That doesn't include the other benefits, like medical, food stamps, assistance for their children, et cetera." 
Ms. Davidson said that 85 percent of the former welfare recipients (55 percent of whom are white, 35 percent Hispanic and the rest Asian and black) had found jobs where they relocated, at least for the six months that the program tracked them. 
"When there's enough permanent jobs in the valley," Ms. Davidson said, "we'll stop moving people out." 
A smattering of states, including Kentucky and Oregon, have also paid welfare recipients to relocate. But the Central Valley's program is the most elaborate of its kind. 
Perhaps in part because of the valley's poverty and swelling pool of willing workers, the relocation program has not met the sort of intense resistance encountered by big cities that have tried to push people off welfare rolls. But to critics like Joseph Penbera, an economist and chief economic adviser for Fresno County, the program sends a distressing signal that the valley lacks the initiative to solve its chronic unemployment and attract jobs.
"I remember when we had 9 percent unemployment in Appalachia in the late 60's -- it was 50 percent higher than the national average -- and it generated outrage and all kinds of roads and development programs," Mr. Penbera said. "In Tulare, unemployment is six times the national average and nobody is saying anything. There's a high degree of ineptitude that makes it difficult to change the status quo." 
Just why the Central Valley was left behind during the nation's great economic prosperity of the 1990's is open to debate. The New Economy passed over the valley without leaving so much as a tread mark. But blaming the seasonal agricultural labor market for the Central Valley's poverty and unemployment is simplistic, Mr. Penbera said. Technology has made farming more efficient, so that fewer workers are needed these days, he said. And the Central Valley's lack of investment in infrastructure has deterred companies from relocating here.
It is as if the Central Valley has flown the white flag, given up on ever trying to improve its lot, the economist suggested. 
"We need the roads and the connections to roads that will attract companies," Mr. Penbera said. "We also need training programs. Instead of relocating people, we should be training them. There are companies who are begging for skilled laborers." 
Other critics say the program should offer residents more than a few job leads and a check. Pablo Espinoza, director of the American Friends Service Committee's farm workers project in Tulare, said the county should secure jobs for people before they are sent out. 
"What happens if the promise doesn't come through?" Mr. Espinoza said. "What are you going to do in a new place, where you don't know anybody, with a family, and you don't have any money?" 
The program does require that its clients move where unemployment is under 5 percent, Ms. Davidson said. It also insists that clients have jobs secured if they move within California and awards up to $600 in incentives for those who find and keep jobs. Those who decide to move back must agree to repay the program for the relocation costs if they reapply for public assistance.
Clients of MOVE, who were referred by the program to a reporter to be interviewed for this article, had recently relocated and sounded blissfully happy. 
Belinda Hernandez, 27, who left Dinuba, a small farm town in Tulare, for Sparks, Nev., in October, said: "I love it here. I'm not going back. I didn't know anybody here, but I got through it, I did it." 
In Tulare, she had worked dead-end jobs for the minimum wage. She had waited tables, worked in a packing house and swept floors in commercial buildings. For a while, she also collected $200 to $300 a month in food stamps and about $400 a month in welfare, she said. 
"They had sent me a letter with my food stamps," she said of the MOVE program. "And so I decided, well, I'm going to try this." 
Her first few weeks were a bit rocky. The program had given her $2,700 for moving expenses and a job lead at America West Airlines in Sparks, but she turned the job down because of the flying demands and found work in one day as a leasing consultant to an apartment complex. 
"I left all my family back in California," she said, "and now they want to follow me here." 
Gloria Dickerson, 25, and her husband, Nathan, 27, moved from Visalia, Calif., to Ocala, Fla., in April with their daughter, Emily, 3, and their son, Drake, 1. 
In Visalia, the couple was on public assistance because of an accident Mr. Dickerson had suffered when he fell off a ladder while working at an animal shelter. They were receiving $350 in food stamps and $416 in welfare each month. But though the welfare department paid for her to get a high school diploma and an accounting clerk certificate, she could not find a job. 
They had already decided to move to Ocala, where her sister lives, when they learned of the relocation program. 
"We qualified and they got us going pretty quick," Ms. Dickerson said. "The MOVE program paid for the U-Haul rental, plus they gave us about $500 for hotel, food and gas." 
Her husband had a job as a welder waiting for him that her sister had found for him, and they are renting a mobile home in a park her sister owns. 
Ms. Dickerson is starting a job working for the county road department as a staff assistant, which requires some accounting, she said. 
"Everything is going really good," Ms. Dickerson said. "We've always been normal working people until my husband got hurt, and then one thing happened after another and we found ourselves on welfare. But now we are actually looking into buying a car, and in the past two years I would not have thought it possible."
Ms. Gedert planned to stay with friends in Little Rock until she could find a place of her own. The way she described Arkansas, "green and lush," it sounded more like Shangri-La than a state struggling with hard-core poverty. "I just know I'll stay," she said. "It's just so beautiful there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Goodbye, California; hello, Arkansas. Lorrie Gedert of Ivanhoe, Calif., packed recently for a move to Little Rock paid for by Tulare County in California's food-rich but job-poor Central Valley. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. A16) ChartWhile the Central Valley leads the state in farm production . . . Diagram of California showing the total value of agriculture production. Total value of agriculture production (as of 1999 in millions) . . . it also has some of the lowest per capita incomes . . . Diagram of California showing the income per capita. Income per capita (as of 1999 in thousands) . . . as well as the highest rates of unemployment. Diagram of California showing the unemployment rate. Unemployment rate (as of 2000) (Source: U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis, California Department of Food and Agriculture)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); TRUCK & TRAILER RENTAL & LEASING (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (66%) WELFARE (US); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; AGRICULTURE 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (59%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) TULARE COUNTY (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



466 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: In Albany, It's Not Begun Till It's Over 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 17 

 BODY:
Like almost every other deadline in Albany, the end of the legislative session on Wednesday is something of a fiction. Unless unexpected political shifts occur, lawmakers will go home without passing a budget, now 11 weeks late, or reaching agreement on most major bills before them.
 They know they will have to return to the capital sometime later this year to pass a spending plan. And if the past serves as any guide, the most important bills will either be rolled into the budget or will become bargaining chips in the budget talks between the governor and legislative leaders. The real end of the session comes when the budget is passed. 
 "In Albany, nothing really gets done until everything gets done," said Blair Horner, a longtime lobbyist for the New York Public Interest Research Group. "The budget negotiations often suck into it nonbudget issues that become trade items as part of it." 
Since a budget deal is not imminent, there is less pressure to find a middle ground. "People know that until you do a budget, there is still time," said one senior Republican staff member. "Why compromise now when you know there is more time, when you will live to fight another day?"
What is more, the acrimony over the budget has poisoned talks on other issues. "Things are testy," said Joseph L. Bruno of Rensselaer County, the leader of the Republican majority in the Senate. "There is a lot of contentiousness generally."
Mr. Bruno says he will send the senators home after Wednesday, though they will not officially adjourn and can return if a budget agreement is reached. The Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, says the Assembly will remain in session past Wednesday if talks with the governor seem to be bearing fruit. 
"We will stay in session as long as we are being productive," Mr. Silver said. "If we can work out agreements with the governor, the senators will be back."
Neither Mr. Silver nor Mr. Bruno, however, are predicting that deals will be reached this week on the bills that have dominated the session. Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, and Mr. Silver are still far apart on details of a bill to revise New York's mandatory sentences for drug crimes, commonly known as the Rockefeller laws. A measure aimed at improving women's health care is mired in a disagreement between Senate Republicans and Assembly Democrats about whether religious groups should be required to provide female employees contraceptives through insurance plans.
The Senate and Assembly have both passed bills lowering the blood-alcohol threshold for drunken driving, but they remain far apart on whether to include stiffer penalties for repeat drunken drivers. Both houses have also passed bills aimed at cracking down on insurance fraud, but negotiations are stymied over the Assembly's proposals for a rate freeze and a special insurance fraud prosecutor.
That is not to say that nothing will be passed over the next few days. The two houses and the governor have let it be known that they are very close to an agreement on banning the use of hand-held cell phones while driving, which polls show is a popular idea. They also have agreed to amend the so-called Son of Sam law, making it easier for crime victims to sue convicts who receive some financial windfall.
A raft of laws set to expire at the end of June are likely to be extended, aides to legislative leaders say. Among them is the loft law, which allows New Yorkers to live in commercial spaces, a program that provides health insurance to indigent children and the Quick Draw video lottery game. The two houses are also likely to extend a law that requires police officers to arrest anyone suspected of abusing his or her spouse or companion, though Senate Republicans are balking at the governor's proposal to include gay couples in the law.
The most important piece of legislation to be passed this week, however, may be an $8 billion emergency spending measure to keep the government operating for the next month. With this bill, the government will have passed, since April, emergency appropriations of about $30 billion, or a third of the governor's proposed budget of $83.6 billion. Yet these bills have not included any new programs or tax cuts the governor and legislative leaders want.
One big issue wrapped up with the budget is how to refinance the state's Superfund, which pays to clean up toxic waste sites when a polluter cannot be found or cannot pay. The fund has run out of money. The governor and the Assembly Democrats cannot agree on how much money is needed or on what cleanup standards should be enacted.
But the biggest sticking point in the budget has to do with school aid. In January, a state judge ruled that the state's school aid formula shortchanged urban students, failing to provide them "a sound, basic education" as guaranteed by the State Constitution. The Assembly Democrats, led by Mr. Silver, have seized on the ruling to justify an unprecedented $1.7 billion increase in education aid. The governor has appealed the ruling. "The governor can win his appeal but will never overturn the underlying facts," Mr. Silver said. "We are addressing the facts." 
The governor has proposed a $382 million increase in education aid, after four years of record increases. He also argues that his proposal to collapse several aid formulas into one and send most of the increase in aid to poor districts will solve the inequities the judge outlined.
But Mr. Pataki has also shifted the budget debate away from schools to the economy, saying the Democrats are proposing irresponsible spending increases in the teeth of an economic downturn. Mr. Silver has countered that the governor is underestimating revenues so he can save up a hefty surplus to spend just before next year's election.
The budget stalemate has frustrated efforts to pass other legislation. For instance, the governor's Republican colleagues in the Senate have passed several of his criminal justice bills, like ending parole for all felons. But those bills have run into a brick wall in the Assembly. 
"Over the past few years we have accomplished so much," Joseph Conway, a spokesman for the governor said. "The Assembly majority is blocking this progress because they won't do their job and pass a state budget."
On the other side, the Assembly has passed new campaign finance reforms as well as a package of bills aimed at conserving energy. Those have fallen into a tar pit in the Senate. 
Though the major issues have become entangled with the budget, lawmakers are expecting a welter of smaller bills to be passed this week. Scores of bills will be passed that give local governments the authority to continue collecting taxes and to take other actions. New York City, for instance, needs state approval for the tax package underpinning its budget. The city also wants approval to build a filtration plant in the Bronx and to lease a new stadium in Steeplechase Park in Coney Island to the Brooklyn Cyclones, a New York Mets farm team. The stadium opens on June 25.
And a few sleeping bills may become law with alarming suddenness, lobbyists say. Senator Bruno has signaled his interest, for instance, in a bill that would ban smoking in most restaurants across the state, breathing life into a measure that is expected to pass the Assembly. Another bill likely to pass would require the sellers of houses to disclose hazardous waste contamination, lead paint and other problems to buyers. 
Lobbyists for business groups and trade associations will also try to get dozens of other bills through the Legislature with little fanfare. For instance, a bill that would allow rental car companies to require customers to bear the cost of insurance for rented cars has sponsors in both houses and may pass. The state outlawed that practice in 1988 after it came to light that some rental car companies were overcharging for insurance, asking customers to pay exorbitant sums for "collision damage waivers."
"The lobbyists call the end of the session the Big Ugly," Mr. Horner, of Nypirg, said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno. (David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); INSURANCE FRAUD (84%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (84%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); WOMEN (78%); LOBBYING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (68%); INSURANCE (63%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); SENTENCING (60%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (60%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); RELIGION (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



467 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Laughing in a time of tears: High-octane Yellow Pages, where Lassie can seek advice.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
AFTER the gloomy economic news that emanated last week from Madison Avenue, a few laughs might be welcome. And that's what an agency known for cheeky campaigns delivers with its first work to promote the offline and online telephone directories of Verizon Communications.
 In a multimedia campaign with an estimated budget of $40 million that is scheduled to begin today, Deutsch Inc. in New York, owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies, is taking an offbeat tack to build awareness of and use for what the Verizon Information Services division now calls its SuperPages. 
 That retrochic brand name, evocative of Super Suds, Super Kleen and Super Poli-Grip, covers printed directories formerly known as Bell Atlantic's and GTE's Yellow Pages; an online directory and shopping service, SuperPages.com; and information available through personal digital assistants and mobile phones. 
Advertising for directories has long been infused with entertaining elements, primarily to entice customers into paying attention to a low-interest product and service.
The best-remembered example is a hilarious 1980's campaign by the former Chiat/Day agency for Nynex, now part of Verizon, known as "human cartoons."
The ads used zany vignettes to bring to life listings like "rock drills" (marines in formation dancing the funky chicken), "civil engineers" (a roomful of train conductors daintily drinking tea) and "furniture stripping" (a chair taking on the skills of Gypsy Rose Lee and shedding its stuffing, piece by piece).
The danger, of course, with such campaigns is that consumers will chuckle, then forget whom the smiles were brought to them by.
To avoid that, Verizon Information Services and Deutsch are seeking to imbed a simple, consistent message in the humor -- that SuperPages enables consumers to improve their lives by making more informed choices. This is summarized in the campaign's theme, "Better pages for better decisions," intoned by the Verizon spokesman James Earl Jones in commercials and emblazoned in print and banner ads and on posters.
"Our competition focuses on features and functions," said Marilyn Burrows, executive director for marketing communications at Verizon Information Services, based at Dallas-Fort Worth airport, "but we want to go to a higher place by focusing on life benefits."
The humor is "a fun way to make them feel they're smarter, in control," she added.
For instance, in an English- and Spanish-language television commercial, Lassie is shown being continually asked to rescue her young owner, Timmy, from one outlandish scrape after another: He is trapped in a burning barn, "snatched up by a twister," even "kidnapped by circus folk."
Lassie is next seen at a computer, using SuperPages.com to look up pet adoption services as Mr. Jones declares, "Decide to change your life for the better." At the end, her new owner has a far less arduous request, "Lassie, eat your caviar."
"One key insight our research showed was that everyone looked at the Yellow Pages as a source of information, and information is a commodity," said Adam Levine, executive vice president and brand director at Deutsch, known for off-center campaigns for brands like Ikea, Mitsubishi, Snapple and Tanqueray.
"Rather than using the product reactively -- you go to the phone book in an emergency, when you lock yourself out -- we thought: 'What if we could position ourselves as a proactive tool? We not only give you the information, but the information that helps you make a better decision.' "
That will also be the focus of a TV spot scheduled to appear in about a month, which shows the Three Stooges engaged in their usual attacks upon one another -- until Moe pauses in mid-eyepoke to look up family counseling services. The counselor helps them resolve decades of conflict and they share a group hug.
"We know it needs to really pop, be a real bullet," said Cheryl Van Ooyen, senior vice president and group creative director at Deutsch.
"It's no longer interesting," she said, "to tell people, 'Here's a book with everything in it' because now, they're surprised when something is not in the yellow pages. But to show Lassie using SuperPages to get the heck out of Dodge, it's how people should use the directory -- to make decisions to enhance their lives."
In radio commercials, Al Capone's life is enhanced when he avoids that famous conviction for income-tax evasion by looking up "certified public accountants," and a couple in ancient Rome are guaranteed a better vacation when they use SuperPages to avoid a trip to Pompei.
In a poster ad, a woman's day at the beach is about to be disrupted by a shark; SuperPages.com offers "ski resorts" as an alternate choice.
The campaign for SuperPages will be concentrated in 11 major markets, Ms. Burrows said, including Baltimore, Boston, Dallas, Los Angeles, New York, Philadelphia, Seattle and Washington.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As part of an effort to create brand recognition for Verizon's SuperPages, multimedia offspring of the Yellow Pages, Lassie considers her options beyond saving children from fire and ill weather. (Deutsch) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); YELLOW PAGES ADVERTISING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (88%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); INTERNET RETAILING (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (68%); ENGINEERING (67%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (65%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; DIRECTORIES; ADVERTISING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); YELLOW PAGES INCOME FUND (92%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); DEUTSCH INC (72%); AQUANTIVE INC (58%); SUPERMEDIA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); SPMD (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (66%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



468 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Collapse of Talks With AOL Could Imperil Microsoft
The collapse of talks between Microsoft and AOL Time Warner over bundling their software threatens consumers with having to choose between two competing online worlds and leaves Microsoft on a perilous course.
 In walking away from a stronger partnership with AOL, Microsoft is running the risk of another round of legal challenges related to its new operating system, Windows XP, and it is gambling that the opposition of AOL and its 30 million users won't hurt the system's introduction this fall. Section A. 

Airbus Denies It Opposed G.E. Deal
The chief executive of Airbus Industrie denied comments made by the vice chairman of Boeing that Airbus had lobbied European regulators to block General Electric's purchase of Honeywell. G.E. confirmed that Airbus executives supported the deal. C2.

Tax Law Contains Computer Benefit
A provision of the new tax law is meant to help people buy computers, software and Internet access for school-age children. The provision, sponsored by Senator George F. Allen, Republican of Virginia, is part of the expanded education savings accounts program. Earnings in the accounts are tax free if used for tuition, uniforms, transportation and other qualified expenses -- which, because of Mr. Allen's measure, include computer outlays. Despite the presence of America Online's offices in Virginia, a spokesman for Mr. Allen said the Internet-access part of the tax credit was not added at AOL's behest. C3.

G.M. Opposes Changes in Fuel Rules
The chief executive of General Motors said that the company would oppose not only any move to increase fuel-economy standards for automobiles but also any effort to tighten the definition under which vehicles are considered light trucks, which qualify for more lenient gas-mileage standards than cars. C6.

Talks Focus on Career Actors
The concerns of career actors, the ones who have carved out a living making $30,000 to $70,000 a year, are a focal point of contract talks between the unions representing 135,000 actors and the major studios. Over the years, actors say, both their initial pay and their earnings from reruns have declined. C7.

Dispute Over TV Format in Brazil
As Brazilian regulators prepare to select the digital standard for the future of broadcast television in the country, the broadcast industry has thrown its tentative support behind a relatively untested Japanese standard. That endorsement has generated criticism among proponents of the United States and European standards also under consideration. C3.

Rivalry Grows for Public Radio
National Public Radio is close to signing a deal to open a West Coast production and incubation complex just outside Los Angeles, with 40 to 100 staff members. It is clear that executives at NPR are reconsidering its future, in good part because of heightened competition. C7.

EBay Competes for Small Companies
Companies looking to sell e-commerce services to small businesses may have reached a turning point when eBay announced that it would sell easy-to-build Web stores and list them on its site for $10 a month. It was not a welcome announcement for rivals, given eBay's bond with small businesses, many of which rely on the site for a bulk of their sales. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C6.

A Humorous Tack to Sell Directories
In a $40 million multimedia campaign that is scheduled to begin today, Deutsch is taking an offbeat tack to build awareness of Verizon's offline and online telephone directories. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C8.

Talks Break Down for Publisher
Talks between AOL Time Warner and IPC Media, a British magazine publisher, have broken down after the two companies could not agree on a price, people close to the talks said. C5.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,623.64 down 353.36Nasdaq composite -- 2,028.43 down 186.6710-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.24% down 0.12The euro -- $0.8618 up 0.0111The dollar -- 123.08 yen up 2.39

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (87%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (87%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); LOBBYING (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); PUBLIC RADIO (62%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); AIRBUS SAS (85%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); BOEING CO (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (51%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (85%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (51%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



469 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: Buddhism Blooms Amid the Forests Of the Catskills; 
Ancient Cures for Modern Ills

BYLINE:  By TERENCE NEILAN 

DATELINE: LIVINGSTON MANOR, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Until six years ago, James Frechter rose at 9 each morning, put on a dark suit and the mandatory tie and took the subway to Wall Street to begin another long day as an associate lawyer with Stroock & Stroock & Lavan.
 Nowadays, he is up by 4 a.m. in the Dai Bosatsu Zendo, an hour before a young monk wakes the rest of the monastery by walking through the corridors clanging a hand bell. Mr. Frechter, now a monk who answers to the name Kigen, has by that time already donned a kimono and a thin set of robes and headed to a hall in the predawn darkness to lead fellow monks and visitors in zazen, or sitting meditation. 
 But Kigen, 36, did not need to move to Asia to live out his transformation. The monastery he has embraced is just three hours north of New York City. 
Major Buddhist centers have spread throughout the wooded hills and valleys of the Catskills. And, academics and others say, the Buddhist presence is steadily growing, both in the number of centers and in the increasing variety of their traditions. "The borscht belt has become the Buddhist belt," said Melvin McCleod, the editor of The Shambhala Sun, a leading Buddhist magazine.
The borscht belt was in fact well past its glory days when Dai Bosatsu, nestled under forested mountains and partly shaded from view by trees beside a large, clear lake, opened here in 1976. Soon after, a number of Buddhist centers followed in scattered areas across the Catskills, far beyond the heart of the belt, bounded roughly by Route 52 in the north and Route 17 in the south.
Kigen, raised in Forest Hills as a nonpracticing Jew, began his path to the Catskills in his mid-20's, when he realized that the stress of his job was leaving him far from satisfied.
"I was well paid but unhappy," he said recently, "and I visited countries in Asia where people had much less than I did but were contented with their lives." 
Now one of his duties at the monastery is to act as its business manager, concerned with daily finances as well as the monastery's long-term financial well-being. "But don't get the impression that life in the monastery is any kind of escape from the concerns of day-to-day life," he said. "It teaches us to meet life as it comes at us minute by minute and to use that as an opportunity for practice." 
Buddhism is hardly new to the United States, and a similarly diverse pocket of sanghas, or communities, flourishes, for example, in the San Francisco Bay area. But experts use words like hotbed and astonishing to describe the developments in the Catskills, where academics and temple residents say new centers have been popping up at an increasing rate in recent years. 
"If the world survives another 500 years, the Catskills will be a pilgrimage place for the United States and Europe," said C. W. Huntington Jr., an assistant professor of religious studies at Hartwick College in Oneonta who led a seminar last year titled "Buddhism in the Catskills." And large groups of these pilgrims now attending retreats and other activities in the Catskills also find people coming from Asia and Australia.
Some of America's most well-regarded and important Buddhist centers make their home in the Catskills, said Mr. McCleod, whose magazine is published every two months and is circulated throughout North America.
"Three places come to mind: the Zen Mountain Monastery in Mount Tremper, the Karma Triyana Dharmachakra in Woodstock and the International Dai Bosatsu Zendo at Livingston Manor," he said.
Many experts point to the mix of different schools and traditions -- from Japan, Korea, China and Tibet -- concentrated in one area as the most significant and unusual aspect of Buddhism in the region. 
"It's really wonderful and quite astonishing what's happening in the Catskills, particularly among Zen and Tibetan schools," said William K. McKeever, who began sitting meditation in the Tibetan tradition 33 years ago at Yale. 
"It's not a casual interest by those who go to the temples and monasteries," added Mr. McKeever, who recently left his executive position with the Asia Society in Manhattan to become president of the Deer Park Foundation, a nonprofit group focused on Buddhism in the contemporary world. "The Catskills have become a hot bed for people to sit on their cushions and actually practice meditation," he said. 
Other experts welcome what they see as a new level of acceptance that Buddhism seems to have attained. "When you have the Dalai Lama appearing in ads for Apple computers you know it's not considered so weird anymore," said Tendo Tim Lacy, 38, a monk at Dai Bosatsu. 
Guo-yuan Fa Shi, abbott of the Dharma Drum retreat in Pine Bush, said that just a few years ago, people would stare as he walked around New York City in his robes -- black in winter, gray in summer, brown for special occasions. But these days, he said, "people often bow to me and show more respect."
The Buddhists have certainly captured the respect of real estate agents. Frank Lumia, an agent in Delhi, about 40 miles north of here, says he prizes the Buddhists because of their commitment to the environment and because they buy and then renovate their properties. "They make excellent neighbors," he said. Merchants also attest to the economic boost provided by their new neighbors. The Zen monastery here, for example, looks to local farmers' markets when it has to feed upward of 100 people, and to the local Sam's Club for other supplies.
For although the centers' aims are spiritual, they are set up in the Catskills in part for down-to-earth reasons: land is relatively cheap and it is close to New York City. And the hills and forests provide the serene setting that Buddhists have always sought for contemplation. 
A number of the Catskills' Buddhist centers were established as country retreats for their main bases in the city, including those set up by Asian immigrants who wanted to preserve their practice and culture. New York City and the surrounding areas also provide a ready population to draw upon for new members, who, through donations and retreat fees, help to keep the centers going.
On July 4, Dai Bosatsu will celebrate the 25th anniversary of establishing a center on 1,400 acres that were paid for by Dorris Carlson, the widow of Chester Carlson, who invented the process that brought the world Xerox. The Carlsons had an interest in Eastern philosophy and religions. They also wanted to help transmit the Buddhist message, particularly the one taught by Eido Shimano Roshi, a Zen master. Dai Bosatsu's city base is a converted East 67th Street carriage house that was bought as a center for Eido Roshi by Mr. Carlson, who died four days after its dedication on Sept. 15, 1968.
Dai Bosatsu's Catskills building, modeled on a Zen temple in Kyoto, looks as if it was brought straight from Japan and simply dropped beside Beecher Lake. The Zen Mountain Monastery, a former Catholic and Lutheran center, on about 250 acres, was founded 20 years ago. Karma Triyana Dharmachakra in Woodstock, built on about 22 acres in the colorful and decorative traditional Tibetan style, opened in 1978. It is the North American seat of the Karmapa, the teenage leader of the Kagyu school, one of the four main branches of Tibetan Buddhism. The Karmapa fled Tibet for India in 1999, and his arrival in Woodstock is eagerly awaited as a major event.
Newer centers include the Dharma Drum retreat, opened in July 1997, but still a work in progress. It is part of a worldwide group based in Taiwan with a city center in Elmhurst, Queens. Perhaps the newest of all is the Sky Lake Lodge, which opened in mid-May in Rosendale, south of Woodstock. But getting a handle on the exact number of Buddhist centers in the region is like trying to solve a koan, the traditional riddle that Zen masters give their students to contemplate.
Jeff Wilson, the author of "The Buddhist Guide to New York," published late last year, listed 16 centers. But anecdotal evidence suggests that the number is closer to 25 or more. Other estimates put the number at 40. The short answer is that nobody really knows. There is no all-embracing Buddhist organization keeping count, and the sleepy hollows, winding dirt roads and forested, almost secretive acres of the Catskills seem designed to hide many such places from view. 
For Majo Sugimoto, 34, the road to Livingston Manor began in Vienna, where he was brought up as a Christian. He came to New York in 1989 to improve his playing as a jazz pianist and learned about Zen. In 1991, he went back to Vienna and, inspired by his Zen practice, he says, switched from studying music to psychology. He recently received a doctorate from the University of Vienna, combining his studies there with occasional retreats at Dai Bosatsu. 
On Thursday, he will be ordained at Dai Bosatsu as a monk, and will start his 1,000 days of training.
All of us have "questions that we have to answer before we die," he said. "Through Zen practice it might be possible to answer them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Catskills have become a haven for Buddhist centers like Dai Bosatsu Zendo, a Zen monastery. Majo Sugimoto, above, will be ordained as a monk on Thursday. Breakfast at Dai Bosatsu, top, is a ritualized affair.; A place for contemplation at the Dharma Drum in Pine Bush, N.Y. Buddhists "make excellent neighbors," a real estate agent said.; The shrine room at Karma Triyana Dharmachakra, a Tibetan Buddhist monastery in Woodstock, N.Y., part of the region's diverse sangha, or Buddhist community. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B1); The Dharma Chakra wheel of Dharma symbolizes Buddha's teachings. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (94%); RELIGION (93%); MOUNTAINS (91%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); MEDITATION (76%); WORKPLACE STRESS (62%) BUDDHISM 

COMPANY: STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN LLP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: NEILAN, TERENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (90%); CHINA (55%) CATSKILLS (NYS AREA); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



470 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Law Offices In California Make Cutbacks 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
A number of leading West Coast law firms, especially those that grew rapidly in serving the dot-com boom in Silicon Valley, have quietly responded to the economic slowdown with job cuts, pay cuts and other cost-saving efforts.
 While the evidence is most visible in the San Francisco Bay Area, some medium-size East Coast firms have also made trims. On both coasts, though, the firms insist the departures are performance-related. 
 Current and former associates at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, in California, say the firm has asked several people to leave; the firm denies making layoffs and did not provide the number of associates dismissed for poor performance. The Venture Law Group, another California firm, last week openly announced layoffs of nine -- or nearly 10 percent -- of its lawyers. Gunderson Dettmer Stough Villeneuve Franklin & Hachigian has effectively reduced associates' salaries by eliminating guaranteed bonuses. 
It is difficult to know how many law firms over all have been letting associates go, let alone how many associates are affected. Part of the problem is that some firms have required departing associates to sign agreements saying they are leaving voluntarily or promising not to discuss the terms of their departure. 
At least one firm -- Brobeck Phleger & Harrison in San Francisco -- has pledged that it will not lay off associates. And at some of the profession's biggest firms, like Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom in New York, layoffs are unlikely because business is less focused on technology, partners say.
But the moves are significant. Law firms do not want to disclose that they have been hurt by the economic downturn for fear it will hamper their recruiting efforts, industry experts say. The last time firms laid off personnel, in the early 1990's, many found themselves a few years later lacking the midlevel lawyers they needed to handle a boom in business.
At Wilson Sonsini, whose profile rose as a result of its role in public offerings of technology companies in recent years, several associates said that Lawrence W. Sonsini, a partner in the firm, told them at a meeting that the partners had decided to try to keep the firm's size constant.
Because the firm, which employs more than 800 lawyers, will absorb approximately 80 new hires in the fall, the associates said they were worried that an equal number would be dismissed. The firm also canceled an expensive retreat for its lawyers, associates said.
"We have not done layoffs. It is not our intention to do layoffs," said Donna Petkanics, managing director for operations. "We have done performance-based terminations as we always have in the past."
Ms. Petkanics did not provide the number of dismissals this year or in previous years, but said the total number of departing associates this year is smaller than last year. But associates said last year's higher number was a result of more voluntary departures.
Several current and former associates at San Francisco area firms said the dismissals based on performance evaluations were actually layoffs by another name. 
"In February I got the maximum bonus" possible, said one former associate at a large California firm. 
"I thought I was doing fantastic," the associate continued. But he was told just months later that he had no future at the firm, which seemed not only harsh but implausible, he said. He has since found a job at another firm in the area. 
Current and former law firm associates interviewed for this article would not allow their names or the names of the firms involved to be used, for fear of retaliation.
The problem facing the firms is simple. Clients are spending less on legal services, so revenue is weaker. At the same time, summer interns from last year are eager to start work this fall, and will be paid starting salaries of around $125,000 and in some cases more. On top of that, associates who just six months ago were leaving in droves in pursuit of jobs that were more fulfilling and more lucrative are now staying put.
"We have too many people for this economy," said Tower C. Snow Jr., chairman of Brobeck Phleger & Harrison in San Francisco.
Still, he said, Brobeck will not lay off any lawyers. "When law firms lay off talented people, the message they send is that the most important thing in this law firm is partner income," he said. "That's a very unattractive, ugly message.
"If there's an economic hit due to the economy, which there may well be, the partners will take the hit," he continued. Of roughly 750 associates, he said, Brobeck had dismissed approximately 19 this year, compared with approximately 17 last year.
Gunderson Dettmer, a Menlo Park, Calif., firm that helped ignite salary competition in recent years, has effectively reduced associates' compensation by eliminating a "guaranteed bonus," said Robert V. Gunderson Jr., one of the founding partners. He attributed the move to a business slowdown.
"The level of activity is down this year for most firms, if not all firms," he said. "Law firms are in some sense a derivative of the activity of other enterprises."
In New York, where law partners say their client base is more mixed, there has also been a slowdown in technology industries and capital markets activity, but there has been an increase in bankruptcy work and general litigation.
The largest firms, too, have offices in Europe and Asia that continue to be busy, partners say.
"Our practices were much broader to begin with," said Robert C. Sheehan, executive partner at Skadden, Arps. The firm has slowed its hiring and lawyers over all are a little less busy this year than last year, he said.
"Clearly we're feeling the current economy's condition, and as an overall matter we are somewhat below" last year's level of activity, said Whitney D. Pidot, a member of the executive group at Shearman & Sterling in New York. But because the firm has offices worldwide, he said, Shearman & Sterling has been able to shift associates overseas where there is more work, and has also shifted associates into more bankruptcy-related projects. 
And some big East Coast firms view the slowdown as an opportunity to hire good lawyers, said Scott D. Miller, managing partner of Sullivan & Cromwell's Palo Alto office. "We're seeing a steady volume of resumes from most of the local firms," he said.
Less international firms may show signs of strain, though, and legal recruiters singled out a few that have let associates go. At Thelen Reid & Priest's New York office, the firm has dismissed about 10 lawyers this year out of roughly 150, based on performance reviews. The dismissals came after annual and midyear reviews, said Jonathan Siegfried, managing partner.
"That's not anything out of the ordinary," he said. However, other lawyers at the firm said it was unusual to dismiss anyone while summer interns are around, because word gets back to law school campuses. They also pointed to the departure of several partners, which the firm also said was not unusual.
At Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker, the chairman of the New York office, Barry Brooks, said the number of people dismissed for performance reasons this year was greater than last year, but that on a percentage basis the number was down. He said the increase in absolute numbers was not a result of changes in business but a reflection of the firm's rapid growth.
"Throughout the firm, we've got some less busy and some busier areas," he said. "We're not doing anything differently than the way we always do." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); LAWYERS (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LAW FIRM ASSOCIATE SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%) LEGAL PROFESSION; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: WILSON SONSINI GOODRICH & ROSATI PC (92%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (91%); GUNDERSON DETTMER STOUGH VILLENEUVE FRANKLIN & HACHIGIAN LLP (84%); VENTURE LAW GROUP PC (56%); BROBECK PHLEGER & HARRISON LLP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



471 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Plague of Crickets Does $25 Million Damage to Crops in Utah 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: TINTIC JUNCTION, Utah, June 14 

 BODY:
"I've got a war on my hands here," Scott Overson said, climbing off his all-terrain vehicle.
 The enemy was all around: Mormon crickets, as they are known here, huge hordes of them, some marching across the dirt road, some munching on nearby foliage, some munching on each other. 
 "They're cannibals," said Mr. Overson, who works for the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Agriculture Department. "They'll eat anything, including each other." 
For much of this spring, Utah has been the main course for countless Mormon crickets and a variety of equally hungry grasshoppers. Gov. Michael O. Leavitt recently declared an agricultural emergency, asking the Agriculture Department to help combat critters that state experts say have infested more than 1.5 million acres in 18 of the state's 29 counties, causing at least $25 million in crop damage. Governor Leavitt turned to Washington because lands managed by federal agencies have become the insects' primary hatching grounds and, after they have grown, their favorite entree.
Mr. Leavitt has not heard back, leaving people like Mr. Overson and Edward J. Bianco, the state's head entomologist, to wonder how they will turn the tide of a fight they seem to be losing. Just one Mormon cricket, a slightly more voracious eater than a grasshopper, can consume up to 38 pounds of forage in its brief life of several months.
With limited resources, the state has mounted strikes in areas of concentrated infestations by dropping poisonous bait, as Mr. Overson was doing here today over an expanse of range in Juab County. Other efforts include spraying from the air where feasible and encouraging local residents to use retail insecticides to protect their lawns and gardens. Elsewhere, the insects reign.
"We'll never get rid of them," Mr. Bianco said, holding a dying cricket that had ingested some of the bait. "We'll be fighting them for 200 years. But the ultimate goal now is to control their population to where there is no economic damage to farmers."
That could be a long way off. The insects have bedeviled Utah farmers since Mormon pioneers settled in Utah more than 150 years ago, hence the cricket's name. Some years have not been so bad as others because of colder weather that curbs reproduction. But in milder winters, like the most recent few, each female cricket drops as many as 180 eggs, which make for eye-popping sights once the eggs mature into little eating machines. 
"Couple weeks ago, I saw a band of them crossing a road," Mr. Overson said of grown crickets, which are two inches long. "The road was black with them, and they were three deep on top of each other."
Utah farmers are bewildered. Brandon George, who raises grain on several hundred acres near Kanosh in Millard County, said insects have destroyed half of his barley crop and most of his hay, costing him tens of thousands of dollars in lost sales and outlays for seeds to replace damaged crops. 
"It's incredible how many there are, and I've sprayed twice," Mr. George said. "My neighbor, Ned Harris -- he's lost a bunch of crops too, same as me." 
Crickets and grasshoppers this spring have invaded parts of other Western states, like Idaho, Nevada and California. But Congress has resisted spending to combat them. The Agriculture Department's control program was established in 1985 with $20 million and received new annual appropriations only through 1993. During the next six years, unused money was held in reserve until it ran out in 1999. This year, Congress gave the program $300,000.
The Bureau of Land Management, an agency of the Interior Department, began a similar control program in 1987 with $5 million. But annual appropriations decreased, to $318,000 in the 2000 fiscal year. The bureau received an emergency appropriation of $1.48 million in the current budget.
State and federal experts say the lack of money, combined with efforts by environmental groups to block use of airdropped insecticides because of their potential effect on the human food supply, has helped the insect population grow so much that Mr. Overson said it was impossible to estimate how many there are. 
"Millions?" he said dismissively. "They're infinitesimal. There isn't a number."
After a long day of dropping lethal bait off the back of his all-terrain vehicle, Mr. Overson looked a little bedraggled. All around him, healthy crickets hopped among their dead and dying brethren, a scene that reminded him of the magnitude of the task. For now, he said, the department cannot afford more than a handful of workers working the front lines, dropping bait.
"What I'd like to do," he said, "is box up a bunch of these bugs and dump them in a Congressional office. That would create some chaos. Then maybe we can get some more help."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scott Overson, a federal agriculture worker, spreads poison bait for Mormon crickets. Left, one of the crickets eats a plant near Oak City, Utah. (Photographs by George Frey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (91%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); ENTOMOLOGY (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); INSECTICIDES (76%); ANIMALS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%) AGRICULTURE; CRICKETS; GRASSHOPPERS; INSECTS 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (83%); ANIMAL & PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL O LEAVITT (90%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; LEAVITT, MIKE (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) UTAH

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



472 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: A Promising Start With Russia 

 BODY:
The quick rapport struck between President Bush and Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, during their initial meeting Saturday exceeded even optimistic expectations, all the more so considering the rhetorical chill that briefly crept over relations between Washington and Moscow earlier this year. On Saturday, Mr. Bush seemed genial and at ease, although his comment that he had looked Mr. Putin in the eye and found him an "honest, straightforward man," whom Americans can trust, struck some observers as naive. Even so, Mr. Putin, whose usual steely demeanor recalls his long years as a Soviet K.G.B. operative, visibly warmed to the personal chemistry of the occasion. 
 To be sure, there should be no underestimating of the difficulty of the problems that could potentially divide America and Russia over the next four years. These include American missile defense plans, the next round of NATO expansion and Russia's problematic sales of nuclear material and technology to Iran. But if the two leaders stay committed to their vision of Washington and Moscow as potential partners, even the hardest problems can be constructively resolved. 
 The most pressing disagreement between the two countries right now concerns missile defense. Mr. Bush has talked of renouncing the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty so that he can quickly build a missile shield against unpredictable countries like North Korea. He has offered Russia incentives to accept this course, including military aid, joint antimissile exercises and the purchase of Russian surface-to-air missiles. Moscow has resisted, concerned that abandoning the ABM Treaty would allow America to test advanced defensive technology that could one day blunt Russia's nuclear missile force.
On Saturday, Mr. Putin again warned that if Washington developed a missile shield without some understanding with Russia, it could severely complicate relations. But he emphasized his hope that some form of agreement could be reached. Secretary of State Colin Powell and Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld will begin a series of meetings with their Russian counterparts on these and other issues in the coming weeks.
On NATO expansion, Mr. Bush last week called for the eventual inclusion of all European democracies, including the three Baltic nations that once formed part of the Soviet Union, a step strongly opposed by Russia. But in the same speech, Mr. Bush stressed that "NATO, even as it grows, is no enemy of Russia," a stance welcomed on Saturday. Russia should not have a veto over future NATO members, but further expansion must be handled in ways that do not appear provocative or threatening.
No visible progress was made on Russian arms sales to Iran or Moscow's assistance to the Iranian nuclear power industry, which Washington fears could speed Tehran's development of nuclear weapons. Further discussion of this issue will be needed when General Powell and Mr. Rumsfeld meet with Russian officials and when Mr. Bush meets again with Mr. Putin at next month's economic summit meeting of industrial nations in Italy. Mr. Putin also accepted an invitation to visit Mr. Bush's Texas ranch this fall and will host President Bush in Russia at a date still to be determined. The closer engagement signaled by Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin is a healthy development. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); VETO (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); ARMS TRADE (73%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (56%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); IRAN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



473 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
Putin's China Card

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
"I like Old Joe," said F.D.R. about Joseph Stalin. Carrying on that self-deluding tradition of snap judgments, George W. Bush looked into the eyes of Vladimir Putin, announced, "I was able to get a sense of his soul," and after two heady hours concluded he was "straightforward" and "trustworthy."
 Ever since the K.G.B. man emerged as the Russian oligarchs' choice, President Putin has shown himself to be duplicitous (ask the Chechens), anti-democratic (ask the remains of Russia's free press) and untrustworthy (ask the exiled oligarchs). We can hope that the Bush gush was flattery intended to show the U.S. president to be nonthreatening as his administration presses ahead with a missile defense. 
 The American gave the Russian what he most needs: public deference that salves Russia's wounded pride, and respect to its leader abroad as Putin methodically chokes off opposition at home. Bush topped this off with a pre-emptive concession: agreement to exchange warm ranch-and-home visits, for which Putin was eager, even before any progress was shown in agreement to scrap the old ABM treaty.
The Russian partly reciprocated, as Bush hoped, by accepting the American formulation of "a new architecture of security in the world" and by hinting that "we might have a very constructive development here in this area." That public optimism from Russia takes a little of the steam out of alarmist Franco-German protests that America, in defending its cities from rogue missiles, was starting "a new arms race."
At home, Putin has cracked down on the new freedoms without curbing the old corruption. Example of the rule of lawlessness: his Duma passed a bill last week to make Russia the world's nuclear waste dump, generating $20 billion over the next decade.
That would be the most dangerous boondoggle in history, with little control over 2,000 tons of radioactive garbage yearly. "One hundred million Russian citizens are against it," says Grigory Yavlinsky, one of the few reformers left standing in the Duma, "and only 500 people are for it -- 300 members sitting here and 200 bureaucrats who will be getting the money." (Fortunately for the world, the U.S. won't bury our nuclear waste in Russia, where it could be reprocessed and sold to Iran for weapons production.)
Well aware of the weakness of his hand, Putin is emulating Nixon strategy by playing the China card. Pointedly, just before meeting with Bush, Putin traveled to Shanghai to set up a regional cooperation semi-alliance with Jiang Zemin and some of his Asian fellow travelers. 
That deft maneuver puts European leaders on notice that Russia -- despite all the talk of becoming a "partner" in Europe -- knows that the center of America's strategic concern in the coming generation will be Asia.
Putin is signaling Bush: European leaders may resent your economic competition and appeal to their voters by complaining about pollution, but that's merely bickering within the Western alliance. A future recombination of China and Russia, however, would challenge America's status as the world's sole superpower. Therefore, you'd better prop up our Russian economy -- with none of your human-rights lectures and expansion of NATO to our borders -- lest we undermine your hegemony with a Beijing-Moscow axis.
I wonder if Bush and his advisers are catching that signal. If so, they don't seem to have let Putin's China card affect U.S. policy. In a strong and thoughtful speech in Warsaw, Bush sent a signal of his own: "No more Munichs, no more Yaltas."
That means no more appeasement of threats of aggression (as at Munich just before World War II, or about Taiwan today) and no more carving up of the world into spheres of influence (as at Yalta at that war's end, or blocking the entry of the Baltic nations into NATO today). I read that to mean we will support the entry of Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania vigorously, despite Putin's phony worry about NATO being "a military organization . . . moving toward our border."
With the strongest hand any American ever held, Bush comported himself well. But he should remember Reagan's "trust but verify." When the manipulative Russian comes to visit at the Texas ranch this fall, I would hate to hear "I like ol' Vlad." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (88%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ARMS RACE (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); NUCLEAR WASTE (67%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (67%); CORRUPTION (64%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (72%) EAST CHINA (68%) CHINA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (54%) RUSSIA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



474 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Will Oppose Efforts To Tighten Fuel Efficiency 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 17 

 BODY:
General Motors is taking a stand against efforts to raise federal fuel-economy standards.
 G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, said on Friday that the company would oppose not only any move to increase fuel-economy standards for automobiles, but also any effort to tighten the definition under which vehicles are considered light trucks, which qualify for more lenient gas-mileage standards than cars. 
 Mr. Wagoner said in an interview with reporters that federal regulation of automotive fuel economy had been a failure and should be scrapped, not reworked. "Suffice it to say, it hasn't worked and, in our view, it won't work," he said. 
He argued that Americans would not want fuel-efficient vehicles as long as gasoline prices remain very low in the United States, at least by international standards.
The fuel-economy rules are receiving considerable attention in Congress now because gasoline prices rose during the spring, although they have fallen back slightly the last two weeks and still remain far below the $5 or more a gallon charged in Europe. Automobiles also emit large quantities of global-warming gases with each gallon of gasoline they burn, so their efficiency has become controversial as President Bush has sought to redefine American policy on global warming.
The fuel efficiency of all the cars sold by each automaker must average at least 27.5 miles a gallon. But the standard is 20.7 miles a gallon for light trucks, a category that includes minivans, pickup trucks and traditional sport utility vehicles, which are based on pickup truck underbodies instead of car designs.
Because automakers are classifying more and more vehicles as light trucks, the overall fuel economy of vehicles on the road has fallen to 24.5 miles a gallon, the lowest level since 1980, after peaking at 26.2 miles a gallon in 1987. Moreover, all of these averages are calculated using special rules that allow automakers to add an extra 18 percent to the actual mileage figures that appear on window stickers.
Crossover utility vehicles, which are mostly high-roofed, all-wheel-drive vehicles that use the mechanical underpinnings of cars, are the fastest-growing segment of the auto industry, with sales more than doubling in the first five months of this year, to 6 percent of the auto market. They include models like the Toyota Highlander, Ford Escape and Chrysler PT Cruiser, and virtually all of them are classified as light trucks by the automakers.
Mr. Wagoner made his remarks about fuel economy after saying that sales of crossover vehicles will continue to grow rapidly and will draw people who have been buying cars until now, rather than people who have been buying pickup trucks or traditional sport utilities.
Automakers have enormous discretion to decide what is a car and what is a light truck under rules issued in 1977 by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which is part of the Department of Transportation. Joan Claybrook, the president of Public Citizen, a liberal advocacy group founded by Ralph Nader, was the safety agency's administrator when the rules were issued. She said in a telephone interview that when her staff drafted the lengthy definition of a light truck, it was intended for commercial vehicles, not passenger vehicles.
It would be politically easier now, she said, to narrow the definition of a light truck than to raise the mileage standard for all light trucks to 27.5 miles a gallon, as some in Congress have proposed.
"That is clearly something I think the agency has the authority to change," she said. "It would be harder for the industry to fight and it might be the shrewdest way to push up standards." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (88%); PICKUP TRUCKS (86%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (70%); MINIVANS (69%) AUTOMOBILES; ENERGY EFFICIENCY; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (90%) BRADSHER, KEITH; WAGONER, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



475 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Europe Sees Bush's Trip Exceeding Expectations 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, June 17 

 BODY:
As the dust settled on President Bush's first official visit to Europe, many experts and newspapers on the Continent called his five-country excursion a success, at least compared with what they had expected.
 "He proved he was not quite the Texas dolt that everyone thought he was," said Josef Joffe, a German foreign policy analyst. "And he used moderate language. In international relations, that is very important." 
 To be sure, expectations were so low that some believed that Mr. Bush could not fail to impress. And the trip had no particular goals beyond getting acquainted. 
Mr. Bush had been derided on this side of the Atlantic with nicknames like the Toxic Texan and Bully Bush for the go-it-alone "cowboy" manner in which he decided that the United States would not ratify the Kyoto agreement on global warming and for his willingness to toss out arms control agreements in pursuit of building a missile shield. Those are things that European leaders, including President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, have opposed. 
By the end of his visit, neither Mr. Bush nor the Europeans moved an inch from their starting points, but the American president gave his Europeans allies at least some of what they wanted: he came offering handshakes, back-slapping, some gentler wording and the promise of future discussion. 
Mr. Bush's brand of good cheer, first names and small jokes -- for instance, he called Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain "Mr. Landslide" -- charmed his hosts from Spain to Slovenia. During a long dinner with European Union leaders in Sweden, he apparently deftly handled a barrage of questions on global warming and defense issues. 
"Really," a Scandinavian official said, "he left a very positive impression of knowing some facts."
Still, the European press did not miss any of the president's gaffes. Mr. Bush mangled the last name of Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar of Spain. He made mistakes when he tried to speak Spanish. He kissed Queen Sofia of Spain on the cheek when protocol called for a handshake. In Sweden, he called Africa a nation.
But headlines across Europe suggested a softening of tone. "No More Mr. Unilateralist," said The Financial Times of Britain. The left-wing French daily Liberation wrote, "George W. Bush is manifestly not the 'superficial buffoon and arrogant Texan' portrayed in the media." 
Editorial writers who 10 days ago were condemning him for a failure to consult suggested that he was proving more flexible than advertised.
The leftist La Repubblica of Rome noted that Bush had responded to a question by saying, "Unilateralists don't sit around tables listening to the views of others."
The editorial went on: "He did sit at the table. With passion he asked for the Europeans' help in convincing Putin. With humility he asked for their trust, guaranteeing that he would consult at every step."
Charles Grant of the London-based Center for European Reform said: "The personal stuff is quite important. Europe's big worry was that he was not interested and ignorant. Just the fact that he spent a week here goes a long way."
Experts point out that most new American presidents have been regarded at first with skepticism and derision in Europe. 
"It's a process," Mr. Joffe said. "They called Carter a peanut farmer, when in fact he was an engineer. They called Reagan an actor in B-movies, when in fact he had run the state of California with a huge economy quite successfully. Europeans have to work out their cliches about Bush, and that has started to happen now."
For many here, it was actually Mr. Bush's last stop -- his meeting with Mr. Putin -- that was deemed the most important, and there again many were relieved to see a friendly encounter between the two men, even if their views seemed intractably apart.
Europeans have been much more reluctant than the United States to contemplate moves that might rattle Mr. Putin, like the proposed defense missile shield and the enlargement of NATO to include the Baltic States.
But while Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin made clear that they did not agree on those two issues, the tone of the meeting was cordial enough to allay European fears, at least for now. That was something Mr. Bush needed. 
"Bush and Putin; first good friends" said the headline in the French weekly "Le Journal du Dimanche." In Russia, too, television reporters cast the meeting as a success, emphasizing how the two men had agreed to visit each other soon. 
None of this is to say that Mr. Bush's intractability on the issues went unnoticed.
His refusal to budge on the Kyoto Protocol on global warming prompted headlines in Germany like, "Bush disappoints Europeans' hopes: underlines his "no" to Kyoto agreement."
One cartoon in the liberal Suddeutsche Zeitung showed Mr. Bush with a big grin and a smoking six-shooter. The headline over the nearby article was "The Boss -- charming but tough." 
Some newspapers said Mr. Bush's reiteration of his stand on the Kyoto Protocol was a contributing factor in prompting the riots that plagued the European Union summit meeting in Goteborg, Sweden. 
And some experts considered his speech in Poland on the future of Europe to contain some of the "usual" American misconceptions. In the speech, Mr. Bush called for the enlargement of NATO and the European Union almost as if they were the same entity. Moreover, some said, urging quick European Union enlargement failed to understand the complexity of the issues involved.
"A lot of times, Americans talk about it like you just sign a bit of paper and you're in," Mr. Grant said. "It is a little bit more complicated than that. There are 80,000 pages of documents to go over. You are half way to joining a state. That's why it takes years to negotiate these things."
But European leaders seemed eager to like Mr. Bush, and one measure of their newfound comfort may be that as soon as he left, he was hardly mentioned again for the remainder of the summit meeting.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Aleksander Kwasniewski of Poland took a picture on Friday after President Bush delivered a foreign policy address in Warsaw. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); TONY BLAIR (50%) DALEY, SUZANNE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%) EUROPE (96%); SPAIN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWEDEN (92%); POLAND (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); FRANCE (78%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



476 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Sanctions Didn't Stop Iraq From Buying Weapons 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 15 

 BODY:
Two American arms control experts, combing through unpublished reports by a disbanded arms inspection commission, say they found evidence that Iraq continued to buy prohibited weapons or parts long after United Nations sanctions were imposed in 1990.
 Many of the purchases appear to have been made in Central and Eastern Europe, the experts, Gary Milhollin, director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control in Washington, and Kelly Motz, a project researcher, say in a new independent report. They found documents concerning illegal sales or potential sales by companies in Ukraine, Belarus and Romania. Among the purchases made by the government of Saddam Hussein were missile components and high-technology machine tools. 
 In the past, United Nations arms inspectors for Iraq had been reluctant to identify countries in public reports, in part because there have also been suspicions of illegal trading by companies in Russia, a powerful member of the Security Council. 
The report by the Wisconsin Project, to be published on Wednesday in the magazine Commentary, appears as the United Nations Security Council is debating a new "oil for food" program for Iraq that would lift most restrictions on sales of civilian goods to Iraq.
The Council is stymied over American insistence that, given Iraq's past subterfuges in acquiring weapons of mass destruction, the plan must include an extensive list of items that could only be sold after a review to make sure they were not intended for military use.
"What this shows is that Saddam's procurement network is alive and well and has been working steadily despite the sanctions," Mr. Milhollin said in an interview on Thursday. "To stop it, we need to do better. 
"There are a lot of companies out there willing to break the embargo, and they're also going to be willing to take advantages of weaknesses in this list, which means the list ought to be as strong as we can make it. Given his proclivities to divert things and to stop selling oil for his people in order to leverage us out of controlling his money, if there are going to be mistakes made, we ought to make them on the side of being more careful about what he is allowed to buy."
The sanctions were imposed on Iraq in 1990, after it invaded Kuwait. The oil for food program allows Iraq to sell oil to alleviate suffering of the civilian population under the sanctions. The United Nations monitors expenditure of the profits, with part going to Kurds in the north and reparations for the Persian Gulf war.
France, Russia and China are objecting to the American list of items that would have to be reviewed under the broadened program.
They contend that some items, beyond clearly prohibited arms, are unnecessarily restrictive and will prolong hardships in Iraq that the new oil-sales plan was intended to alleviate. 
Some independent experts say United States intelligence agencies are trying to keep certain items out of Iraq that it could use to make American eavesdropping harder, if not impossible.
In negotiations this week in Paris and New York, the Americans agreed to trim the list somewhat, diplomats said. But continuing disagreements over its scope it could cause the Council to miss another deadline, July 3, for establishing the new oil-sales program.
In their article, Mr. Milhollin and Dr. Motz dismiss the debate over the new plan as largely irrelevant. "The new proposal -- whether adopted by the U.N. or not -- has little hope of stopping the Iraqis from sneaking in what they need to rebuild their weapons sites and sneaking out the oil to pay for it," they wrote. "For the truth is that even when the U.N. inspections regime was in place, the Iraqis had figured out how to do just that."
Iraq continues to argue that it has disarmed as required by the Security Council and that sanctions should be lifted without further preconditions. Russia and France, the Council members with the closest ties to Iraq, say that while an automatic lifting of sanctions is not possible, Iraq should be told clearly what it still needs to do so that sanctions can at least be suspended as soon as possible. 
A United Nations commission was set up after the gulf war to monitor Iraq's weapons, but the inspectors were withdrawn in late 1998, in advance of American and British bombing of Iraq. It was that commission's documents that Mr. Milhollin and Dr. Motz reviewed.
A new arms inspection system was established, but this week its director, Hans Blix of Sweden, told the Security Council again that inspectors from his new United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission must go to Iraq before a suspension can be considered. Mr. Hussein has barred them.
"The completion of both the inventory of unresolved disarmament issues and the identification of the key remaining disarmament tasks," he wrote in a report to the Council, "will only be possible after the commission's experts have commenced work in Iraq and have been able to assess what changes may have occurred during the almost two-and-a-half years when there have been no on-site inspections or monitoring in Iraq."
Among the examples drawn from the documents of the now defunct United Nations Special Commission was a case that began in 1995 when a delegation of Iraqi specialists from the Badr State Establishment, which made sophisticated machine tools, arrived in Belarus with a shopping list that included diamond-cutting tools. They can be used for making precision parts for nuclear weapons and long-range missiles. Those tools and other materials were bought outside United Nations rules, the authors say, and shipped to Iraq by way of the Jordanian free-trade port of Aqaba.
As late as 1998, before arms inspectors were withdrawn from Iraq, the Wisconsin Project article says, United Nations experts saw high-technology lens-making machinery from Belarus being unloaded in Iraq. In Ukraine, the Iraqis wanted to acquire whole laboratories, with training assistance and computer software. The Iraqis say they never made the purchases, and United Nations inspectors never found evidence of them at missile sites or other places.
Ukraine continues to be publicly active in Iraq, however. This year, according to news reports from Kiev, more than 100 Ukrainian companies, some selling space and aviation equipment, exhibited their goods at a Baghdad trade fair. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); SALES PLAN (70%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; BIOLOGICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%) UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) MILHOLLIN, GARY; MOTZ, KELLY; CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); BELARUS (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ROMANIA (91%); UKRAINE (91%); KUWAIT (79%); FRANCE (79%); CHINA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) IRAQ; UKRAINE; BELARUS; ROMANIA

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



477 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: SENATE CONSIDERS PATIENTS' RIGHTS IN TEST WITH BUSH 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL and ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17 

 BODY:
The Senate opens debate this week on the regulation of health maintenance organizations, putting protections for more than 170 million Americans with private health insurance at the center of the first test of strength between President Bush and the newly ascendant Senate Democrats.
 Lobbyists and lawmakers alike will be watching the Senate closely for insights into how Washington will work under the new political alignment: Who will control the policy agenda? Will compromise or confrontation become the norm? And can the issue that has been fought over in dozens of campaigns finally make it into law? 
 "It's time to stop the political bickering," said Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, who is trying to be a broker between the parties. "Patients cannot get medical treatment with a political issue."
For Democrats, the decision to use their new control of the Senate agenda to try to pass the long-stalled patients' bill of rights brings them full circle. In 1994 they lost control of Congress on the heels of their failure to enact President Bill Clinton's ambitious plan for universal national health insurance. 
Now Senate Democrats are beginning their new reign with health care. But this time they are trying to define a wide range of new rights for those who do have insurance. The rights would include broad new guarantees that patients can seek redress in court.
"I think that we will show the tremendous resonance this issue has and the tremendous support this issue has all over the country," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the majority leader.
In the years since the two parties first deadlocked over how to react to the managed care revolution, they have moved closer to agreement.
The Democrats have long been the driving force, placing the legislation high on their list of priorities. Republicans, who once resisted federal regulation of health insurance, now accept it as inevitable.
Mr. Bush allowed a patients' bill of rights to become law in Texas without his signature. While he did not put the issue at the center of his campaign, in one of the presidential debates he declared, "I support a national patients' bill of rights."
The major sticking point between the parties now is what rights patients should have to sue H.M.O.'s, and in which courts.
That does not sound like an insurmountable problem, but it has stalled Congress for years. And now many complex political calculations are also at work. The administration and the Democrats will be reluctant to back down in their first confrontation since the Democrats took control of the Senate. Each side is also likely to weigh whether a compromise is preferable to having a campaign issue in 2002.
Last week, Mr. Bush said "I can't live with the bill" favored by Senate Democrats, who want a more expansive right to sue than the president does. Similarly, Mr. Daschle has said, "We've compromised as much as I think we possibly can."
Adding to the volatile mix is the fact that Senator John McCain of Arizona, Mr. Bush's nemesis in the Republican primaries, is the chief sponsor of the Democrats' bill. Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont, the former Republican who gave the Democrats control of the Senate when he became an independent, is sponsoring the bill Mr. Bush favors.
"This is four-dimensional chess," said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut. 
Major interest groups, taking a lesson from the way the insurance industry helped kill the Clinton health care plan, have deployed dozens of lobbyists and bought millions of dollars' worth of advertising. 
Mr. Daschle has promised a wide-open debate, in which the Senate can shape the bill by voting on dozens of amendments. No one knows what will emerge from such a free-wheeling process. But Republicans say their party is unlikely to use a filibuster to block passage. 
"I think with the president of the United States feeling so strongly about this issue that we will see a bill pass," said Senator Bill Frist, a Tennessee Republican whose bill has been endorsed by Mr. Bush.
Democrats have the advantage of deciding which bill is taken up on the Senate floor, and it will be the one written by Mr. McCain with two Democrats, John Edwards of North Carolina and Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts.
The Democrats have picked an issue that divides the Republicans. Many but not all of the Republican amendments will be drawn from the rival bill introduced by Mr. Frist, Mr. Breaux and Mr. Jeffords, with Mr. Bush's blessings. But some Republicans, including Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the assistant minority leader, have qualms about Mr. Frist's bill because they think it erodes the states' traditional role in regulating insurance.
Mr. Bush and the Democrats agree that any new federal law should guarantee patients' access to emergency care, medical specialists and an independent medical review of decisions denying claims for benefits. But they diverge over the question of what happens if a patient is dissatisfied with the outcome of a review. Even if Congress agrees that it should be easier for patients to sue H.M.O.'s, lawmakers still have to answer several big questions:
*Should patients be allowed to sue in federal or state court, or both?
*Should the federal government impose any limits on punitive damages or other damages?
*Should patients be required to exhaust their rights to administrative appeals before going to court?
*Should employers have any liability -- if, for example, they participate in decisions denying claims for benefits?
Under Mr. McCain's bill, patients could sue H.M.O.'s in state court for injuries resulting from poor care, and they could recover damages to the extent allowed by state law. Patients could also sue in federal court if an H.M.O. or its agents did not exercise "ordinary care" in making decisions about coverage, eligibility, co-payments or similar matters. 
Democrats would not set any limits on damages for economic loss or pain and suffering in these federal cases. A patient could win up to $5 million in a "civil assessment," similar to punitive damages, for flagrant violations of rights.
Republicans would expand the right to sue in limited circumstances, if a patient successfully pursues an administrative appeal and a health plan does not comply with the decision of an independent reviewer.
Senator Frist's bill would prohibit punitive damages and would set a $500,000 limit on damages for pain and suffering.
Republicans, who ordinarily champion states' rights, generally want patients' lawsuits to be tried in federal court, where judges can set uniform standards for employers doing business in numerous states. Democrats favor state courts because they have more experience with personal injury claims and state juries often give more compensation for injuries.
Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Senate Republican leader, said today that he was willing to consider a compromise on this question. "A lot of the state courts are controlled by the plaintiffs' bar, and we are worried about that," Mr. Lott said on the CBS News program "Face the Nation." "On the other hand, I can see circumstances where being able to go to state court would be acceptable."
In the coming struggle, Mr. Bush and the Democrats will be fighting for the votes of Democratic centrists and Republican moderates. Each party portrays the other as a captive of special interests. 
Terry McAuliffe, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, jumped into the fray last week, accusing the president of seeking to protect "his special interest friends" and saying: "If you are harmed by an insurance company why should that H.M.O. have diplomatic immunity? It's not fair."
The H.M.O.s, amplifying the same arguments as Republicans, are running commercials that accuse the Democrats of pandering to trial lawyers at the expense of patients. One, featuring a woman who owns a small business, intones that the Democrats' bill "could force small businesses like hers to cut health insurance benefits because of expensive new health care lawsuits -- lawsuits that help lawyers but hurt families."
In fact, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the McCain bill would increase premiums for employer-sponsored health insurance by 4.2 percent, while the Frist bill would increase costs by 2.9 percent.
Some optimists predict that a compromise will emerge. "There's a point in time when an issue is mature," said Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida. "People are tired of talking about it and ready to move on."

GRAPHIC: Charts: "HIGHLIGHTS -- Patients' Rights: Points of Dispute"The Senate begins debate this week on a bill to define patients' rights and set federal standards for health insurance. Here is a look at two rival bills under consideration. SUMMARY OF BILL MCCAIN-EDWARDS-KENNEDYMost extensive consumer protections. Backed by most Democrats. FRIST-BREAUX-JEFFORDSSubstantial new protections for consumers. Backed by some Republicans, including President Bush. COVERAGE MCCAIN-EDWARDS-KENNEDY181 million Americans FRIST-BREAUX-JEFFORDS170 million Americans PROTECTIONS MCCAIN-EDWARDS-KENNEDYGuarantees access to emergency medical care, medical specialists and clinical trials of experimental drugs. FRIST-BREAUX-JEFFORDSSimilar, with differences in details. EXTERNAL REVIEW MCCAIN-EDWARDS-KENNEDYPatients can obtain inde-pendent medical review of any decisions denying claims for benefits. FRIST-BREAUX-JEFFORDSSimilar, but medical reviewers have less discre-tion, so insurance company decisions are less likely to be modified or overruled. RIGHT TO SUE MCCAIN-EDWARDS-KENNEDYPatients could sue H.M.O.'s and other plans in state court (for poor-quality care) or federal court (for coverage, eligibility, premiums and co-payments). Patients could win up to $5 million in civil penalties resem-bling punitive damages. FRIST-BREAUX-JEFFORDSPatients have a much more limited right to sue, in federal court, if health plan fails to comply with deci-sion of an independent medical reviewer. No punitive damages allowed. Damages for pain and suffering limited to $500,000. COST* MCCAIN-EDWARDS-KENNEDY+4.2 percent FRIST-BREAUX-JEFFORDS+2.9 percent *Congressional Budget Office's estimated increase in premiums. (pg. A14) Chart: "CHRONOLOGY: Ups and Downs" FEB. 25, 1997 -- Senator Edward M. Kennedy and Representative John D. Dingell introduce bills to define patients' rights and regulate health maintenance organizations. MARCH 26, 1997 -- President Bill Clinton appoints an advisory panel to draft a bill of rights for patients. NOV. 19, 1997 -- Mr. Clinton's advisory commission proposes a bill of rights for patients, but does not say who should enforce the standards and does not specifically call for federal legislation or a right to sue. JULY 15, 1999 -- Senate approves Republican bill to regulate H.M.O.'s by vote of 53 to 47. OCT. 7, 1999 -- House passes comprehensive bipartisan bill to define patients' rights by vote of 275 to 151, as 68 Republicans defy their party leaders. JUNE 29, 2000 -- Senate votes, 51 to 47, for Republican version of the bill of rights as an amendment to a federal spending bill. It includes a limited right to sue. FALL 2000 -- Patients' rights is an issue in the presidential election and many Congressional races. FEB. 6, 2001 -- Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, announces he will be the chief sponsor of Democrats' bill to define patients' rights. FEB. 7, 2001 -- President Bush lays out principles for bipartisan legislation on patients' rights. (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); LOBBYING (78%); VETO (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CHRONOLOGIES (75%); HEALTH CARE (74%); LITIGATION (68%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; VETOES (US) 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%); TED KENNEDY (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); JOHN DINGELL (79%); TOM DASCHLE (58%) DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MITCHELL, ALISON; PEAR, ROBERT; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); EDWARDS, JOHN (SEN); KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); FRIST, BILL (SEN); BREAUX, JOHN (SEN); JEFFORDS, JAMES (SEN); CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



478 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Bush and Putin Now Seem To Have a Cordial Rivalry
The rapport between President Bush and the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, just one day after Mr. Bush said he wanted NATO to expand up to Russia's border, was a significant achievement for the Americans, a senior official who helped plan the Bush trip said. Critics on Capitol Hill said Mr. Bush was too willing to pronounce Mr. Putin trustworthy. A10

As the dust settled on President Bush's first official visit to Europe, many experts and newspapers on the Continent called his five-country excursion a success, at least compared to what they had expected. A10

In Yugoslavia, Mr. Putin said Kosovo was the main cause of instability in the Balkans and urged world leaders to ensure that Albanian "terrorists" were disarmed. A8

Palestinian Boy Killed in Gaza
A 12-year-old was shot by Israeli soldiers during a demonstration. It was the fifth fatality in the five-day-old cease-fire. While the shaky truce seemed to be holding, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon vetoed efforts by Foreign Minister Shimon Peres to attend a three-way meeting with the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, and the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan. A6

Iraq Defied Arms Sanctions
Two American arms control experts who combed through unpublished reports by a disbanded arms inspection commission say they have found evidence that Iraq continued to buy prohibited weapons or parts long after United Nations sanctions were imposed in 1990. A6

American Hostage Feared Dead
The Philippine military said that it believed that Guillermo Sobero, a 40-year-old American held by Muslim guerrillas, had been killed, based on the accounts of a freed hostage. A4

Ex-King Leads Vote in Bulgaria
The party founded by Bulgaria's former king, Simeon II, was leading in the country's elections, dealing a heavy blow to the political forces that have governed Bulgaria since the collapse of Communism in 1989. A8

NATIONAL A12-17

Texas Governor Blocks Bill On Execution of Retarded
Gov. Rick Perry vetoed legislation that would have banned the execution of the mentally retarded, a move that runs counter to a trend among states with the death penalty. A1

The Long and Short of the Net
One hundred million miles of optical fiber were laid around the world in the last two years for Internet-inspired communications networks. Now there is a glut of capacity on high-speed, long-haul information pipelines but a shortage of local connections. Computer users with dial-up connections find their browsers stalled, and people trying to make regular phone calls complain increasingly of busy signals. A1

Microsoft Faces Complications
The collapse of talks with AOL Time Warner complicates Microsoft's future by raising the prospect of new antitrust challenges of its new operating system, Windows XP, as well as risking that opposition from AOL and its 30 million users will hinder the introduction of the system. A1

Security Problems
When Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill appears in New York today to promote President Bush's plan to add private investment accounts to Social Security, his audience will be executives, many of whom think such a change would be good. But protesters plan to be on hand to criticize the plan as dangerous to the retirement security of workers. A14

Coalition Focuses on Farm Bill
A coalition of more than 100 environmental and hunting organizations is trying to turn the measure that will set farm policy into the major conservation act of this Congress. A12

Crop Crisis in Utah
Ravenous crickets and grasshoppers have infested more than 1.5 million acres in Utah, causing at least $25 million in crop damage. A12

Travel Industry Merger Is Seen
The Cendant Corporation, which owns Avis car rental and Days Inn hotels, is expected to announce today that it will buy Galileo International, an electronic travel reservation business, for about $2.9 billion. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

The Ethnic Archipelago That New York Has Become
The metropolitan area has grown more polyglot than ever, from its West Indian cricket leagues to its sari boutiques. But some analyses of the 2000 census show it is also more segregated than many other places -- a kind of archipelago, its enclaves like islands, each with a distinct racial or ethnic topography. A1

3 Firefighters Die in Astoria
An explosion tore through a burning building in Astoria, Queens, killing three firefighters and critically injuring one as it tossed bodies into the street and sent down a cascade of bricks and debris. Officials said at least 48 other rescue workers and two civilians were injured at the fire in the two-story building housing a hardware store that was a neighborhood institution. Several families were left homeless. A1

OBITUARIES B8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

H.M.O.'s at Heart of Struggle
The Senate opens debate this week on regulating health maintenance organizations, putting protections for more than 170 million Americans with private health plans at the center of the first test of strength between President Bush and the newly ascendant Senate Democrats. A1

ARTS E1-8

Lost Picture Shows
Network TV movies have been pushed to the brink of extinction by shifting tastes of audiences too distracted to commit to a two-hour film, strong competition from cable channels and the economic realities of programming that increasingly relies on inexpensive reality shows. E1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

Tie at U.S. Open
Retief Goosen and Mark Brooks play an 18-hole tie-breaker today at the golf championship in Tulsa, Okla. Goosen missed a short putt that would have made him the winner. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

New Chapter for Best Sellers
The veil may soon be lifted from book industry's sales figures. The company that tracks music sales appears at a turning point in its effort to build a system for disseminating sales information collected at bookstore cash registers nationwide. C1

Lawyers Tighten Belts
West Coast law firms, especially those that grew in the dot-com boom, have responded to the economic slowdown by cutting jobs and pay. C1

Publishers' Talks Collapse
Talks between AOL Time Warner and IPC Media, a British magazine publisher, broke down after the companies could not agree on a price, people close to the talks said. C5

Spat Over Honeywell Deal
The chief executive of Airbus Industrie denied an accusation by the Boeing vice chairman that Airbus lobbied European regulators to block General Electric's purchase of Honeywell. G.E. confirmed that Airbus executives supported the deal. C2

Changes in Gas Rules Opposed
General Motors said it would oppose any move to increase fuel-economy standards for automobiles and any effort to tighten the definition of light trucks, which have more lenient gas-mileage standards than cars. C6

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: A promising start with Russia; the right patients' bill of rights; when children go to war.

Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.

Bridge E8
Public Lives A12
Crossword E4
TV Listings E7
Metro Diary B2
Weather D10

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); VETO (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); INSPECTIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TRENDS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (73%); TERRORISM (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); ARMS EMBARGOES (70%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); MENTAL RETARDATION (60%); FIBER OPTICS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (60%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (60%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (91%); RICK PERRY (58%); SHIMON PERES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); BULGARIA (89%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPE (79%); SERBIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



479 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Two Sides Rally to Shape Social Security Discussion 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17 

 BODY:
When Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill appears in New York on Monday to promote President Bush's plan to add private investment accounts to Social Security, his audience will be executives from Wall Street firms and big corporations, many of whom think such a change would be good policy and good business.
 But before he addresses them, Mr. O'Neill will get a firsthand look at how explosive an issue Social Security remains and how rapidly the two sides in the debate over personal investment accounts are mobilizing. 
 When he arrives for the luncheon speech at the World Trade Center, Mr. O'Neill will be met by protesters organized by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and a coalition of liberal groups. 
They say they intend to criticize Mr. Bush's approach as dangerous to the retirement security of millions of workers. Moreover, the groups say, they will attack Mr. O'Neill for encouraging investment firms -- which stand to profit from the creation of the personal accounts -- to build support among lawmakers and the public for Mr. Bush's approach. His speech to the business group is all the more questionable, they say, since regulatory and policy decisions by the Treasury Department can have a substantial influence on securities firms.
"The idea that he's going to New York to raise money to lecture the American people through advertising on the need to dismantle Social Security is an outrageous use of his time and an outrageous use of the federal government," said Roger Hickey, co-director of Campaign for America's Future, one of the groups organizing the protest.
The business group Mr. O'Neill is addressing, a newly formed organization called the Coalition for American Financial Security, says the event is not a fund-raiser. The coalition's spokesman says it has no plans for an advertising campaign.
The coalition was founded by executives from the Frank Russell Company, an investment firm based in Tacoma, Wash., that is best known as the creator of the Russell 2000 stock index. Its members include executives from investment firms, including State Street Global Advisors, Mellon Institutional Asset Management and Brinson Partners.
Among the companies that will be represented as guests at Mr. O'Neill's luncheon speech are Morgan Stanley, American International Group, American Skandia and Caterpillar. Also attending will be representatives of the Financial Services Forum, an alliance of companies in the investment business.
"We basically put out an invite to folks who want to learn more," said T. J. Petrizzo, spokesman for the business coalition. "No money's being raised. No envelopes are being exchanged."
Treasury Department officials said that Mr. O'Neill was simply taking an opportunity to discuss an issue that was high on the administration's agenda, and that he regularly spoke to groups with a broad array of perspectives on the issue.
"The secretary will accept every speaking invitation to highlight the need to fix the system now," said Michele A. Davis, Mr. O'Neill's spokeswoman.
It will be months at least before Mr. Bush settles on details of his proposal to allow workers a chance to invest part of their Social Security payroll taxes in stocks and bonds. Congress is unlikely to take up the issue before next year.
But as the maneuvering around Mr. O'Neill's appearance in New York suggests, the economic and political stakes are high, and both sides in the debate plan to be aggressive from the start.
In Virginia, Democrats are using a race for an open seat in the House to test advertising that criticizes Republicans for privatizing Social Security, and Democratic strategists say the commercials have been effective. Democrats say that any alliance between Wall Street and the administration on Social Security would give them new ammunition in their effort to portray Mr. Bush as a lackey of moneyed special interests.
Union officials, who have made fighting Mr. Bush's Social Security plan one of their main priorities, are threatening to boycott investment firms that actively promote the creation of private investment accounts.
Among Mr. Bush's allies, a variety of groups are formulating plans to push their side of the story to lawmakers and the public.
Supporters of private accounts recently formed the Universal Savers Alliance, a group that intends to build grass-roots support for the idea, in part by tapping into a network of activists who were involved in advocating term limits for politicians.
The Alliance for Worker Retirement Security, which is backed by the National Association of Manufacturers and other business groups, is hiring new staff members as it prepares to gear up its lobbying and public education efforts. This year it lost its director, Charles P. Blahous, to the White House, where he is staff director for the commission Mr. Bush appointed to come up with a specific plan for creating personal accounts.
Now some investment firms seem increasingly willing to enter the battle. Their participation in the debate could provide a well-heeled source of support for Mr. Bush. But it is also raising questions about whether their involvement is driven by a desire to cash in on the possible establishment of more than 100 million investment accounts, all of which would presumably be administered by Wall Street firms for a fee.
It is impossible to say how much is at stake for Wall Street because no one yet knows how a system of private accounts would work or how much money would flow into them. Opponents of personal accounts say they could generate billions of dollars a year -- perhaps even tens of billions of dollars a year -- in fees and commissions for investment firms.
As the debate over private accounts has developed over the last few years, investment companies have remained mostly on the sidelines, in part out of concern that they would become lightning rods for critics of changing Social Security. More than most industries, financial services companies have always sought to maintain good relationships on both sides of the aisle. In the last election cycle, securities and investment firms donated more than $90 million to candidates, the third-highest total of any industry, and 45 percent went to Democrats.
But a number of Wall Street and other financial services executives have been strong advocates of including personal accounts in any overhaul of Social Security. Among them are Donald B. Marron, the chairman of PaineWebber Inc.; William Shipman, a principal at State Street Global Advisors; and Wade Dokken, chief executive at American Skandia.
Mr. Petrizzo said reports that the business coalitions planned to raise $20 million to finance an advertising campaign to build support for personal accounts were unfounded. He said the Coalition for American Financial Security had been meeting with members of Congress, getting its Web site up and running and planning a series of public forums around the country. The question of advertising "hasn't been addressed yet," he said.
The group's primary goal, Mr. Petrizzo said, is "to help educate people that the current system is unsustainable." While its Web site does not specifically endorse any particular approach to Social Security reform, it is clearly sympathetic to proponents of personal accounts, praising Mr. Bush and offering a refutation of criticisms of privatization.
Advocates of personal accounts said they expected their grass-roots and advertising efforts to be substantial, if only to avoid leaving the field free to organized labor and other opponents.
"You can't just hold back and let the other guys shoot," said Michael Tanner, the head of the Social Security privatization program at the Cato Institute, a libertarian research group.
Opponents of personal accounts said they had no doubt that investment firms and big corporations would throw their money and their clout behind Mr. Bush. Expecting to be outspent by business in the campaign to win over public opinion, they said they would fight back in every way they could.
Richard Trumka, secretary-treasurer of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said he would urge union members and the trustees of union pension funds, in the United States and abroad, to stop doing business with any investment firm that works to promote the creation of personal Social Security accounts.
Managing the pension funds for unionized work forces is among the biggest and most competitive sectors of the investment business.
"They can't make money off us and then use the money they make off us to undermine our retirement security in the future," Mr. Trumka said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill backs private investment accounts for Social Security. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); BONDS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); STOCK INDEXES (66%) SOCIAL SECURITY (US); STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (81%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); AMERICAN SKANDIA LIFE ASSURANCE CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (56%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (81%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2001 



480 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 YEN SLIDES. The yen fell after the Bank of Japan became more pessimistic with its June economic outlook, signaling the country may be lapsing into a recession. In New York, the dollar settled at 123.36 yen, up from 123.08.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since December 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (87%); TRENDS (82%) CURRENCY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (59%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



481 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: 60 Percent Off: Can Labor Day Be Far Behind? 

BYLINE:  By GINIA BELLAFANTE 

 BODY:
One afternoon last week, a painter visiting New York from Sydney, Australia, found herself engaged in the kind of self-analysis that can be provoked only by an encounter with a pair of gold Fendi mules reduced to about half their original price of $700. The painter wondered if she might have inside her -- behind the demure black glasses and the brainy-looking Comme des Garcons dress -- the kind of woman who would slip into a pair of mules decorated with jeweled lizards, to meander around a swimming pool. 
 She decided not, but that didn't really matter, since she had already splurged on a Burberry leather jacket, a Helmut Lang dress and a pair of silk printed Dolce & Gabbana pants, among other things. A regular visitor to New York, the woman -- who did not want to give her name, out of embarrassment over the shopping expedition -- has had the good fortune to be in the city during the twice-a-year sales. This season, the pickings have been especially remarkable. "You can find everything absolutely everywhere," she said. "Last year I went home with only a couple of things." 
 A slowing economy coupled with spring collections that failed to energize women who love fashion has left the city feeling as if it were Woodbury Commons without the parking lot. Sales of spring and summer designer clothes, with markdowns of 30 to 40 percent, which usually begin around June 30, arrived up to three weeks earlier this year at stores uptown and down. A second wave of discounts of up to 60 percent is also coming earlier than usual. 
At Saks Fifth Avenue last week, a Marc Jacobs bordeaux silk blouse was on its second markdown, to $240, less than half the original $600 price. A single-layer camouflage tulle dress from Comme des Garcons, ruched at the breast, had failed to entice buyers at $2,060, and was now trying to do the job at $1,235. 
On Madison Avenue, the Barneys windows were dressed in the usual irony -- except this time it was a Fifth Avenue porcelain vendor's "everything must go" sale that was being sent up. "Summer Sale" read the big red letters on the windows, and inside were discount-chain sale signs with prices slashed in Magic Marker. (Brioni suit, 7th floor, $2,350, now $1,639.)
"This has been a tough season," said Kal Ruttenstein, the fashion director at Bloomingdale's. "People just weren't thrilled with everything in the stores. The collections weren't really newsy enough." 
What that means is that the collections could not be distilled into the sort of effusive, single-sentence proclamation ("It's all about 'Belle de Jour!' ") that helps keep the fashion economy fueled. On the one hand, women were presented with a revival of the 1980's that perhaps bore too close a resemblance to the original. Over a dozen asymmetrically worked Veronique Branquinho skirts that call to mind such a look lined a rack at Bergdorf Goodman last week, where they were selling for $299 -- $221 less than the full price a few months ago. On the other hand, the aberrant preppy look, as offered by the critically deified Miguel Adrover, is one that captured few women's imaginations, to judge from the racks of Mr. Adrover's navy and white pullovers, dresses and plaid jackets on display at Loehmann's and Saks Fifth Avenue.
"Just look at it," Rory Douglas Bradford, a sales associate at Saks, said of the excess Adrover spread before him. "It's horrible." 
The merits of the season's aesthetics aside, the sales calendar has been sped up by competition among stores to offer discounts earlier and earlier. Now large stores typically offer private sale nights for regular clients, known as "presales." Neiman Marcus in Atlanta, for example, offered an exclusive sale on summer clothes in April. Stores also hold clothes off the racks for favored clients until a sale begins.
The practices pressure other stores to discount early, too.
"It's not really what we want to do," said Linda Dresner, owner of the Park Avenue boutique that bears her name. "But what can we do? There's too much competition to flex your muscles."
It would be especially difficult for any store to remain competitive this season, when it has been possible to find Labor Day prices in early June. Typically, deep markdowns -- those exceeding 50 percent -- wait for July or August.
Some merchants say they moved up their sales earlier than usual to clear space for fall clothes, which seem to be arriving earlier each year. Last week, much of the Jil Sander fall collection was already in stores. Spring clothes had a shorter life span at full price this year because many designers, tripped up by production problems, shipped clothes later than usual, said Julie Gilhart, the fashion director at Barneys New York. Now that merchandise must be moved out en masse to make way for fall clothes. 
The high-end fashion client "doesn't want to be worrying about what she wants to wear when she needs to wear it," Ms. Gilhart asserted. In other words, this customer is thinking ahead -- ostensibly shopping for Capri pants in December and double-face cashmere dresses in June.
Jeffrey Kalinsky, the owner of Jeffrey, the store on West 14th Street, where everything but the shirt on the doorman seems to be on sale, said he is getting ready for fall arrivals. "I don't like to be on sale in August," he said. "I don't like people coming in for fall and seeing summer clothes."
Early this month, it was possible to wander into the Polo store on Madison Avenue and exit with a pair of floral sequined evening pants for $875 that had begun their life at $2,500. But what has amazed bargain seekers this season is that even clothes that are far more versatile seem to be discounted abundantly. "You can get a Helmut Lang suit in taupe that's not even reject-y," said Cricket Burns, an editor at Quest magazine. Ms. Burns bought such a suit at Barneys for 40 percent off. "You can get any Manolo in any size, when you used to just be able to find Size 5's or 6's this time of year."
Amid the sea of unloved merchandise, there are tales of success: clothes that sold well at full price. Mr. Bradford, the sales associate at Saks, who presides over the "advanced designer" department, is sometimes surprised at what makes its way out the door at full price. "You see some of this stuff and you think it's just going to sit here," he said.
"I mean gabardine sequined pants with horses!" he said, referring to a look from Chloe. "Gone."
People "are still calling me about those shirts with fruit," Mr. Bradford said with a certain disbelief. The shirts, also from Chloe, typically feature pineapples. To Mr. Bradford's right stood two slim racks of Chloe, Alexander McQueen, Narciso Rodriguez and Alberta Ferretti collections -- all that remained of the lines from eight Saks stores. "They," Mr. Bradford said, referring to the store's buyers, "should have put some more of their money there."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Piled high and marked down: Prada shoes at Barneys New York.; Summer sales started early at Barneys with signs saying prices on designer styles had been slashed.; Catching an early wave: well before most tans have reached even the semiserious stage, beach wear has already been put on sale at Bloomingdale's Manhattan store. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); Veronique Branquinho satin skirts like this one line sales racks at Bergdorf Goodman. (Dan Lecca for The New York Times); Miguel Adrover's subversive take on the conservative look proved less than successful. (Corina Lecca for The New York Times); The ruched camouflage look from Comme des Garcons failed to captivate. (Jean-Luce Hure for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); US LABOR DAY (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) APPAREL 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (50%) BELLAFANTE, GINIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (73%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



482 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: New Arena Hinges on Deal For an Old One 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., June 18 

 BODY:
The ground rules are simple: to complete a deal to build a new arena in Newark, officials must also put together a deal for the future of the Meadowlands sports complex, which would lose the Nets and Devils and their Continental Arena if an arena is built in Newark.
 But to make that trade-off work, officials are juggling a bewildering array of concerns and projects that could dramatically alter the face of the Meadowlands, changing it from a place where people go for special events to a center for shopping and recreation. 
 The projects range from the mundane, like recovering vast landfills and closing trash transfer stations, to the grandiose, like proposals for shiny new shopping malls and Disneyland-type sports and entertainment complexes all stitched together by new commuter rail connections.
Welcome to New Jersey's version of "Let's Make a Deal," in which nearly every Meadowlands proposal from the last decade is in play as officials race to put together a deal before the June 30 deadline that Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco set two weeks ago for approving a deal to build a $355 million sports arena in downtown Newark. The date coincides with the end of the legislative session and the state budget deadline. 
Lewis Eisenberg, an investment banker whom Governor DiFrancesco chose as his key negotiator, and Alan Steinberg, the executive director of the Hackensack Meadowlands Development Commission, both said that the many projects reflected a comprehensive approach to the Meadowlands.
The initial plan for the Meadowlands sports complex that would become vacant when the Nets and Devils decamped to Newark was to create a family entertainment and sports complex that would include indoor rock climbing and even fishing, an automobile racetrack for Nascar events and a retail and hotel complex.
But the discussions quickly expanded to a host of other Meadowlands proposals, both men said. Now the question is whether the intense focus on Meadowlands development will produce a helpful synergy of different projects or just turn into destructive logrolling with competing interests lobbying to get in on the action. "It's good, old-fashioned horse trading and there's nothing wrong with that," said Richard Codey, an Essex County state senator and the Democratic minority leader in the Senate.
The New Jersey transportation commissioner, Jack Weinstein, said the negotiations were providing a "pregnant moment" to press for agreement on construction of rail lines into the Meadowlands, a $724 million project that has been around as long as the Continental Arena, which opened in 1981.
Among those supporting the rail lines are backers of yet another proposed Meadowlands project to the south of the sports complex. The backers of a proposed $1 billion cluster of golf courses, hotel conference centers, restaurants and condominiums to be built on capped and resculptured landfills have seized on the current talks as an chance to advance their goal of getting a series of train stations at their locations.
Eric Wisler, a lawyer for EnCap Golf, the developer of the project on 1,000 acres of former landfill in south Bergen, said that "there are a whole bunch of moving parts" to the talks now going on. He said his client had long supported rail access to the Meadowlands.
Also in the negotiations, Bergen County officials said, is one of the still unresolved issues connected with the EnCap proposal: the amount of state aid the county would get for closing down a landfill and transfer station on land needed for the south Bergen project. EnCap developers have long insisted that the county trash sites would mar the vistas from the proposed links and the hotels.
Mandated by the state some 20 years ago as part of a statewide trash collection and disposal system, the county's site is supposed to pay off some $100 million in debt. But since federal courts overturned the state system four years ago and allowed municipalities to dispose of their trash in the most economical way, Bergen County has lost customers at the station and has had to pay off the debt out of a rapidly shrinking reserve fund.
Talks on closing down the station have always envisioned the state's paying something to the county to help with the debt. But now, taking advantage of the intense focus on Bergen, William Schuber, the Bergen County executive, and other officials are trying to get the state to wipe out the entire debt.
Since the courts overturned the state system, counties have unsuccessfully sought state assumption of the debts they incurred in complying with state policy. Should Bergen be successful in leveraging a state buyout of its debt, it will have succeeded where the combined clout of several counties in the state failed.
Mr. Wisler said that the EnCap plan had progressed quietly through the approval processes in the state, moving "just below the radar." Now, he said, he knows that the project will be caught up in the horse trading surrounding the Meadowlands.
"They would prefer that the project be considered on its merits," he said of his clients. "But they appreciate the synergy of the things being discussed and that it is the natural course of political events that some of this will spill over, especially as we head into the budget process. They know that you can't operate in this area in a vacuum."
Added to all this is the fate of a long-planned shopping mall, originally set for an environmentally sensitive portion of the Meadowlands but batted around for nearly a decade in the clash of growth and no-growth arguments. Some months ago, Mr. DiFrancesco announced his opposition to the proposed site of the mall on environmental ground and suggested that the developers might be interested in shifting their location to the current site of the Continental Arena.
David D'Onofrio, a spokesman for the Virginia-based Mills Corporation, which has been trying to develop the $1 billion Meadowlands Mills Mall, said that there had been renewed talks related to attempts to negotiate an agreement over the Newark arena. But he added that there was as yet no deal that would convince the developer to shift from its current site.
While the bargaining goes on in Bergen, officials in Newark and Essex County have been watching from the sidelines.
"We're in the ballpark on this, but on the sidelines willing to support anything that is reasonable for Bergen County," Mr. Codey said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); BASKETBALL (77%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); LANDFILLS (75%); GOVERNORS (74%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); AUTO RACING (72%); CLIMBING (72%); RETAILERS (70%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (70%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (69%); NASCAR RACING (67%); BUDGETS (66%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); RESTAURANTS (63%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (63%); LOBBYING (51%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; MEADOWLANDS SPORTS COMPLEX (EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ); BASKETBALL; HOCKEY, ICE; STADIUMS AND ARENAS 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (84%); NEW JERSEY NETS (84%) NEW JERSEY NETS; NEW JERSEY DEVILS 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



483 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Public Interests; 
Taking The Cure

BYLINE:  By GAIL COLLINS 

 BODY:
Just before the Civil War, a schoolteacher named Mary Waterbury went to a resort in Elmira, N.Y., for a "water cure." This involved being wrapped in a lot of wet sheets, and it was the sort of thing 19th-century Americans regarded as relaxing.
 At any rate, when she arrived Ms. Waterbury was greeted with knowing smirks when she declared her profession. "We have the most trouble with teachers of any class of patients," said the resort doctor. "They are worn out. They wear out faster than any other class of people." 
 Things have changed a lot since then -- for one thing, these days people in need of a pick-me-up do not generally look toward Elmira. But schoolteachers still wear out fast. "Within the first three to five years, roughly 50 percent of urban teachers leave the classroom," said Mildred Hudson, the chief executive officer of Recruiting New Teachers, a nonprofit information clearinghouse. Across the nation, nearly 10 percent of new teachers walk into the job and walk out again before they've had time to memorize the seating chart.
The nation will need two million new teachers over the next decade, and nobody has any clear idea of where they're going to come from. The passage of the big education initiative in Washington last week marked the federal government's greatest leap yet into establishing standards and requiring testing in the public schools. This is swell, but unfortunately it's also the easiest part of the package. The toughest part is finding qualified people to do the teaching that raises the scores and meets the standards. Neither Congress nor the Bush administration has had nearly as many helpful suggestions on that subject.
So Massachusetts is off recruiting teachers in California, which already has a whopping shortage of its own. California has been sending people to hire its faculty from New Mexico, waving signing bonuses of up to $20,000. American school districts have headhunters wandering around Europe, Australia, India and South Africa. As they return bearing their human cargo, they cross paths with the recruiters from Britain, who are beating the bushes for teachers here in America. Earlier this year in the State of the State speeches, virtually every governor promised that this year, he/she would corral a whole passel of instructors from elsewhere and bring them back in time for the next school year.
Is it possible the world actually has only a couple dozen sixth-grade math instructors, who are being perpetually shuffled from one education job fair to the next? Really, you could change jobs every semester. I am thinking of a TV series in which a restless special education teacher fights evil and protects the innocent while wandering from one scenic vacation spot to another. James Bond meets "Welcome Back, Kotter."
From the earliest days of the public school system, America kept its classrooms staffed by relying on the fact that there was a huge pool of educated women who had no other options. Boards of education could not only get away with paying the teachers next to nothing, they could make them live in the superintendent of schools' mother's back bedroom.
Now the last generation that thought there was no alternative to teaching is getting ready to retire. Everybody is racing to fill the gap. Some school districts are offering moving expenses or free rent, others are eyeing Army veterans and Peace Corps returnees. At least one state has invited people with only high school diplomas to substitute teach. 
Almost everybody's appealing to the midlife-career-change crowd, offering burned-out lawyers and accountants a crash course in how to run a classroom. New York City, which is scouring for about 10,000 new teachers, graduated about 400 people from this sort of program last year. Most are still in the classroom, and I have been assured that every one of them is planning a tell-all book.
Meanwhile in Paris, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has released a report that shows teachers in the United States spend far more time in the classroom and get less pay than teachers in many other developed countries.
Has all this flailing around and body-snatching just been an effort to avoid the fact that the salaries are too low? One cannot fail to notice that the American school districts that aren't troubled by shortages have adopted the below-the-belt tactic of paying more money. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (53%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; SHORTAGES 

PERSON: COLLINS, GAIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



484 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: U.S. AGENCY WIDENS ITS CURBS ON PRICE OF POWER IN WEST 

BYLINE:  By JEFF GERTH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18 

 BODY:
Broadening their efforts to rein in California's power crisis, federal regulators today ordered that restraints on electricity prices be applied at all hours and extended to 10 other states across the West.
 By extending the price limitations to the whole Western region, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission hopes to prevent electricity suppliers from exporting their power out of California to avoid the restraints that have applied only there. And by applying the restrictions to all hours, the commission hopes to cover all transactions in the spot market for electricity, where previously it covered only emergency periods. 
 The commission, whose action came as California faced a heat wave and warnings that power supplies could run short, asked power generators that have been accused of overcharging in California to settle their cases within a few weeks.
The broad outlines of the decision had been widely expected, as both Democrats and Republicans in Congress had urged stiffer measures to curb prices by the independent regulatory agency. In something of a surprise, the plan was supported by all five members of the often fractious commission, including William Massey, a Democrat who has complained in the past that the agency's actions have not gone far enough. 
The agency's chairman, Curt Hebert Jr., a Republican, said the approval of the plan meant it was "time to stop blaming and start solving the problem."
Gov. Gray Davis, who has attacked the commission for not taking enough action to address California's crisis, called the commission's action "a step in the right direction" but said that the federal government needed to do more to ensure that spot prices were reasonable and past overcharges addressed.
On Tuesday, commission members are to testify before a Democratic-controlled Senate committee examining Western electricity markets. Some Democrats want the agency to set prices based on each generator's cost of producing power.
The politics of energy prices, as well as the mounting public outcry over spiking prices and power blackouts, have transformed the commission from one of Washington's bureaucratic backwaters to the focus of heated debate. According to a new poll by The New York Times and CBS News, when asked if they favored or opposed putting price caps on power, 79 percent of respondents said they favored the caps. 
President Bush opposes price controls because he says they do nothing to increase supply while interfering with the market's ability to operate efficiently.
"To the extent that FERC's action represents a market-based approach and not price controls, we would view that positively," said Claire Buchan, White House deputy press secretary. 
Whether the government should intervene in electricity markets surfaced as an issue in today's meeting. Mr. Hebert emphasized that the plan was an effort to "restrain prices" through market incentives while Mr. Massey simply called the effort "price controls," an action that Republicans abhor.
The action is intended to let producers recover their fixed and capital costs but also tries to keep prices competitive based on a benchmark tied to market conditions.
This spring, the agency tried to restrain prices, only in California and only in times of emergency. Today's broader plan, which also affects Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, Utah, Arizona, Montana, Wyoming, Colorado and New Mexico, includes the following:
*The commission would monitor all wholesale spot-market prices for electricity in the West until Sept. 30, 2002. The order would also cover publicly controlled sellers, which previously had been exempt. Any price above a benchmark -- set at 85 percent of the highest clearing price -- would be subject to a refund.
*Sellers of power to California would be able to recover a 10 percent premium to reflect the credit risk for those sales. Mr. Massey and the other Democratic commissioner, Linda Breathitt, both expressed reservations about this provision, saying it was not needed.
*The commission calls for generators to reach a settlement within 15 days, working under the auspices of an administrative law judge. California regulators have assessed the overcharges in the billions, while the commission, which has jurisdiction over some but not all of the sellers, has been seeking refunds of up to $125 million.
Mr. Massey objected to this provision as well, saying the agency was shirking its responsibility to determine what constituted fair prices.
Today's action was the latest in a series of temporary efforts by the commission to address California's chaotic electricity market. The earlier efforts raised questions about the agency's ability to enforce its rules.
The Federal Power Act of 1935 requires that wholesale rates be "just and reasonable," but the commission never defined what it means as it moved toward competitive power markets. 
Late last year, after prices in California skyrocketed, the commission found that rates there were unjust and unreasonable, and attributed the situation to a flawed market. At the same time, it instituted a limited price cap of $150 a megawatt hour.
When that plan proved inadequate, the commission tried a different approach. In March, it ordered power generators to pay refunds if their prices exceeded the cost of the least efficient generator in California, but only during so-called Stage 3 emergencies in the state, when supplies fell to within 1.5 percent of demand.
In April, the agency broadened the plan by extending the March price-mitigation scheme to situations whenever supplies fell to within 7.5 percent of demand.
In its April order the commission also took its first steps toward defining what kinds of economic behavior might be unlawful in a competitive market. For example, it called on generators to supply all their available electricity, making the withholding of power subject to possible penalties.
That order took effect on May 29 and Mr. Hebert said today that as a result, "California consumers are better off today." 
In recent weeks, prices there have fallen to less than $100 a megawatt hour, compared with more than $300 earlier this year. State officials say that the long-term contracts they signed are a moderating influence. Today, Mr. Massey also credited other factors in the marketplace for the recent price drops.
But even if prices have eased and California is not just in a lull before a summer storm, the costs of power in the state are a far cry from where they were in 1998 or 1999, when the price averaged $30 a megawatt hour.
While Mr. Massey and Mr. Hebert often are at odds with each other, the political dynamic at the agency may have shifted in recent weeks with the addition of two new Republican commissioners: Pat Wood 3rd, a former Texas regulator and associate of President Bush, and Nora M. Brownell, who served on Pennsylvania's utility commission.
Today, Mr. Wood showered praise on his fellow commissioners, including a comment that a lot of Mr. Massey's earlier dissents had "shown up in this order." 
 --------------------

Pension Fund Group Acts
 The board of the California Public Employees' Retirement System, the nation's largest pension fund at $152 billion in assets, voted 7 to 4 yesterday to send a special delegation to some of the companies that generate and distribute power to California. The delegation, which is to include Mayor Willie L. Brown Jr. of San Francisco, will express concerns about the business practices of companies like Enron, Reliant Energy and Mirant during California's energy crisis and how those practices will affect the long-term performance of their stocks, according to Philip Angelides, the state's treasurer and a Calpers board member. 
Calpers has about $4.4 billion invested in the stock and bonds of power producers, distributors and utilities. 
"This goes beyond our normal corporate governance activities," Mr. Angelides said. "It was a chance to express our extraordinary level of concern."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clockwise from upper left are Daniel L. Larchamp of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's staff; its chairman, Curt Hebert; Commissioner Pat Wood III and Kevin Madden, the general counsel. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); SPOT MARKET (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); TESTIMONY (74%); APPROVALS (73%); WEATHER (70%); POLITICS (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SHORTAGES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (91%) FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) GERTH, JEFF; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA; WESTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



485 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: In Albany, No Budget Deal but a Month's Worth of Money 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 18 

 BODY:
As Republicans and Democrats blame each other for the lack of a budget agreement, the State Legislature appropriated $9.7 billion today to keep the government running for the next month.
 But the Democrats who control the Assembly and the Republican majority in the Senate failed to agree with the governor on a companion bill that would spell out how the money should be spent and that would extend several important laws set to expire at the end of June. 
 Among the laws about to expire are a measure that allows New Yorkers to live in commercial lofts, a program that extends health insurance to indigent children, the Quick Draw lottery game, the state low-interest mortgage program and a law requiring police officers to arrest people suspected of domestic violence.
Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, has proposed extending several of these laws for one or two years, but Democrats in the Assembly have resisted that idea, arguing that decisions on how long the laws are extended should be taken as part of the overall budget, legislative aides said. The governor has also tried to cut Medicaid payments for nursing homes in the extension bill, something he proposed in his executive budget, but the Assembly shot the idea down. 
Despite these disagreements, the Legislature was compelled to pass an appropriations bill today so that state workers could receive their paychecks on Wednesday.
The debate over the appropriations in both houses turned into an exercise in partisan finger-pointing. 
Assembly Democrats continued to blame the governor, saying he has avoided Albany and has refused to enter into negotiations about how much can be added to his executive spending plan of $83.6 billion.
"The governor has given us a budget and said take it or leave it," Herman D. Farrell, the chairman of the Assembly Ways and Means committee, said during the debate. "Where's the governor? Why is he not here when he should be here negotiating?"
In a radio interview, the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, said, "The governor is just not around, not available, not engaged in what people think are the major issues that this legislative session should produce."
Republicans accused Democrats of foot-dragging. They argue that the governor fulfilled his responsibility in January when he submitted his budget and that it is now up to the two houses to either pass his budget or modify it. Echoing the governor, they also charged that the Assembly's calls to spend more than $2 billion more than the governor's plan were irresponsible given the shaky economy. "Where we differ is on where is the economy going," John Faso, the Assembly minority leader said on the floor. "They are basing their projections in the future by looking in the rearview mirror at the economy of the past."
Some Senate Democrats in the minority said the Senate, which plans to recess on Wednesday, should remain in Albany and work on getting a budget done instead of passing the emergency spending bill.
"We're sending the wrong message to the public," said Senator Eric T. Schneiderman, a Manhattan Democrat. "Let's not take a month off."
The Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, laid the blame for the budget impasse and the emergency spending bills, which now total more than $30 billion, on Mr. Silver and his party. For eight weeks, Senator Bruno has been calling on Mr. Silver to attend a conference committee to hammer out a compromise budget. 
"We are prepared and have been prepared to negotiate our differences in public," Mr. Bruno said to Democrats during the debate. "We don't have the Democratic representatives in the conference committee. That is on your shoulders and on none others."
Mr. Silver has refused to attend the conference committee unless the governor first agrees to an overall spending number and promises not to resort to large-scale vetoes of Democratic programs if the budget remains under that amount. In 1998, Mr. Silver and Senator Bruno worked out a budget without the governor, and Mr. Pataki vetoed more than 1,000 expenditures, most of them Democratic pet projects.
"We would have to be idiots to negotiate without the governor's involvement," said Assemblyman Albert Vann, a Democrat of Brooklyn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); APPROPRIATIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); MEDICAID (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); NURSING HOMES (70%); LOTTERIES (55%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (54%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



486 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: Casinos Recast Prison Town as a Boom City 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: JOLIET, Ill. 

 BODY:
Joliet's listless black canal once carried treated sewage from Chicago, 40 miles to the north, through the core of a decrepit downtown where gangs roamed freely. Well into the 1980's, with the city's steel and machinery factories vanishing, unemployment reached 20 percent. About the only noteworthy thing left in Joliet was its maximum-security state prison.
 But in a single decade, this once-dismal relic of the rust belt has burst into the ranks of the nation's boom towns. 
 Joliet's population has leaped 38 percent since 1990, to 106,000, nearly three times the national rate, according to the 2000 census. With the sole exceptions of Joliet and two other Chicago-area cities, Naperville and Aurora, all 50 of the fastest-growing cities with populations exceeding 100,000 are far away, in the South, Southwest and West. 
Hispanic immigration contributed to Joliet's growth, as did spillover from Chicago, where the population grew 4 percent in the decade. But the real spur to Joliet's growth is an industry that sprang from the banks of the old sewer and barge canal: riverboat gambling.
Joliet's casinos attract 400,000 visitors a month. As the city's biggest employers, with 3,400 workers, the casinos pay $100 million in wages and have helped drive unemployment down to 6 percent. The city has used its flush treasury to wipe out its debt, cut its share of homeowner taxes by 30 percent, freeze water fees and eliminate a $25 tax on automobiles. With subsidies and tax breaks, it has lured a 75,000-seat Nascar race track to its outskirts.
"We have fought so hard to overcome the prison reputation," said John M. Mezera, Joliet's city manager. Today, banners on telephone poles proclaim Joliet a finalist in the All-American City competition.
"It's our time," said Robert D. Fraser, the city's treasurer and budget director. "We're finally feeling it."
People here acknowledge that the transformation has come with costs. Schools and jails are bursting, and the city's rapid sprawl is gobbling surrounding farmland. Roads are torn up, clogged with traffic, detour signs and digging machines.
"There's been a profound change in how we look at ourselves," said Stephen Belford, a lawyer downtown. "We were always trying to achieve something better, to move on up." But with the gambling-driven spread of new subdivisions, "we've become an advocate of suburban sprawl."
There are social costs, too, both here and in the surrounding towns, where Gamblers Anonymous groups have cropped up as fast as the subdivisions.
But to some people here, concerns about sprawl and out-of-control gamblers seem a luxury, compared with the dark days before the casinos.
With nine riverboat casinos, including the Empress and Harrah's in Joliet, the Chicago region has become the nation's third-largest gambling area, after Las Vegas and Atlantic City. Illinois's plunge into gambling came in response to fears that it would lose businesses to neighboring Iowa, which legalized riverboat gambling in 1990.
Later that year, the Illinois Legislature approved casino gambling in its rusting river towns. Unlike Iowa, which set a $200 limit on a gambler's daily losses, Illinois set no limit.
Within weeks, casino companies were courting Illinois cities like Joliet, Aurora, Alton and East St. Louis. By 1992, Joliet had the Empress, and a year later, Harrah's.
The typical gambler here lives 25 miles away and does not leave the casinos to patronize the city's merchants, according to the latest state gambling data. He or she loses money -- an average of $125.45 per visitor at Harrah's in April, the state data show -- and then is directed by signs in the casinos' garages to Interstate 80, the fastest road out.
The city charges a dollar-a-head admission tax from the casinos and another tax on the money wagered, collecting more than $200 million over nine years -- and currently $30 million a year.
Though the downtown is lined with abandoned stores, the canal has been cleaned. Nobody calls it the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal anymore; it is the Des Plaines River. Ground has been broken on a minor league baseball stadium. Renovation of the abandoned Louis Joliet Hotel into 60 apartments is under way, and a sports bar will soon open in the restored but still barren Union Station.
"We're becoming an entertainment venue, a destination place," said James M. Haller, director of community and economic development.
To aid growth, the city has been pushing water and sewer lines into cheap farmland where developers have been caving subdivisions of three- and four-bedroom homes that sell for $100,000 to $200,000, well below prices closer to Chicago.
Before the boats came, Joliet built 16 new homes a month. In May, said Mr. Mezera, building began on a record 220. An unabashed promoter of such growth, he said: "It's the house top count. When it gets high enough, you get all the good things." The next good thing, he said, might be a Starbucks. 
Yet the homeowners, predominantly young families, sell almost as fast as they buy, said Doug Geissler, a real estate broker. "There's a ton of turnover," he said.
"Developers want to develop every square foot in sight," Mr. Geissler said. "The houses they're throwing up now -- three-inch walls. People don't care about how the houses are built."
Joseph L. Mikan, chief executive of Will County, whose hub is Joliet, said: "You have to question the quality of life. People have the idea that they're getting into the country, and all of a sudden they see home developers with 100 and 150 acres who put 400 homes on them, or more."
In the Lakewood Falls subdivision, Van Eldridge, 30, manager of a tire store, paid $118,000 two years ago for a three-bedroom duplex. He doubts that he and his wife and their children will be there for long. "Two years ago," Mr. Eldridge said, "we were pretty much out of the congested area, and now we're not."
Some longer-term residents of Joliet are worried about other, less visible problems associated with the gambling boom. In Chicago and its surroundings, compulsive gamblers attend weekly Gamblers Anonymous meetings in 43 communities, all of which have opened since riverboat gambling began in Joliet. Tom, an automobile sales manager who is in his mid-50's, attends every Monday at Joliet's First Presbyterian church. Attendance, he said, has climbed from 3 or 4 six years ago to more than 20. 
Experts say that addicted and pathological gamblers make up 2 to 5 percent of all gamblers; 2 percent of the 400,000 admissions to the Joliet casinos is 8,000.
Three years ago in Joliet alone, John Renzi, a lawyer here who specializes in personal bankruptcy, said he would file three or four gambling-related bankruptcy petitions a year. "Now," he said, "it's one a month."
Patrick O'Neil, coroner of Will County, attributes "eight or nine" suicides in the 90's to gambling. He said the last was a 48-year-old chemist who drank acid after losing $177,000 at Harrah's and the Empress. 
Dr. Alex Spadoni, a psychiatrist who specializes in addiction treatment at Provena St. Joseph's Medical Center in Joliet, said he saw several gambling-related suicide attempts a year.
"They don't say they gamble," said Kim McCarl, a counselor at the Family Counseling Agency for Will and Grundy Counties in Joliet, which helps debt-ridden clients come to grips with their bills. "They say, 'My interest rates on my credit cards are so high I need help paying them off.' Then you see a huge cash advance on the bottom. You ask why. 'Oh, I go to the boats.' " 
Mimi Kambic, the agency's credit counseling manager, said, "The problem we see -- people don't see they have a problem. We know it's out there, but they're not coming to us for assistance yet."
She said, "We're trying to make Joliet the not-the-prison town, and to be known for riverboats. I don't know if that's so good either."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John M. Mezera, the city manager, left, and James M. Haller, director of community and economic development, herald Joliet's freshened image.; Harrah's, one of two casinos in Joliet, Ill., has helped reverse the fortunes of the town, which is one of the fastest-growing cities in the United States. (Photographs by Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)(pg. A20); Before the casinos arrived in Joliet, Ill., 16 houses were built there each month. In May, a record 220 were built. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)(pg. A1) Graph: "WINNERS: A Stronger Economy With Casinos"Since the opening on riverboat casinos in Joliet, Ill., in 1991, the city has experienced a drop in unemployment and a sharp rise in tax revenue and building permits. Graph tracks tax revenue, unemployment and single family home building permits since 1995.(Sources: Illinois Dept. of Employment Security; City of Joliet Dept. of Finance and Dept. of Inspection)(pg. A20) Map of Illinois shows the location of Joliet: The prosperity in Joliet, Ill., has attracted developers to the city. (pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GAMING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); CASINOS (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); TRENDS (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CENSUS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); REFUGEES (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (67%); LAND USE PLANNING (67%); SUBURBS (65%); NASCAR RACING (63%) GAMBLING; CASINOS; WAGES AND SALARIES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TAXATION; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FINANCES; LABOR; WATER; PROPERTY TAXES; AUTOMOBILES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T; FRASER, ROBERT D; MEZERA, JOHN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) JOLIET (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



487 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Tunnel Vision; 
Bags of Joy, Pungent And Lucky

BYLINE:  By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
Officially, of course, it will always be the B train.
But just take it on any given Sunday evening, along about half of its southerly course, and you might agree that it would not be much of an exaggeration to give the subway line a subtitle: the Fish Train.
 "Whoa, man, it smells like fish in here," said Ramon Vasquez, a hotel maintenance worker. 
 On Sunday, Mr. Vasquez was on his way home to Brooklyn aboard a sparsely populated B train when a bracing aroma boarded at the Grand Street station in Chinatown. It got on along with about 20 Chinese-American Brooklynites, each carrying two armfuls of diaphanous, bright orange plastic bags bulging with all manner of food -- sweet-potato leaves, flowering chives, slender purple eggplant, brown litchi -- but, first and foremost, with fish. 
"Why?" asked Jin Hua Chung, a steam-press operator who moved to Bensonhurst from Chinatown five years ago, but still buys fish only on Mott Street. "Because I like fresh, that's why, and only Chinatown gives me fresh," said Mr. Chung, 60, from one of whose orange plastic bags poked the head of a good-size tilapia, which had been yanked live from a fish market tank only a couple of minutes before. (He and his wife share kitchen duties. "But I am the better cook," he says.)
The Sunday subway fish migration has been growing for a long time now, as Chinese immigrants have fanned out in greater numbers from Manhattan to Brooklyn neighborhoods and yet seem to return en masse to Manhattan on weekends to do all their food shopping.
It can be seen to some degree on a number of trains that serve other Chinatowns -- the N and R to Brooklyn; the 6 train from Canal Street to Grand Central, where the fish make their transfer to the 7 and back to Flushing. But the migration is at its most concentrated, and pungent, aboard the B train, which provides the fastest way to get from Chinatown to Sunset Park, the largest Chinese-American enclave in Brooklyn.
And on a nice, late-spring Sunday, it can seem as if thousands of pounds of fish are making their way to Brooklyn along the B, bag by plastic bag, tucked beneath the feet of thousands of riders, bound for thousands of steamers and soup pots.
Among the exporters on Sunday was a 35-year-old man named Wu -- "Just Wu, please" -- waiting by the turnstiles for his wife, who does all the fish shopping for their family. (He is in charge of the vegetables.)
There was Ying Hsu, a law student, and her boyfriend, Dan Goldschmidt, a lawyer, who had found what they needed and were bound for Brooklyn. "I just got salmon," reported Ms. Hsu, almost sheepishly. "A very generic American fish."
There was Lisa Mui, an unemployed bartender from Sheepshead Bay who had accompanied her mother on a grocery run.
"I love the scene," said Ms. Mui, who had elaborate fingernails and a pierced tongue. "I do love the scene. But to be honest, it's really all about the food." (Later, asked whether the chicken they bought in Chinatown tasted better than supermarket chicken, she rolled her eyes and glanced at her mother, and said, "As long as it doesn't talk to me when I eat it, it's fine by me.")
The contest for most popular whole fish Sunday seemed to be a dead heat between striped bass and tilapia, a type of African lake fish that is now widely farmed around the world and has become a staple in many Chinese homes. (Tilapia is also said to have been the fish that Jesus multiplied along with the loaves to feed the multitudes.)
The contest for most widely used color of plastic shopping bag was not even close: deep jack-o'-lantern orange, which has become a kind of calling card of Chinatown groceries and fishmongers. Bright red ran a distant second, and pink third.
"Orange is a lucky color, that's why," said Kenny Tran, a manager at the Tan My My Market, on the corner of Chrystie Street and Grand, close enough to the subway entrance to hit with a scallop. "Black looks horrible. And white? You know why people don't use white? Because white is always for the dead."
While Sunday's fish migration seemed festive enough -- one man was seen lugging home a case of Budweiser along with his catch -- there was a lot of noticeable mourning going on, too, because by the end of the summer, the Fish Train will be no more, at least for a while.
Repairs to the Manhattan Bridge will mean that the B will not run to Grand Street, and the station will be nearly shut down, for more than two years. The fish will still make their way to Brooklyn, of course, but probably in smaller schools, on different trains. It might even be difficult to smell which ones.
And Mr. Chung is not happy. "They say this is a developed country?" he said. "If they knew this bridge was going to have so many problems, why couldn't they have built another one?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Imagine these bags in bright orange, the color that dots the B train on Sundays as shoppers return from trips to the fishmongers of Chinatown. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (88%); TRAINS (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (75%); IMMIGRATION (64%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; RESTAURANTS; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; CHINATOWN (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



488 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1935 words

HEADLINE: China Justice: Swift Passage To Execution 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: BEIBAISHA, China 

 BODY:
Nothing in Hao Fengqin's abbreviated life suggested that she would end her days on an execution ground. 
 The 45-year-old Ms. Hao lived a hard life in this village of low brick houses, set in wheat fields 200 miles south of Beijing. She was born poor and married poor, and she bore two daughters, considered a misfortune in rural China because girls traditionally leave the family after they marry and offer little support to their parents later on. 
 But Ms. Hao unwittingly sold explosives for a mass murder: a man named Jin Ruchao was found guilty of killing 108 people with some of Ms. Hao's homemade ammonium nitrate, which she sold to nearby quarries and which was the type of explosive that brought down the federal building in Oklahoma City in 1995, killing 168 people. 
Like Timothy J. McVeigh, Mr. Jin was executed, though his death was swifter and less gentle: he was shot in the back of the head, the usual method of capital punishment here, just 37 days after his arrest and less than seven weeks after the crime. 
For her unintentional role in the bombing, Ms. Hao was shot in the head too, one month after the police took her away from her home. Typically, someone found guilty of making and selling unlicensed explosives would have been fined. 
China has made great strides in enforcing the rule of law for commercial transactions, particularly those involving foreigners. But without more uniform enforcement of the law in other areas, and in the absence of institutions like a free press and a strong judiciary, the country continues to rule most of its people in the same brutal way it has for centuries: by occasionally singling out a suspect for severe punishment as a warning -- "killing a chicken to scare the monkeys," as an ancient Chinese saying goes.
There is a randomness to who dies, given that many technically criminal activities flourish across China. Those practices are considered only moderately risky because they are so widespread. But there is always the threat of death for an unlucky few at the ever-shifting perimeter of tolerance.
Since 1983, Beijing has mounted periodic "Strike Hard" campaigns to eliminate a changing list of crimes. The campaigns have resulted in tens of thousands of executions, more each year than in the rest of the world combined. Amnesty International said the Chinese press reported at least 4,367 executions in 1996 -- about a dozen a day -- during that year's Strike Hard campaign.
China is in the midst of another such campaign now, focused on corruption. The number of executions, which rights groups say had begun to subside, is again on the rise. One Western diplomat said his government counted 800 reported executions in May alone. The real number may be much higher; many executions are never reported.
It is impossible for the average lawbreaker to know when the government will crack down on a particular activity. But when it does, Chinese justice is swift, often unexpected and, in cases like Ms. Hao's, unmerciful.
A decade ago, for example, smuggling was largely ignored and smugglers' markets operated openly in many port cities. The People's Liberation Army was one of the worst offenders. Then the government cracked down to stem the loss of badly needed tax revenue, and that caught many people in the smuggling chain by surprise. Hundreds of people have since been put to death for the crime.
But there is little long-lasting deterrent from such campaigns; as the intensity of the crackdown inevitably wanes, old practices return. Organizing prostitution is also punishable by death, for example, but the sex trade is rampant.
Ms. Hao graduated from high school, making her one of the best educated people in this village, where few people speak standard Mandarin, conversing instead in a local patois. Her schooling helped her survive after her husband fell ill 11 years ago. She supported her family any way she could, baking cakes, raising chickens, selling shoes, keeping the books for a friend's small factory.
After her husband died from a blood clot two years ago, she learned how to make ammonium nitrate, a common fertilizer but also a powerful explosive that is in high demand among the small quarries that pock the razor-back hills near her home.
In March last year, she began mixing explosives with a neighbor, Wang Yushun, in an empty building in the village, local residents said. Like thousands of other explosive-makers on the fringe of quarries and mines across China, Ms. Hao and Mr. Wang operated without a license.
Two months after she started up the business, the police say, a mute man appeared at her home and indicated that he was looking for someone to supply inexpensive explosives to a small quarry. He bought a sample of about four pounds of ammonium nitrate from her. His name was Jin Ruchao.
Then on March 12 this year, Mr. Jin returned wearing a green padded-cotton overcoat against the dry, frigid air. He wrote on a piece of paper that he wanted to buy half a ton of ammonium nitrate, not an unusual order for a quarry.
Ms. Hao and Mr. Wang mixed the explosives the next day and packed 1,300 pounds of it in 11 yellow chicken-feed sacks. Mr. Jin came back that afternoon and paid 40 yuan for 55 pounds, saying he wanted to test the batch first.
He paid for all 11 bags the next day, and Mr. Wang gave him a key to the warehouse where the bags were stored so he could remove the explosives at his convenience. Ms. Hao and her colleague pocketed a total of 980 yuan, about $118, earning a modest profit.
Two days after he bought the gray, granular powder, Mr. Jin bombed four apartment houses in Shijiazhuang, a nearby provincial capital, killing 108 people. The police said he acted in revenge against relatives who had angered him.
Ms. Hao recognized Mr. Jin in the next day's newspaper. She fled to a nearby orchard and spent two nights in a pump house.
The police knew where to look for the likely source of the ammonium nitrate. On March 18, they swept through the villages below the quarry-flecked hills, shutting down illegal explosives shops and detaining more than 100 people. In Beibaisha, they seized Mr. Wang and put up posters calling for the arrest of Ms. Hao. They finally caught her, on March 20 at 1:20 a.m., after she returned to her home from the orchard.
Mr. Jin was found a few days later and confessed to the bombings. He named Ms. Hao as the woman who had provided the explosives.
At her trial on April 17, which lasted less than an hour, Ms. Hao insisted that she did not know she needed a license to make or sell explosives and had no idea Mr. Jin was lying when he said he needed the explosives for a quarry. 
In China, judgment is often based on the consequences of a crime, not just the action or intention. And the criminal code gives the courts great leeway in deciding the severity of punishments, so such decisions vary widely depending on the political climate in which they are made.
People caught making unlicensed explosives near Ms. Hao's home in the past were simply fined, local residents say. According to Section 125 of China's Criminal Law, making, selling, storing or transporting illegal explosives is punishable by 3 to 10 years in prison. But the law allows harsher penalties, including death, in very serious cases.
On April 18, the court in Shijia zhuang sentenced Mr. Jin, Ms. Hao and Mr. Wang to death, along with Hu Xiaohong, a man from a nearby quarry who had sold Mr. Jin 50 detonators and 20 paper fuses for 33 yuan, or about $4.
The four filed appeals, but on April 29, the Hebei provincial court rejected them all. It did suspend Mr. Hu's sentence for two years and returned him to jail. If he behaves during that time, his sentence will be commuted to life in prison. The Hebei court's ruling was final.
Mr. Jin, Ms. Hao and Mr. Wang, bound with rope, were taken from the court and placed in the open beds of three trucks for a ritual parade through town before heading to the execution ground. There, each was taken out, forced to kneel, then shot.
Ms. Hao's case was exacerbated by the central government's growing frustration with deaths caused by unlicensed explosives. Just a week before Mr. Jin's bombing, the government was embarrassed by a blast that killed 42 people, almost all children, who were reportedly assembling fireworks in a school.
It also reflects China's growing fear of domestic terrorism, for which readily available explosives could be used. The country was rattled by a brief spate of bombings in the mid-1990's that were blamed on Islamic separatists from China's western provinces.
"It's a pity," said Zhang Tao, a young Shijiazhuang native. "They got such a harsh sentence because so many people died, but if they knew what the explosives were going to be used for, they wouldn't have sold the stuff, especially for so little money."
While China's mainstream press showed no sympathy in reporting the executions of Ms. Hao and Mr. Wang, publications and Web sites catering to China's small legal community expressed a cautious ambivalence.
A Beijing University law professor, Xian Han, argued on one site that because Ms. Hao and Mr. Wang had no inkling of Mr. Jin's murderous intentions, there was no direct legal causality between the sale of explosives and the bombing. He added that the two would have received far lighter sentences, if they had been prosecuted at all, had Mr. Jin not used the explosives to murder.
"Our society can only be truly stable when everybody's basic constitutional rights are guaranteed," Professor Xian wrote.
Hu Yunteng, a lawyer and death penalty expert in Beijing, said there is a consensus forming in China's academic and legal communities that the country should use the death penalty less, particularly for nonviolent crimes.
"Economic crimes can be controlled without the death penalty," he argued. "The rise in these crimes shows that the country's legal and management systems are flawed and that the legal system isn't playing its proper role."
Currently, 68 kinds of crimes are punishable by death, including 28 that are not violent. Those include embezzlement, tax fraud, illegal financial schemes and accepting bribes totaling more than $12,000.
As China's once centrally planned economy continues its fitful transition to a market economy, the incidence of those crimes has soared. "From this point of view, the scope of the death penalty is definitely expanding," Mr. Hu said.
Near Beibaisha, hardscrabble hills are gouged with quarries that blast out stone and crush it into gravel or feed it to the cement mills nearby. At one small quarry, paper strips recently glued across the doors of a storage shed warn that people in charge of the explosives should register with the Public Security Bureau.
Fresh white six-foot characters on Beibaisha's gray brick wall facing the road read: "Crack Down Harshly on the Violent Crimes of Bombing, Arson and Murder." 
The mention of Hao Fengqin's name brings an uneasy silence. Her neighbors all express sorrow for her fate. A rusting padlock hangs on the bamboo gate to the courtyard of her small house, which is markedly shabbier than most others. Her younger daughter, in high school, has been sent to live with another family.
Her elder daughter, in her early 20's, works at a small chicken-feed mill a few villages away. She emerged recently from the mill's yellow-walled compound to meet a visitor. She wore a black T-shirt, her round, ruddy face strikingly similar to her mother's. She had nothing to say, however, having been warned not to talk about her mother's case.
"My mother just died," she said softly when pressed to speak. "It's impossible." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jin Ruchao, above, was convicted of blowing up four buildings in March, killing 108 people, because he was angry at relatives there. He was executed a half hour after this photo was taken in April. Hao Fengqin, below, who unwittingly sold explosives to Mr. Jin, was convicted with equal dispatch. Here, she is being led out of an appeals court in April directly to her execution, less than a month after her arrest. (Photographs by Chinese state media)(pg. A10) Map of China shows the location of Beibaisha: A crackdown trapped a seemingly innocent woman in Beibaisha. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (87%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); BOMBINGS (75%); HEAD INJURIES (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); TERRORISM (70%); ETHICS (69%); CORRUPTION (67%); ARRESTS (67%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (64%) CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ETHICS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (59%) AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S; HAO FENGQIN; JIN RUCHAO 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) CHINA; BEIBAISHA (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



489 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Chancellor Orders Hiring Freeze At School Board's Central Office 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy has ordered an immediate freeze on hiring of administrators at the Board of Education's central offices, according to a memorandum released by the chancellor's office yesterday.
 The memorandum cited a looming restructuring of the central office and an expected budget shortfall of as much as $120 million in the fiscal year that begins next month. 
 The hiring freeze, which is the third action by Mr. Levy this year aimed at reducing the central bureaucracy, will not affect either school-based positions or the offices of the community school districts, according to the memo, which was dated Friday. 
In February, Mr. Levy announced a program to reduce the operating expenses of the central board by about $20 million. The same month, the chancellor enlisted McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm, to study the central board's structure and recommend changes.
Anthony Shorris, the deputy chancellor for management and policy, said in an interview yesterday that board departments had already begun receiving recommendations from the McKinsey study, which will be made public this summer. 
Mr. Shorris said about 3,000 people worked in administrative positions for the central board, a number that will be "substantially smaller" after the restructuring.
This is the first self-imposed hiring freeze at the Board of Education since 1994, when Ramon C. Cortines, the chancellor at the time, halted new hiring and began eliminating positions from the central staff, which then numbered 3,600.
The size of the central board has been the subject of ongoing battles between City Hall and the Board of Education. In reaching a budget agreement earlier this month, the mayor and City Council agreed that they would consider allotting additional funds this fall to the Board of Education for school-based programs if the board demonstrates that it is cutting the size of the bureaucracy.
The newly approved budget for the Board of Education includes an increase of $50 million in city funds and an overall increase of $200 million, for a total spending plan of $11.5 billion. But board officials say that $120 million of spending will have to be cut just to keep pace with inflation and mandated cost increases.
Board officials also reject the notion that their administrative budget has grown rapidly. In the fiscal year that ends June 30, the board expects to spend $285 million on central administration, down from $288 million a year earlier.
The central board also has told the community school districts that they should not expect to keep unspent money from this year for use in the next fiscal year. Beverly Donohue, chief financial officer for the board, said yesterday that the budget would allow for only about $10 million in rollovers, far less than the community districts were expected to claim. Last year, community districts rolled over a net amount of $44.5 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CITIES (86%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MAYORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LABOR 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; LEVY, HAROLD O (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



490 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Oracle Beats 4th-Quarter Expectations By a Penny

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 18 

 BODY:
The Oracle Corporation reported today that its earnings slightly exceeded analyst expectations even though revenue from licensing its software had dropped off from the same period a year ago.
 Jeffrey O. Henley, the chief financial officer, described the year as a "roller coaster." But he said the company was sensing an improvement in the macroeconomic conditions that he blamed for the disappointing revenue, and he said he expected business to be flat for the current quarter, and then to pick up as the year ensued. 
 As for Oracle's fourth fiscal quarter, the company said it earned 15 cents a share, or $854.9 million. That is equal to last year's earnings-per-share figure, excluding one-time revenue accrued from the sale of shares of Oracle Japan, and it is a penny above expectations of analysts.
The earnings came on revenue for the quarter of $3.26 billion, down from $3.37 billion last year, a drop-off Mr. Henley said was attributable to softer-than-expected sales in Europe compounding the existing slowdown of the United States economy and the "implosion of the dot-com world."
Analysts cautioned not too read too much into Oracle's exceeding the earnings expectations of Wall Street because those estimates were based on Oracle's own guidance, given at the beginning of the quarter.
The quarter reflected mixed results for Oracle's two main software businesses, database and applications. Revenue from the database business was $1.235 billion, roughly the same as a year ago.
More troubling, analysts said, were sales of applications -- software that companies use to automate many facets of their business -- which Oracle has sought to make a larger percentage of its overall product mix. For the quarter, the company's applications revenue was $338 million, down 24 percent from the period a year ago.
"The applications were extremely disappointing," said Mark Verbeck, a research analyst with Epoch Partners, an investment bank. "They expected application revenue to be up 15 percent."
In an interview, Mr. Henley blamed larger economic conditions for the slower-than-desired revenue from applications, but he also said the rollout of the new applications software, Oracle 11i, introduced last year, "took longer to sort out than expected." 
Lawrence J. Ellison, the chief executive, said in a conference call with investors that the application was in full swing and that the company would make "huge gains" in that segment.
More generally, Mr. Henley said the macroeconomic conditions seemed to be easing. In the fourth quarter, "it feels like we hit rock bottom," he said.
"If anything, demand appears to be getting a bit better," he said.
For the current quarter, Oracle's first fiscal quarter, Mr. Henley projected the company's licensing businesses would be flat, and that its earnings per share would be around 8 cents, the same as the first fiscal quarter of a year ago.
The fourth quarter "was definitely a challenge -- as we expected," Mr. Henley said. "The bottom line is we got through it." 
James C. Mendelson, an analyst with Wit Soundview, said he was pleasantly surprised by the revenue generated by Oracle's database business, and he said that figure could grow given the release last week of the company's next-generation database, the 9i. "The database number looks a lot healthier than I expected and apps looks a bit weaker," he said. "It's another quarter where the apps business is not as strong as they suggested."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence J. Ellison, chief executive of Oracle, said new applications software would make gains. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (98%); ORACLE JAPAN KK (56%); EPOCH PARTNERS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORACLE CORP 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (98%); ORC (FRA) (56%); 4716 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (98%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (98%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (58%) RICHTEL, MATT; HENLEY, JEFFREY O 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



491 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
European Officials Appear Conciliatory on G.E. Deal
The European Commission appeared to narrow the distance between what General Electric has offered and what the commission has demanded for approval of G.E.'s $45 billion purchase of Honeywell International.
 In a statement, the commission said it would accept an offer short of a sale of G.E.'s aircraft leasing unit. Some people close to the commission interpreted the statement as a conciliatory move. Page C4. 

American companies intent on preventing rivals from merging are increasingly complaining to European regulators more than to permissive United States officials. A1.

Sell-Off Pulls Nasdaq Below 2,000
Wall Street punished technology stocks, sending the Nasdaq composite index to its first close below 2,000 since mid-April. The Nasdaq fell 39.80 points, or nearly 2 percent, to 1,988.63. The Dow Jones industrial average managed a small advance, rising 21.74 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,645.38. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 5.93 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,208.43. C10.

Price Limits Extended on Power
Broadening efforts to rein in California's power crisis, regulators ordered that restraints on prices be applied at all hours and extended them to 10 other Western states. A1.

New York, California and Connecticut and several environmental and consumer groups are going to court to try to stop the Bush administration's decision to weaken efficiency standards for central air conditioners. A20.

Wrigley Returning to Times Square
Another classic American brand, Wrigley chewing gum, is to return to Times Square with a splashy, oversized illuminated billboard known in outdoor-advertising circles as a spectacular. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C6.

AMR Loss to Exceed Expectations
AMR, the owner of American Airlines and Trans World Airlines, said it would report a far greater quarterly loss than previously expected and would begin retiring aging airplanes ahead of schedule to cut costs. C7.

Oracle Results Beat Forecasts
Oracle's fiscal fourth-quarter results beat analysts' reduced expectations by a penny as overall revenue fell 3.3 percent. The quarter reflected mixed results for Oracle's two main software businesses, database and applications. But Lawrence J. Ellison, Oracle's chief executive, predicted the company would make "huge gains" in the applications software segment with Oracle 11i, which was introduced last year. C5.

The Allure, and Risk, of Hedge Funds
While many hedge funds cushioned the effect of last year's market decline, there were some spectacular failures. Market Place. C8.

Lackluster Trading for Statoil Stock
The Norwegian government sold about 18 percent of Statoil in Oslo and New York, raising $2.9 billion. But in both places, the share price remained fairly static, near the bottom of the range of $7.13 to $8.22 a share. C7.

Argentina Unveils Economic Plan
Argentina has announced a complex set of new economic policies, including the installation of multiple exchange rates, a move that effectively amounts to a devaluation to help the country's exporters. But the plan was met by sharp criticism. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,645.38 up 21.74Nasdaq composite -- 1,988.63 down 39.8010-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.25% up 0.01The euro -- $0.8607 down 0.0011The dollar -- 123.36 yen up 0.28 Graph: "TODAY" shows figures for housing construction from November 2000 through April 2001. May figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -1.2% Chart: "Nasdaq Composite" tracks daily closes from March through June. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); APPROVALS (78%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); COMPANY LOSSES (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (84%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (72%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); HON (NYSE) (58%); HON (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (72%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (50%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); NORWAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



492 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
4 Top Officers Leave San Francisco Office

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
The four top executives at the San Francisco office of the British agency Leagas Delaney are leaving, they said, because of disagreements over the course of the agency.
 The owners of Leagas Delaney are considering selling to a larger, worldwide agency company. 
"They have opportunities to grow and keep growing," said Courtney Buechert, managing director of the office. 
 But "top managers suddenly become global executives, learn foreign currencies and sit on airplanes," Mr. Buechert said, while he and his colleagues "enjoy growing a little company into a midsize company."
The office is the sole American outpost of Leagas Delaney. Besides Mr. Buechert, those leaving are Harry Cocciolo and Sean Ehringer, creative directors, and Rob Kabus, director for strategic planning.
"Even people as committed as Harry, Sean, Courtney and Rob will sometimes have other ambitions that they need to satisfy," Tim Delaney, chief executive at Leagas Delaney, said in a statement. "We are grateful to them for all their outstanding work, which has enabled us to establish the Leagas Delaney brand in the U.S."
Leagas Delaney has been negotiating for several months to be acquired by the Envoy Communications Group in Toronto, but the talks have stalled because of the softening advertising economy. The San Francisco office is to remain open, as Vince Engel takes on many of the duties of the departing executives as president and executive creative director; he had most recently been executive creative director at the San Francisco office of Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide, part of the Lowe Group unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies; that office is now closed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (54%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (84%); MERUS LABS INTERNATIONAL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGAS DELANEY 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (91%); MSLI (NASDAQ) (55%); MSL (TSX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; BUECHERT, COURTNEY; COCCIOLO, HARRY; EHRINGER, SEAN; ABUS, ROB 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



493 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: America's Hispanic Future 

BYLINE:  By Lorenzo Albacete; Msgr. Lorenzo Albacete, a theologian, is the former president of the Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico.

 BODY:
The Spanish-language television network Univision has been putting up billboards all over New York City. One in particular struck me, given the census figures showing Hispanics to be the country's largest minority. It called Univision as "American as flan." (Flan, for those Americans devoted to apple pie, is a custard.) The ad made me wonder about the significance of this newest challenge to the American melting pot.
 The appearance of the Univision signs reflects the growing importance of the Hispanic market. The census figures have awakened politicians as well -- everyone is looking for Hispanic votes. President Bush became the first president to deliver a White House address in Spanish. As Richard Rodriguez wrote on this page, Mr. Bush seems to be seeking the title of our first Hispanic president. 
 At the other end of the political spectrum, the Rev. Al Sharpton has offered his sufferings in jail as a gesture of solidarity with Puerto Ricans demanding that the Navy abandon its military exercises on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques. The Catholic archbishop of San Juan addressed a joint session of the New York State Legislature, while Gov. George Pataki has joined other mainland politicians in traveling to Puerto Rico to demand the end of the Vieques bombing. 
Apparently as a result of Hispanic pressure, President Bush decided, against the advice of many military experts, that the Navy would leave Vieques in two years. Sometimes it looked this year as if the Puerto Rican Day Parade had as many politicians carrying the flag of Vieques as it had salsa dancers. And on its cover, Time officially welcomed us to "Amexica."
None of this is particularly surprising in a nation of immigrants actively supporting political causes "back home" while rapidly assimilating into the dominant American culture. Still, modern Hispanic immigration differs from past waves. Unlike the Irish, Italians and Eastern Europeans, Hispanics can come and go easily, thanks to the proximity of lands of origin. Means of social communication, like Univision, allow them to remain in constant contact. This cultural continuity is strengthened and protected by the present emphasis on multiculturalism and bilingual educational programs and by the growing use of Spanish in government and private industry. The interesting question is whether all this constitutes something so unusual that the Hispanic presence could someday make a significant difference in the dominant culture.
There is no one Hispanic culture across the Latin nations. Puerto Ricans, Dominicans, Mexicans, Salvadorans and Cubans can be as culturally different from each other as the varieties of Europeans remain culturally distinct, despite efforts at political unity. The issue, however, is the situation not in Latin America, but here in the United States.
It is in the United States that the consciousness of being part of a single Hispanic world -- absent in Latin America -- has been emerging as varied Hispanic peoples experience identical conflicts with North American culture. These conflicts occur at a level much deeper than the economic or political; they involve different ways of perceiving, evaluating and standing before reality itself.
Such conflicts are essentially religious, since religion originates in the experience of the meaning and sense of life. This religious sense is the most important factor in the emergence and endurance of cultures; and however various Hispanic cultures may be, they have a common origin in the encounter between 16th-century Iberian Catholicism and the religiosity of the inhabitants of this continent. (In many parts of the Hispanic world, this cultural formation also includes African religious traditions.) The dominant North American culture, however, has at its root the encounter between Anglo-Protestant religious convictions and the Enlightenment.
These two worlds seem fundamentally incompatible. A Mexican friend of mine, pursuing a degree in a Mexican institute associated with an American university, tells me that lecturers from the United States teach that if Mexico really wants to join the "first world," it must shed "Catholic attitudes" that stand in the way.
The conflict between cultures shaped by Latin American Catholic experience and the dominant American culture can be seen in the puzzlement of conservatives and liberals pursuing the Hispanic vote. For example, conservatives find that Hispanics share with them important social values but support liberal views on the role of government in assisting the poor -- positions that have their origin in Catholic social thought.
This body of doctrine does not regard private property and its economic benefits as absolute goods. They are subject to the good of society. The state has an obligation to ensure that inequalities do not keep the poor from obtaining employment with a fair wage and finding adequate housing, health care and family assistance.
In the last decades, due in large part to the influence of Latin American Catholicism and the struggles over liberation theology, the church has embraced what is called the preferential option for the poor, which sees meeting the needs of the poor as the moral measure of economic policies.
At the same time, Catholic social doctrine recognizes the private sector as the creator of wealth and limits state intervention to cases of injustice which other social institutions have failed to resolve.
The Latin Catholic view also insists that the spiritual life be recognized as part of the social good. According to the census, around 70 percent of Hispanics identify themselves as Catholic. This doesn't mean that each one is a practicing Catholic. Many are, in fact, abandoning the church in favor of Protestant evangelical communities. (A Catholic friend, invited to the White House for a meeting between Hispanic religious leaders and the president to discuss faith-based social assistance, told me that the overwhelming majority of those present were evangelical leaders.) This trend could eliminate the historically rooted experience among Hispanics of being a Catholic people. It would, indeed, lead to the assimilation of Hispanics into Protestant American culture and so weaken the possibility of a distinctly Hispanic influence on American life.
For the time being, however, 70 percent of American Hispanics identify as Catholic, and that is not a small number. Unless the population share drops dramatically, it seems that Hispanic cultural influence will largely be guided by a Catholic social view. 
But we cannot seriously imagine that this outlook will triumph over the dominant culture. After all, it is, in part, the benefits of this dominant culture that attract immigrants. What could happen is the creation of a new cultural mix that will bring together presently incompatible attitudes.
Will the Catholic church in the United States see the Hispanic presence as an opportunity to offer a way of forming a cohesive community that could transcend divisions between liberal and conservative politics? Unfortunately, efforts by Hispanic Catholic leaders in the 1970's and 80's to move the church to challenge the individualistic priorities of the dominant culture seem to have lost momentum under the demands of a secularist multiculturalism that is essentially static. At the same time, because Protestantism is so much at the root of mainstream America, Hispanic Protestants cannot have a transformative effect on their new country. Without a basis in their uniquely Latin American Catholic experience, Hispanics may find their influence in the United States will indeed be no more significant than a taste for flan.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Peter Kuper) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); TRENDS (78%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); REFUGEES (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (67%); BOMBINGS (67%); RELIGION (67%); PARADES & MARCHES (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (52%); DANCERS (50%) POPULATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CENSUS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (82%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) CENSUS BUREAU 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%); AL SHARPTON (52%) ALBACETE, LORENZO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); PUERTO RICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



494 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Dressed as Tooth Fairy, I.R.S. Will Drop a Note to Millions 

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18 

 BODY:
The letter is written in the congratulatory tone of a college acceptance letter or a telegram to a sweepstakes winner. The message is certainly appealing, a welcome surprise given that the letterhead will read: Internal Revenue Service.
 "You will be receiving a check," the letter says. "You need to take no additional steps." 
 "We are pleased to inform you that the United States Congress passed -- and President George W. Bush signed into law -- the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001, which provides long-term tax relief for all Americans who pay income taxes."
"The new tax law provides immediate tax relief in 2001 and long-term tax relief for the years to come," it continues, adding that the check to follow will be "just the first installment of the long-term tax relief provided by the new law."
Congressional Democrats say they received a draft copy of the letter from outraged career employees of the Internal Revenue Service who, they say, were alarmed by what they considered its political, promotional tone.
The letter is about to be mailed to the 91.6 million taxpayers who are entitled to tax rebates under the $1.3 trillion tax cut package approved by Congress last month at the urging of the White House. 
The advance letters are scheduled to be mailed before July 15, with the first of the checks -- up to $300 per individual, up to $600 per married couple -- sent out the week of July 22.
"It sounds like a P.R. piece for the administration," said Larry Noble, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit group that seeks to publicize government waste and campaign-finance abuses. 
"I've never heard of anything like this," Mr. Noble added, "certainly not from the I.R.S., certainly not with this rah-rah tone. It's outrageous."
Frank Keith, a spokesman for the Internal Revenue Service, said that the letter was a collaborative effort between the agency and its parent, the Treasury Department, and that he knew of no internal grumbling about its tone. 
"I would point out that the letter contains the information that we believe the taxpayer needs," including the size of the check that will follow and how it was calculated, Mr. Keith said. He said he did not know the cost to the government for the mass mailing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); TAX LAW (93%); TAX RELIEF (92%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); SWEEPSTAKES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); APPROVALS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); SALES REBATES (57%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REBATES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SHENON, PHILIP 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



495 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
After more than 40 years, Wrigley is set for a flashy return to Times Square.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
ANOTHER classic American brand, Wrigley, is to return to Times Square with a splashy, oversized illuminated billboard known in outdoor-advertising circles as a spectacular.
 The billboard, scheduled to be completed in mid-September, will promote the many gum brands sold by the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company. It will be at 1500 Broadway, between 43rd and 44th Streets, next to the ABC-TV studio that broadcasts "Good Morning America," "20/20" and other news shows. The site is now occupied by a static "teaser" sign that urges passers-by to watch for what is breathlessly described as "Wrigley's historic return!" to Times Square. 
 The billboard, which is to include neon, a video screen, a backlighted lightbox and a zipper-style message board, will be a block south of the site occupied by Wrigley's Spearmint gum from 1936 to 1960 -- with a brief hiatus during World War II -- where a spectacular presented elaborate tableaux with underwater and other themes. Wrigley's presence in Times Square dates to 1917, with a block-long spectacular for P.K. gum that featured peacocks and anthropomorphic characters called "spearmen."
The Wrigley comeback is taking place as the demand for carnival-style signs in Times Square, torrid until last year, is slackening somewhat because of the softening economy. Here and there, empty spaces are visible like teeth missing from a youngster's mouth. Still, the number of such billboards will grow because of requirements that new buildings in the district give space to huge blinking, winking ad displays.
The return of Wrigley is indicative of the increasing attention being paid by giant marketers to places where pedestrian and automobile traffic concentrate as they seek to get brand names in front of consumers by any means necessary.
Times Square is a place "a phenomenal amount of people move through," said Rory Finlay, senior director for consumer marketing at Wrigley in Chicago. "This allows us to do some 'pervasive branding' that really connects Wrigley brands with consumers." In a telephone interview yesterday, he discussed details of Wrigley's plans, scheduled to be announced today.
One detail Mr. Finlay declined to discuss was cost. Advertisers can pay $15,000 to $100,000 a month for billboards in Times Square; the most visible and elaborate of spectaculars, like the Suntory Whiskey sign at 2 Times Square, are estimated to cost $2.5 million a year to lease.
"As we move forward, our vision is weaving our brands into the everyday lives of consumers around the world," Mr. Finlay said. "The sign will be very engaging and will really break through."
In Times Square, where cleanups and construction have combined to overcome decades of decay that chased away most mainstream advertisers, other returnees include Anheuser-Busch, for Budweiser beer; Coca-Cola, for its flagship soft drink; General Motors, for the Cadillac division; and Mr. Peanut, peddling the Planters line of nuts and snacks now owned by Philip Morris.
"Times Square has undergone a reincarnation," Mr. Finlay said. "And there's a lot of attention paid to the location we've been able to capture" because it appears on television programs for networks including ABC and MTV, as well as during coverage of events like the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade and the New Year's Eve celebrations.
"We can show multiple brand messages" aimed at different audiences at different times of the day, Mr. Finlay said; for instance, "as the kids are waiting outside the MTV studios" in the afternoons for "Total Request Live," he said, Wrigley "can run advertising relevant to them" like a campaign for Doublemint gum centered on the tennis stars Venus and Serena Williams or a campaign for Orbit, a new brand of sugar-free gum.
The new Wrigley billboard is being designed and built by Spectacolor Media in New York, a joint venture of Spectacolor Communications and the Eller Media Company division of Clear Channel Communications. It is to be 52 feet wide and 31.5 feet tall in an area leased from the Walt Disney Company, parent of ABC, which controls the space on 1500 Broadway next to its studio.
"It's great to see Wrigley come back," said George Stonbely, chairman at Spectacolor, adding: "They were out of Times Square for many years, when Times Square took a nose dive. It's a vote of confidence in what's been done in Times Square in the past 5 or 10 years."
Asked whether there are other onetime Times Square advertisers that ought to return to the neighborhood, Mr. Stonbely replied, "I think we may have gotten most of them, but there are a lot of great new brands that ought to be there, making the statement only Times Square can make."
To many, the statement Times Square now makes is, "All right, already!" as the many new signs on new buildings contribute to a cacophony that seems to diminish the effectiveness of each billboard.
Mr. Finlay said he did not think the district was overcluttered, adding: "Things have been done to make Times Square a great place to be. This is a great opportunity to capitalize on."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Wrigley sign above covered one side of Broadway from 44th to 45th Streets from 1939 to 1942. The company will return to the area in September with a modern sign at Broadway and 43rd Street, where a 'teaser' billboard stands. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); (Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BRANDING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (78%); CONFECTIONERY (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); WORLD WAR II (67%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (50%) CANDY; ADVERTISING; OUTDOOR ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: WILLIAM WRIGLEY JR CO (94%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WRIGLEY, WM. JR, CO 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (94%); SIC2067 CHEWING GUM (94%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (50%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (50%) SIC2067 CHEWING GUM; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) TIMES SQUARE AND 42ND STREET (NYC)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



496 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Showdown Looms as Democrats Move to Burst G.O.P. Budget 

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18 

 BODY:
With Democrats now in control of the Senate and House Republicans eager to find money for their favorite hometown projects, Congress appears to be ready to try to bust the federal budget for next year.
 Democratic leaders say they cannot live with the spending limits that were imposed in the $2 trillion budget for government spending adopted last month, when Republicans controlled both chambers of the Congress. 
 The White House, they say, should be prepared for a budget showdown now that Democrats run the Senate and share direction of the appropriations process, the annual ritual in which Congress writes legislation to authorize the payment of the government's bills.
Senator Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who is the new chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, described the Republican-written budget as a "fraud" that set artificially low spending limits in order to pay for the $1.3 trillion tax-cut package sought by President Bush and approved by Congress last month.
Senator Robert C. Byrd, the West Virginia Democrat who became chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee this month, said that many domestic programs were already dangerously underfinanced, and that Republicans were already gearing up to blame the Democrats for violating the spending limits in the budget. 
"I hear the distant thunder of political canonry being leveled at the new majority -- and the appropriators, in particular," said Senator Byrd, who is likely to be a particular target of the Republicans, given his reputation for pushing money to projects in his home state.
"The dice are loaded," Senator Byrd said. "The deck is stacked."
The White House says it will enforce the budget numbers, even if that requires the threat of a presidential veto of some of the 13 Congressional appropriations bills that must be passed and signed into law by Oct. 1, when the new fiscal year begins. The Republican budget would raise government spending next year by 4 percent, about half the rate of growth approved last year.
"We really hope the question doesn't arise," said Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the president's budget director, of the veto threat. "But the president has to sign these bills before the money goes out the door. There has been a lot of gimmickry in the appropriations process in recent years, and I think we ought to work together to minimize it."
An example of the crunch faced by Congress and the White House involves the education bill passed last week by the Senate, which would greatly increase the role of the federal government in local school systems. Many of the bill's most important provisions were endorsed by President Bush; some were cornerstones of his presidential campaign.
But while the bill calls for billions of dollars in additional education spending over the next several years, none of that money is accounted for in the $661 billion budget that Congress approved for discretionary government spending for next year.
The White House is expecting Congress to find savings elsewhere to pay for education programs; many Democrats say there is nowhere to cut without draining money from other, critical government programs or without a politically disastrous raid on surpluses in the Social Security and Medicare programs.
Nor did the budget specify how the government would pay for as much as $20 billion in extra spending that the Pentagon is expected to request this summer, on top of a defense budget that already totals $325 billion next year. The Bush administration says the additional money for the Pentagon can be found in the anticipated federal surplus next year.
But Senator Conrad, who will have extraordinary power under the budget law to accept or reject the Pentagon's extra request, said the projected federal surplus -- about $1 trillion over the next decade -- might prove illusory because of recent shakiness in the economy.
"We will need to make revisions in the economic forecast given the slowdown in the economy," he said last week. "I think there is very much a sense in this town, in this institution, that there's money for more tax cuts, that there's more money for more spending. What I'm trying to send is a very clear signal here that I don't believe that's the case."
House Republican leaders say that they take the president's veto threat seriously, and that they will try to hold to the president's budget figures.
But increasingly, Republicans -- alarmed that favorite agencies and programs will be underfinanced in the budget, including projects that directly affect voters in their districts -- are finding it difficult to show discipline.
Last week, Republican members of the House Appropriations Committee repeatedly defied the spending limits established by the White House as they debated budgets for politically popular agriculture and natural-resources projects.
Eleven Republicans on the committee joined with Democrats in approving an amendment to add $150 million in emergency assistance for apple farmers. Many Republicans joined in voting that an additional $814 million be spent on natural-resources programs beyond the budget requested by the president. And the committee agreed to spend $184 million more than the president had proposed for energy research.
"A lot of apples are grown in a lot of members' districts," said Representative C. W. Young, the Florida Republican who is chairman of the House Appropriations Committee.
"Somebody asked me, is this issue Democrat or Republican, is this liberal or conservative?" Mr. Young said. "No. This is pure geography. If you have apples, you're going to vote for the amendment."
The committee's ranking Democrat, Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, said he had recently been approached in an elevator by a moderate Republican on the committee who thanked him for challenging White House efforts to cut popular domestic programs.
"He said, 'Well, Dave, you're the conscience of the committee,' " Mr. Obey recalled. "The most miserable people in this place are moderate Republicans."

A CLOSER LOOK
Budget Issues That Divide Congress and the White House

As Congress begins working in earnest on drafting the 13 appropriations bills that decide how the federal budget will be divided among government programs next year, the White House and Democratic Congressional leaders are deeply divided over several issues.

Among them are the following:

SIZE OF THE BUDGET. A budget resolution that Congress passed last month, when Republicans controlled both the House and the Senate, capped day-to-day spending at $661 billion next year. Democrats, who now control the Senate, say the spending limits are artificially low, to allow the Republicans' $1.3 trillion tax cut package.

EDUCATION. Congress is moving toward passage of an education bill that would sharply expand federal involvement in local schools. President Bush sought many of the provisions. The budget for next year does not provide for billions of dollars in new spending for education, and the White House says the money must be taken from elsewhere in the budget. Democrats say there is nowhere else to cut.

MILITARY. The budget makes no provision for more than $10 billion in extra spending that the Defense Department is expected to request later this summer. The White House says the money can come from the federal surplus anticipated next year. Democrats say the surplus may be illusory because of the recent economic downturn.

ENERGY, WATER, AGRICULTURE. The new chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, wants to add $2.7 billion to the Republican-written budget for federal water and energy programs and $700 million to the agriculture budget. The White House is expected to resist the increases. PHILIP SHENON

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and administration officials met with agricultural leaders yesterday in the East Room. Increased spending for agriculture is expected to be requested for the budget. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); VETO (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); EDUCATION LAW (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX RELIEF (53%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); KENT CONRAD (58%); MITCH DANIELS (58%); ROBERT BYRD (58%) SHENON, PHILIP; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



497 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Businesses Turn to Europe To Bar Mergers 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
American companies intent on preventing rivals from merging are increasingly complaining to European regulators in preference to more permissive officials in the United States.
 In the most striking example so far of the Europeans' newfound power over businesses based in the United States, General Electric's planned $45 billion acquisition of Honeywell International may be scuttled by European regulators in spite of approval for the deal in Washington. 
 G.E.'s domestic rivals, including United Technologies of Hartford and Rockwell International of Milwaukee, have taken the lead in lobbying European regulators in Brussels to block the transaction. John F. Welch Jr., G.E.'s chief executive, flew to Brussels last week to defend his case.
The Europeans' jurisdiction in cases involving American businesses is far reaching: generally an American merger that would result in a company with more than $225 million in annual revenue from Europe falls under the domain of the European competition commissioner, Mario Monti. 
Other American companies, like Walt Disney and Sun Microsystems, have pressed the Europeans to investigate mergers and other possibly anticompetitive practices by their domestic rivals. Disney successfully pushed the Europeans to force AOL to make important concessions in its $165 billion acquisition of Time Warner. Sun Microsystems successfully lobbied the European Commission, the executive arm of the 15-nation European Union, to investigate Microsoft's dominance in software for computer servers.
Complaints by Advanced Micro Devices, a computer chip maker, helped persuade the Europeans to investigate the marketing practices of Intel, the world's leading producer of computer microprocessors.
GTE successfully helped push the Europeans to block the planned $130 billion purchase of Sprint by WorldCom. That deal was rejected, too, in Washington, but only after the European Commission ruled that the merged company could not do business in Europe.
And American companies may now be even more likely to take their complaints of unfair competition to European officials, executives and lawyers say, because of their perception that under President Bush, the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission are less likely to press antitrust issues than in the Clinton administration.
"If you are a competitor, you want to go where you will get a sympathetic hearing," said Glenn B. Manishin, an antitrust lawyer at Patton Boggs in Washington, who has brought several complaints to European authorities. "And given the signal George W. sent by appointing Timothy Muris to run the F.T.C., the preference is to go to the E.U. first." Mr. Muris, who had been a top antitrust official in the Reagan administration, is expected by specialists to take a less aggressive approach in prosecuting monopoly cases.
Worried that their deals could be quashed by regulators in Europe, American executives are making their own pre-emptive pilgrimages there. A. G. Lafley, Procter & Gamble's chief executive, and Douglas N. Daft, Coca-Cola's chief, recently went together to Brussels to explain their new joint venture to sell snacks and juice and fruit-flavored drinks.
The Europeans have stepped up their policing of corporate behavior under their competition commissioner, Mr. Monti, a Yale-educated Italian economist. Mr. Monti helped kill the WorldCom-Sprint deal and effectively forced Time Warner to abandon the acquisition of EMI, the big music group.
Yesterday, he assailed G.E. for trying to use political pressure and accused the company of spreading misinformation, even as the commission seemed to be inviting a compromise.
Mr. Monti, a supporter of vigilant antitrust enforcement, and his European colleagues have more power than regulators in the United States. His 60-member office is a branch of the European Commission, and the parent European Union almost always approves its recommendations. Unlike American agencies, the commission can block deals without going to court. To appeal a ruling, companies must petition the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, which is regarded as an ally of the commission. 
The agency has regularly taken on American companies and their deals with scant attention to the position of United States government officials. That latitude has alarmed American chief executives and politicians alike. "The European regulators' demands exceeded anything I or our European advisers imagined," Mr. Welch of G.E. said last week, "and differed sharply from antitrust counterparts in the U.S. and Canada." 
President Bush told reporters in Warsaw on Friday that he was concerned by the commission's opposition to the deal. "I am concerned that the Europeans have rejected it," he said, noting that administration officials had brought the case up with officials there.
Only rarely has foreign political pressure forced the commission's hand. In 1997, the Clinton White House threatened trade sanctions when the commission prepared to block the planned acquisition by Boeing of McDonnell Douglas. The Europeans relented after imposing strict conditions for their approval of the transaction.
Although Mr. Monti has talked about cooperating and harmonizing antitrust controls between Europe and the United States, the two seem to work less and less in tandem.
European regulators continue to press their investigation of Microsoft's server software, while the Bush Justice Department has yet to take a position on Microsoft's federal court appeal against District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's order to break up the company, a case vigorously pursued by Clinton officials.
The Europeans' case against Microsoft has been supported in large part by testimony from Sun Microsystems, a producer of advanced computer servers and programming language and an important rival of Microsoft, which has sent lawyers to Brussels to pursue accusations of anticompetitive behavior.
In cases where American regulators seem likely to reject a deal to protect consumer interests, the Europeans often value the protection of competing companies, antitrust lawyers say. As a result, European Commission officials rely much more on feedback from rival companies than agencies in the Unites States do, giving the American petitioners another powerful forum. Even in cursory reviews, the Europeans ask competitors that could be affected by a deal to submit opinions.
Mr. Monti dismisses the notion, advanced by his corporate targets, that the commission's approach drives it to block deals unfairly on behalf of rivals. "We are sufficiently non-naive," he said at a meeting of the American Bar Association in March, "as to be able to discount the elements provided by competitors for their vested interests. Competitors are a rather powerful source of overall assessment of mergers and potentially for the identification of remedies."
The European stance against a company's use of a strong position in one market to achieve dominance in another -- tying, or bundling, as the practice is called -- is also considerably tougher than the posture of American regulators, some lawyers said. The European Commission worries that G.E.'s aircraft-leasing company, the world's largest, could decide to buy only Honeywell avionics for its jets, or that G.E. could use its strong jet engine business to bolster sales of Honeywell avionics, shutting out competitors like United Technologies and Rockwell.
Complaints from American companies do not always succeed. Last year, Lockheed Martin protested against Boeing's acquisition of the satellite business of Hughes Electronics. The objection pushed European officials to extend their investigation into the deal, but in the end, it was approved without any concessions. In fact, it was the Federal Trade Commission that forced the companies to make some compromises.
Nor have European Commission officials avoided troublesome deals at home. A year ago, objections by Mr. Monti forced Sweden's two big truck manufacturers, Volvo and Scania, to abandon plans for a $7 billion merger.
Still, American executives seeking to block their rivals' deals count on a European willingness to intervene. As Peter Thonis, who led GTE's public relations and policy office as the company lobbied in Europe against the WorldCom-Sprint merger put it, "Where you have a global enterprise, even if you're American, the Europeans play a big role."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); MERGERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); MICROPROCESSORS (86%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); LAWYERS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); COMPUTER CHIPS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (68%); NETWORK SERVERS (65%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (62%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); PATTON BOGGS LLP (57%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%); WALT DISNEY CO (55%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%); INTEL CORP (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (54%); COCA-COLA CO (50%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (82%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%) GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); HON (NYSE) (58%); HON (LSE) (58%); UTX (NYSE) (57%); DIS (NYSE) (55%); VZC (LSE) (54%); VZ (NYSE) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); AMD (NYSE) (54%); AMD (FRA) (54%); KO (NYSE) (50%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); ALAN LAFLEY (57%); JACK WELCH (57%) SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; MONTI, MARIO; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



498 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: PUTIN SAYS RUSSIA WOULD ADD ARMS TO COUNTER SHIELD 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 18 

 BODY:
President Vladimir V. Putin said today that if the United States proceeded on its own to construct a missile defense shield over its territory and that of its allies, Russia would eventually upgrade its strategic nuclear arsenal with multiple warheads -- reversing an achievement of arms control in recent decades -- to ensure that it would be able to overwhelm such a shield.
 Mr. Putin made his comments in a meeting with American correspondents that lasted nearly three hours tonight and was organized last week to give him an opportunity to explain his views after his summit meeting with President Bush in Slovenia on Saturday. 
 The Russian leader emphasized that though he is buoyed by Mr. Bush's pledge that Washington and Moscow will work cooperatively in coming months to investigate the full ramifications of Mr. Bush's vision for a new security framework that includes missile defenses, Russia is also very alert to unilateral American actions. 
And in response to comments made Sunday in Washington by Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, that the United States would proceed with missile defense with or without Russia, Mr. Putin said Russia would not threaten or try to prevent American actions, but would "augment" its nuclear forces without regard to treaties that now require the elimination of multiple warheads. 
"When we hear statements that the programs would go with us or without us, well, we cannot force anyone to do the things we would like them to," he said. "We offer our cooperation. We offer to work jointly. If there is no need that such joint work is needed, well, suit yourself."
However, Mr. Putin added, "we stand ready" to respond to any unilateral American action, even though Russia does not see an immediate threat from a missile shield.
"I am confident that at least for the coming 25 years" American missile defenses "will not cause any substantial damage to the national security of Russia," he said. But he added, "We will reinforce our capability" by "mounting multiple warheads on our missiles" and "that will cost us a meager sum." And so, he said, "the nuclear arsenal of Russia will be augmented multifold." 
He said both the Start I and Start II treaties would be negated by an American decision to build missile defenses in violation of the Antiballistic Missile Treaty of 1972. Such a step would eliminate verification and inspection requirements, he said, reviving an era in which Russia would hide its abilities and intentions.
Mr. Putin said Russia was ready to move expeditiously on talks with Mr. Bush's top aides, but he said he believed that the two sides first needed to discuss whether serious threats actually existed or might emerge in the future, then determine what missile defense technologies might be brought to bear against them, and then determine what provisions of the ABM treaty came into conflict with such a system. 
Speaking in the Kremlin library at the round conference table where he met President Clinton last year, Mr. Putin also stated for the first time that Russia had taken an interest in ensuring that China's strategic concerns are addressed in the debate. 
China has a much smaller nuclear missile force and fears that its national nuclear deterrent would be nullified by missile defenses. 
"One must be very careful here," he said. "The transparency of our action is very important, lest none of the nuclear powers would feel abandoned or that two countries are making agreements behind their backs."
Asked if he had made a commitment to China, he replied, "there is a commitment to preserve the balance of security that we have now in the world as a whole and in this sense, China is an important element, and not only China." Mr. Putin said the United States should bear in mind China's strong economic potential and its growing ability to respond to national security threats.
He said what concerned him most was that a unilateral American deployment of missile defenses could "result in a hectic, uncontrolled arms race on the borders of our country and neighboring countries." 
Mr. Putin said he reported to the Chinese president, Jiang Zemin, by telephone today the results of the meeting and Mr. Bush's message about a cooperative approach to examining threats to international security. Mr. Jiang and Mr. Putin met last week in Shanghai with Central Asian leaders to form a security and trade cooperation pact. 
Speaking through an interpreter, Mr. Putin joked that he had tried to speak some English with Mr. Bush, but he said he feared that Mr. Bush had only pretended to understand him. 
He also spoke with pride about his record as a career K.G.B. officer, pointing out that former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger had once told him that "all decent people start out in intelligence," as Mr. Kissinger did. Then Mr. Putin added, referring to President Bush's father, who served as director of central intelligence, "The 41st president was not working in a laundry, he was working at the C.I.A."
While Mr. Putin directed his most pointed remarks at the comments of Ms. Rice, he praised a statement by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell that the United States was not seeking the "destruction" of the ABM treaty. He said he had "taken due note" of Mr. Powell's assertion that Washington was seeking "effective but limited" defenses against potential ballistic missile threats from so-called rogue nations. 
In identifying with Mr. Powell's formulation, Mr. Putin appeared to be signaling a hope that the Bush administration could be persuaded to work within the ABM treaty to develop the kind of limited defense system that Russia itself proposed. 
Mr. Putin acknowledged that he and Mr. Bush had talked in detail about Iran, and Russia's growing arms relationship with its leaders. He said Russia had a "complex relationship" with Iran, but he praised President Mohammad Khatami as a "very moderate and very worthy partner" who was trying to bring Iran out of isolation.
He said Russia was committed not to supply nuclear or ballistic missile technologies to Iran, but would continue to sell defensive arms to Tehran, and he complained that the United States was guilty of "unfair competition in the arms market" by insisting that those sales should cease. He disclosed that he had provided Mr. Bush with the names of American companies that have recently been in Iran offering "large scale" cooperation, which he did not specify.
Still, the Russian leader said he took seriously the concerns of both Israel and the United States about the sale of dangerous technologies. If Russian individuals or companies continue secretly to provide Iran with illicit arms and technologies "to make money -- we will try to terminate these activities." He then proposed that Russian and American intelligence agencies step up their cooperation to counter the trafficking in dangerous technologies, "irrespective of the country of origin."
Mr. Putin called on the United States to take a more precise position on how Moscow and Washington might cooperate to fight Islamic extremism emanating from the Taliban movement in Afghanistan.
He pointed out that terrorist camps in Afghanistan, known to both United States and Russian intelligence services, had trained terrorists responsible for the deaths of both Russian and American citizens.
"We have to define a position on the Taliban," he said. "We need to know what to do about them."
Mr. Putin said he had spent some time in his discussions with Mr. Bush responding to American criticism of Russia's military campaign in the rebellious republic of Chechnya, the Kremlin's campaign against the country's only independent television network, NTV, and Moscow's pressure on neighboring Georgia.
On Chechnya, Mr. Putin, without mentioning the name of his predecessor, laid responsibility for the catastrophe there on Boris N. Yeltsin's 1995 decision to "de facto" recognize Chechnya's independence, paving the way for the Islamic extremism there and the rise of warlords who, he said, divided the republic into criminal fiefs. 
He did not address allegations that the military campaign against the Chechen rebels that precipitated his own political career in 1999 had led to widespread assaults on civilians and left hundreds of thousands homeless.
But he said he asked Mr. Bush what the American leader would have done if terrorist bands "from down south" had seized "half the state of Texas" and used it as a base of terrorism. 
Mr. Putin said it was "not a fundamental question to us whether Chechnya becomes independent or stays within Russia," but rather that Russia's goal was to ensure that it never again serve as a "launching pad for terrorist acts."
His complaint about Georgia was couched in similar terms. He asserted that when Mr. Yeltsin was in office, he won the agreement of President Eduard A. Shevardnadze to allow Russian military forces to attack Chechen rebels taking sanctuary on Georgian territory and that Mr. Shevardnadze had reneged. 
"This is the only problem we have with Georgia," Mr. Putin said, defending his decision to impose a strict visa regime on Georgian citizens as necessary to stanch the flow of Chechen rebels across the Georgian frontier. 
On the sensitive issue of freedom of the press in Russia, Mr. Putin provided no details about his own role in fostering the Kremlin-backed takeover of the country's largest independent television network. But he accused Vladimir Gusinsky, the media baron and NTV founder, of "garnering about $1 billion" of state funds in building the network, which Mr. Putin said he thought would never be paid back.
And he said it might take a number of years for the Russian economy to sustain a full spectrum of economically independent media organizations, and he added, "I am very confident that without a free media, we cannot have a normal democratic society."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vladimir V. Putin meeting yesterday with U.S. journalists. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ATOMIC WEAPONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TYLER, PATRICK E 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SLOVENIA (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2001 



499 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Workplace; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Getting Over the Fear-of-Speaking Hump 

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS 

 BODY:
Maria Vizzi knew she was in trouble. Again. Two years ago, Ms. Vizzi, then a sales representative for a Web site for insurance agents, was about to begin a speech to a group of risk managers at a conference when her body revolted. "My throat began to tighten up," said Ms. Vizzi of Manhattan. "My palms began to sweat. And my face and neck turned so red that I wished I'd worn a full-body sari."
 A million thoughts raced through her head, she recalled: "Will my New York accent be too strong? Will my mind go blank?" 
 She somehow survived the attack of nerves, but it was the final straw in a 12-year battle against stage fright. Ms. Vizzi enrolled in a Dale Carnegie Training public speaking course, and although she says she still sometimes wears a scarf to cover up her reddening neck, she is becoming much more relaxed in front of groups. She has volunteered to coach new students in the Dale Carnegie program and is considering an offer to speak to 200 people at an industry conference this summer.
Ms. Vizzi's bashfulness is no isolated case of the heebie-jeebies. Workplace specialists say the fear of public speaking is one of the most common career-stoppers in America. Forty percent of Americans are terrified at the thought of talking to an audience, according to a recent survey by the Gallup Organization. The only thing they dreaded more, they said, were snakes.
Membership at Toastmasters International, a service club where executives can hone their public speaking skills in an informal setting, has increased to 180,000 from 140,000 over the last decade. "The ability to communicate in front of a group is becoming increasingly important," said Jo Anna McWilliams, president of Toastmasters.
One reason is that in this era of electronic communication, more companies are placing a higher premium on face-to-face interaction. "When companies finally do get their people all together in one room, they expect to receive a compelling message," Ms. McWilliams said. "You can't just sit in front of a podium and be a talking head anymore. You've got to deliver something meaningful."
Those with lofty ambitions can forget about getting to the top if they cannot put on a good public performance. "Being a poor speaker is the principal reason people don't make it into the executive ranks," said Alan Greenwald, a partner at T. Bresner & Associates, a Grandview, N.Y., company that helps executives hone their communications skills. "Increasingly, C.E.O.'s and boards want their executives to be able to convey the company's message powerfully."
Ms. Vizzi can vouch for that. "As I move up in my job, it's becoming more and more important that I be more than competent in public speaking," she said.
If Kristin Gabriel is any indication, just about anybody can be helped. Early in her career, she was supposed to give an informal talk at a company sales conference in Atlanta -- but the words just would not come out. "I was completely tongue-tied," she said. "And my knees were knocking so hard under the table that they were hitting my co-worker."
Her superiors had to apologize to the group, blaming her youth and lack of experience. "It was mortifying," she said.
Since then, Ms. Gabriel, who is now co-principal of ecom Communications, a marketing communications concern in Los Angeles, has received training from two coaches and has acquired an arsenal of speaking tricks. Her favorite? "Right before I'm to go on, I go into a private room and begin pounding on a table as hard as I can," she said. "The physical exertion helps distract me from my fear."
For Jim Jennings, the key to quelling the jitters is creative visualization. "I did all the usual stuff, like pretending that everyone was in their underwear, but nothing worked," said Mr. Jennings, who was appointed in September as commissioner of the National Lacrosse League and now has to make several speeches a week. Finally, his coach suggested that he fire himself up by visualizing a sporting event.
Last month, he tried the tactic at a news conference -- and it worked. It was daunting enough to have to face 150 reporters, he says, but it was downright unnerving to know he would be followed by Jayson Williams, a former New Jersey Nets basketball player and owner of a New Jersey lacrosse franchise. "He's such a great speaker, so it was really intimidating to go before him," Mr. Jennings said. As his stomach began to do somersaults, Mr. Jennings shut his eyes and pictured the most thrilling lacrosse game he had seen last year. "I kept thinking of the excitement of the game, and that got me psyched up," he said.
A little handholding does wonders for some people. Peggy Klaus, a communications consultant in Berkeley, Calif., recently received a call from a desperate chief executive on his car phone. "He begged to see me immediately," Ms. Klaus said. He told her that on his way to a speaking engagement that morning he had prayed he would be in a car accident.
"I asked him, 'How big an accident?' " she said. "And he responded, 'Big enough that I'd have to go to the emergency room and wouldn't have to give my speech.' "
After she worked with him and videotaped him in action, Ms. Klaus says, he calmed down. "A lot of people are really afraid of looking and sounding stupid," she said. "When they realize that they don't sound like an idiot, they feel better."
That is what happened to Craig Miller, the chief executive of the MA&A Group, a technology consulting firm in Atlanta. Mr. Miller was recently videotaped as part of a public speaking course and was relieved to find out that his distress was not visible on the tape. "I thought for sure people would be able to tell that I was shaking, but you couldn't tell," he said. "It was enlightening for me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maria Vizzi is much more relaxed in front of groups after taking a Dale Carnegie class. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) Chart: "Faking It"Tips for appearing at ease. Recall the last thing that made you laugh. You will smile and seem relaxed. Take deep breaths to put more oxygen into your bloodstream. You will be less sweaty and your pulse won't pound. Focus on a friendly face in the audience. You will feel as though you are having a conversation rather than giving a speech, and will sound more natural. (Source: T. Bresner & Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (73%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; PUBLIC SPEAKING 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: LIGOS, MELINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



500 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Disease Is Big Setback For Brazil Cattle Region 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: SANTANA DO LIVRAMENTO, Brazil 

 BODY:
This is gaucho country. Gently rolling pasture stretches in all directions as far as the eye can see, empty save for herds of grazing cattle, a few traditionally garbed cowboys on horseback and the occasional tree.
 But that bucolic setting is suddenly being disrupted by foot-and-mouth disease. Just when Brazil and its neighbors in the Mercosur trade group were anticipating that an epidemic in Western Europe would lead to a big increase in their meat exports there, they, too, are confronting their own outbreak of the illness, which can be fatal to cattle and other cloven-hoofed animals. 
 "This was to be our moment," Jose Hermeto Hoffman, secretary of agriculture for the southern Brazilian state of Rio Grande do Sul, said wistfully. "Instead, we're back at square one, with our entire future jeopardized."
Brazil has the largest commercial cattle herd in the world, with more than 160 million animals. It is the third-biggest exporter of beef products, behind the United States and Australia, earning $806 million from such exports in 2000. The government had set a minimum target of $1 billion for this year, hoping to capitalize on the foot-and-mouth disease and mad cow disease in Europe, but that goal is receding from reach now that the European Union, Russia, Chile and Israel have banned imports of meat from this state or, in some cases, all of Brazil.
The government had also hoped to begin exporting fresh meat to the United States this year, having won preliminary approval last year to expand beyond canned beef there. As selling points, producers intended to emphasize that Brazilian cattle provide leaner meat and are certifiably free of mad cow disease, since animals here feed on grass, not the ground-up animal parts that are believed to have transmitted mad cow disease in Britain.
To sell chilled beef to the United States, however, a country must not only obtain certification that it is free of foot-and-mouth disease but must achieve that status without vaccinating its herds. That led Brazilian producers to abandon their traditional use of vaccines and to hope, incorrectly as it turned out, that the highly contagious disease had been eradicated throughout Brazil.
Late last month, the International Epizootic Office, an intergovernmental animal-health group based in Paris, withdrew its certification that southern Brazil was free of foot-and-mouth disease.
"Just a month ago, the market for Brazilian meat was growing and prices were rising," said David Fontoura Martins, who has 1,900 cattle and 6,000 sheep on his 7,400-acre spread outside this town. "But this virus is invisible, and while no one can be exactly sure how it has been transmitted here, we do know it is going to take a real effort to regain our certification."
Though foot-and-mouth disease does not cause serious sickness in humans, it can be a big problem not only for cattle but for hogs, sheep and goats. So Brazilian exports of pork to Europe and Asia may also end up being curtailed. Russia has even suspended imports from Brazil of chickens, which cannot contract the disease but are believed to be carriers.
The outbreak has strained relations among the four Mercosur members. Ranchers and government officials in Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay accuse Argentina of covering up an outbreak there late last year, thereby denying neighboring countries the ability to take precautions that might have prevented the spread of the disease.
Argentina, which has about 50 million cattle and last year earned more than $600 million from beef exports, denies the accusation. But by early this month, nearly 1,100 occurrences of foot-and-mouth had been reported there, pushing exports down by more than half. Another 1,200 cases were reported in Uruguay, which has 10.5 million cattle. No cases among Paraguay's nine million cattle had been reported to the international animal health group.
Once the dimensions of the problem were clear, Brazil sent soldiers to its southern border to set up sanitary checkpoints and to try to thwart the traditional practice of rustling cattle across the border. Vehicles arriving at roadblocks must now run their tires through a solution of water and iodine, and passengers are required to step on mats saturated in the same compound.
Despite those efforts, the first case in the current foot-and-mouth outbreak appeared on a ranch a few miles from here in early May. Since then, cases on nearly a score of ranches, all but one in areas near the border with Argentina or Uruguay, have been confirmed. About 1,000 animals, a relatively small number given the seriousness of the threat of disease, have been slaughtered.
"You can't even think of the kind of mass slaughter of animals that we've seen in England," Mr. Hoffman said by way of explanation for the government's restraint. "The symbolism of cattle raising is too deeply ingrained in the culture and self-image of this state for that kind of climate to exist."
Even the limited killing of animals here is being challenged and defied.
Cattlemen in nearby Alegrete have obtained an injunction that prohibits the government from slaughtering cattle there until the courts hand down a ruling, by which time the affected animals will presumably have recovered.
"Here in the pampas, we have always had to live with foot-and-mouth disease, and we know that the afflicted animals recover quickly," said Claudia Masson Campos, a lawyer and rancher who filed the court action on behalf of a neighbor who stands to lose 178 head.
Hoping to stave off the advance of the disease northward toward even larger cattle-raising areas, the government has prohibited the movement of cattle out of Rio Grande do Sul and ordered the vaccination of all 13 million head here. But ranchers complain that the medication has been slow in arriving and that initially there was not enough of it. 
"Because of administrative errors and bad policy choices, we have taken one blow after another," said Abilio Nogueira de Oliveira, head of the ranchers' association in Alegrete. "But we still have to pay our workers' salaries and benefits, and the banks are still demanding that their loans be paid back."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brazilian health workers bury cattle with foot-and-mouth disease that were destroyed by police at a ranch in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. (Reuters) Map of Brazil highlighting Santana Do Livramento: The movement of cattle out of Rio Grande do Sul has been stopped.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); VACCINES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (90%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); BEEF (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (89%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (89%); MEATS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ANIMALS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); EPIDEMICS (58%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (50%) LIVESTOCK; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MEAT; VACCINATION AND IMMUNIZATION 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%) MERCOSUR (COMMON MARKET) 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); URUGUAY (79%); PARAGUAY (79%) EUROPE; BRAZIL; PARAGUAY; URUGUAY; ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



501 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1848 words

HEADLINE: When the Sea Reaches for the Sky; 
A Favorite Of France Seduces New York

BYLINE:  By AMANDA HESSER 

 BODY:
YOU do not forget the first time you have a plateau de fruits de mer.
 Shortly after I moved to New York, David, the son of a friend of my family, was assigned to take me downtown and show me a good time. He picked me up in his beat-up convertible, and we sped down the West Side and into SoHo, swinging by Blue Ribbon to put our names on the list. 
 When we finally got in, I let David do the ordering while I peered around the room jumping with young diners. Champagne arrived, bubbling up in the glass and dancing down my throat. Then a waiter approached our table, walking cautiously under the weight of an imposing tower packed with ice and overflowing with seafood. Heads followed it in a trance, like a tennis ball across a court. He set it down in the center of our table. 
I knew what it was -- a plateau de fruits de mer -- but had never seen one up close. It had eluded me the two years I lived in France. But here it was in all its glory. Towering, resplendent, unrestrained. There were oysters rimmed with their liquor, their shells nestled in the ice. Clams, scallops the size of dice still attached to their ridged shells, crabs poised as if on sand, shrimp with their heads on and a plump lobster, split in half. We were given the tools for our task and three tiny ramekins of sauce. 
David had done his job: I was suddenly, utterly infatuated with New York.
What I didn't know at the time -- among other things, like where Union Square was and whether Daniel was a restaurant or a hair salon -- was that Blue Ribbon's plateau was one of the first to show up in New York. Balthazar followed suit when it opened in 1997. But recently, its seems that restaurants in every corner of the city, from Artisanal and Guastavino's to Next Door Nobu and City Hall, are serving plateaux de fruits de mer. 
The stacked platters stand like evergreens among dense forests of diners. Some are lavished with sea urchins and tins of caviar. Others are rimmed with poppy red crayfish. You can indulge in bay scallop ceviche and carefully pry a whelk from its snail-shaped shell. The one at Next Door Nobu is like a flower arrangement formed from clams, octopus and tuna. City Hall's has a steakhouse air with a big, meaty lobster claw and an abundance of oysters.
There is no precise definition for a plateau de fruit de mer. You won't find it in Larousse Gastronomique or the Oxford Companion to Food. There is no recipe. It is more abstract than that. Think of it as an expression of the sea, a display of the best shellfish and crustaceans a restaurant can find that day, put forth in their purest form. Oysters are simply shucked, sea urchins sliced open, langoustines cooked in salt water. All are arranged on deep aluminum trays that are filled with ice. 
A great plateau de fruits de mer gives a sense of excess, with the seafood coming off as if they were jewels nestled in the ice. Like a wedding cake, the bottom layer is largest. It is typically dotted with oysters, clams and scallops, perhaps a few lemon wedges plunged into the ice. This is so the diner can see that they are fresh and plump, and immersed in their liquor. (If they were placed on a higher layer, you would risk spilling the precious liquor as you lifted each shell.) 
The second layer, and sometimes the third, each smaller and supported by steel pedestals, are decorated with richer shellfish, like shrimp, mussels and razor clams. Sometimes, periwinkles and seaweed are slipped among them, as if they had washed up on the ice. If there is lobster, it is usually placed on top, crowning the plateau with a flash of red to catch diners eyes as it passes from raw bar to table. 
A plateau de fruits de mer is not so much a dish as an experience. And none is better in New York than that served at Balthazar. 
I went with a group of friends recently and ordered the Balthazar, the large, three-tiered, $99 fruits de mer extravaganza. Shortly after the order tumbled from my lips, waiters descended on our table, placing three bowls, one long and slim fork, one small clam fork and a crab cracker before each of us. Minutes later, a phalanx of waiters arrived, one to set down the pedestal, another to place dishes of sauces -- cocktail, mignonette and tarragon mayonnaise -- in the center and a third to crown the pedestal with the plateaux. 
For a minute or two, conversation ceased and a feeding frenzy ensued. "I don't know where to begin," one friend said. "It's too tall for us!" It was true: the top layer was higher than I could reach. The table next to us looked on shamelessly. 
As we began plucking away at the oysters and a fresh, peppery scallop ceviche on the bottom, the waiters kept close by like birds on a wire, ready to swoop in -- to replace our shell-strewn bowls, rearrange the layers and remove them once they were emptied. As we ate through the whelks, the shrimp and calamari salad in a radicchio cup, and mussels with barnacles still on their shells, the tower lowered until we were faced with the shrimp and lobster, poised regally on the top tier. It was an artful dance between us cracking crab claws, greedily dipping lumps of lobster in the tarragon mayonnaise and sucking the meat from lobster legs, and the waiters pampering us. And when we were finished, our shirts stained with clam juice and hands sticky, they replaced our tablecloths and handed us warm moist towels and a wedge of lemon.
At Next Door Nobu, the plateau is listed on the menu as simply "raw bar," and is best enjoyed by sitting at the sushi bar, where you can watch it be assembled. An opaque green glass bowl is mounded with ice -- the canvas stretched on the frame. Shiso leaves are held on the ice with thick red cubes of tuna. Large Hunter Point oysters from Washington State are propped near the edge; Kumomoto oysters are wedged in the sides like outcroppings on a hillside. 
Coral-colored top neck clams are laid next to a nest of shredded daikon; giant clams are scored to look like daisies; and slices of octopus are arranged like fans. The sushi chef places a few raspberry-flavored yamamomo berries between the fish and, on top, a glass cradling abalone, sea urchin and caviar. It is like a garden of seafood blooming before your eyes. It arrives with three dipping pools: a Maui onion salsa, a citrusy and spicy ponzu sauce and a tart lemon wasabi sauce. Platters start at $40.
When I returned with a friend to Blue Ribbon, the plateau was as splendid as I had remembered. This time we sat at the bar, and, as at Next Door Nobu, watching it being constructed was as pleasurable as eating it. Perhaps even more so at Blue Ribbon, where the same person has been making them since the restaurant opened nine years ago. You can't miss him: he's the man wearing a headband with "Alonso" printed in big block letters and an "oyster tips" jar loaded with cash nearby. 
From the bar, you can watch him pack the trays with ice, swishing his hand through the center, creating a gulley for the lobster to lay in, shucking the oysters and inspecting them critically, swiftly, and in a single motion, prying open littleneck clams and flipping them over so that their fat side buckles above the shell.
There is nothing fancy about the basic plateau at Blue Ribbon, which is $62. There are littleneck clams, Taylor Bay scallops, lobster, shrimp with their heads on, Maryland crab and one variety of oyster, Malpeque when we were there. The Blue Ribbon Royale, its deluxe version for about $30 more, has a third layer with glasses of Stolichnaya vodka punched into the ice and a tin of American caviar balanced atop a miniature bowl of ice. A few lemon wedges and sprigs of parsley are the only adornment.
But the oysters are clean-tasting and briny, the crab meat is sweet-tasting in the legs and moist and spicy in the body, and the lobster is left with its mustardy roe. "Here are your machines," Alonso says as he hands you your cracker, prong, spoon and tiny fork for digging, cracking and plucking. There is homemade mayonnaise sprinkled with a mixture of cayenne, paprika and dried herbs; cocktail sauce; mignonette; and "Alonso sauce," which is red onion, tomato and celery, chopped into tiny flecks and seasoned with hot sauce, lemon juice and butcher-grind black pepper.
Alonso checks in with you, clearing your empty shells, making sure you taste his sauce. Meanwhile, the plateau's infectiousness takes effect. People filtering in past the bar peer over your shoulder, and the orders roll in, keeping Alonso busy through the night. They sell about a dozen of the Blue Ribbon Royales on a weekend night.
Eric and Bruce Bromberg, the owners of Blue Ribbon, modeled their platters after those they dined on in Paris, at all-night brasseries like Au Pied du Cochon.
"Their doors haven't been closed since Hitler left Paris," Mr. Bromberg said. "Our restaurant doesn't look anything like it, but it embodies the same thing."
When they started serving oysters and shrimp and plateau de fruits de mer, Bruce Bromberg said, "we were told New Yorkers were not going to go for it." 
But who would guess that New Yorkers would be buying up $10 bottles of sparkling water with nary a flinch, either?
When brasseries became popular in New York a few years ago, the plateau de fruits de mer was part of the package, as important as hard-boiled eggs on the bar and pastis behind it. The plateau de fruits de mer has long been part of the coastal cuisine of Brittany, served essentially straight off the fishing boats. But the dish really gained popularity as brasseries began opening in Paris at the turn of the 20th century. Brasseries were beer halls, open late into the night, serving simple fare like steak and potatoes. Shucked oysters, crevettes grises and boiled langoustines fit into this idiom. 
The idea of presenting seafood so elaborately, though, comes from a much earlier period. Stacking food, wrote Carolin Young, a dining historian, in an e-mail message from Paris, whether it be seafood, fruits or vegetables, began in the 17th century. Then it would have been served at banquets in the homes of aristocrats.
But in a strange way, a plateau de fruits de mer seems better suited to showy New York dining than to France. French restaurateurs are stingy and economical. At a bistro, you will get an excellent piece of duck. Just one piece. Here, the ante is continually raised. Portions abound, and so do extras like caviar and truffles. 
At Artisanal, the grand plateau de fruits de mer for $98 is absolutely baroque. There is sea urchin custard, Belon, Cape Neddick and Island Creek oysters, Australian crawfish called yabbies, ceviche, periwinkles, whelks, shrimp, crab, lobster and razor clams. It drew wails of shock from my fellow diners.
The plateau seems like something that shows up in a good economy powered with ambitious diners, and disappears in a slump. I hope that's not the case. If things are going to slide, I would like to go down slurping my choice of oysters and clams, squeezing over lemon juice, dipping them in mignonette, sipping on my wine. It's what warmed me to New York, and I'd like to hold on to it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: JEWELS ON ICE -- The raw seafood platter at Next Door Nobu, above, resembles a flower arrangement. At Blue Ribbon in SoHo, top left, Chris Polak adds a glass of vodka to the deluxe plateau. Henry Meer's platter at City Hall, top right, is lavish with lobster and crab claws. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. F6); NEPTUNE'S PEDESTAL -- An extravagant showpiece, the three-tiered seafood plateau at Balthazar in SoHo is heavy with crab claws, mussels, shrimp, lobster, calamari salad and oysters. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (87%); CRUSTACEANS (87%) COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; SEAFOOD; SHELLFISH; RESTAURANTS 

ORGANIZATION: BALTHAZAR (NYC); NEXT DOOR NOBU (MANHATTAN RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: HESSER, AMANDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



502 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel; 
Despite the currentslowdown, there is some optimism that corporate spending will pick up.

BYLINE:  By Joe Sharkey; The Business Travel column appears each Wednesday. E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
STOCK analysts, usually a pretty astute group but never a bunch you'd want to actually trust with the rent money, are in full lamentation mode these days about the hotel and airlines businesses. 
 As was noted here last week, corporate declines in spending on business travel that started hitting in January unexpectedly accelerated with the coming of spring. As a result, the stock market has become quite cross with airline and hotel companies. 
 You can read about that elsewhere. Instead, we highlight here a faint expression of optimism for the business-travel market that drives much of the profitability for hotel companies, some of which are having their worst times in 10 years. 
It comes from Bjorn Hanson, the hotel consultant for PricewaterhouseCoopers, who said: "Business is very good at being able to create an immediate effect" by slamming on the spending brakes.
"But business is typically not good in maintaining this kind of an effect," he continued. 
His point, echoed by others who follow business travel and its impact on the economy, is that corporations need to send people out on the road, and in rather impressive numbers, too, as business connections spread globally. Travel -- typically a company's second-largest controllable expense after salaries -- has always been the first place to cut when a company slows down. But Mr. Hanson said such cuts had become increasingly short-lived. 
"Travel is a necessary cost of running the business," he said. "It is possible to postpone or curtail it for a little while. But typically, sometime during the second quarter following this kind of reaction, business travel starts to come back, both for individuals and groups. Clients need to be met; new projects need to get started; training needs to be done." 
Mr. Hanson added, "We do think that as we get past Labor Day there will be a return" of much, if not most, of the business travel that has been curtailed in recent months.
A resumption of robust business travel, he said, is also likely to bring "some reversal of the trade-down effect." This is the phenomenon, currently very prevalent, of corporate travel departments insisting that those who do travel buy cheaper -- and sometimes less convenient -- air fares and stay at a lower category of hotel than the ones they may be used to. His company has predicted a rebound in the hotel industry next year.
In early June, the American Express Business Travel Monitor said that lodging costs for business travelers in both domestic and foreign hotels actually grew sharply during the first quarter as hotel companies looked to "squeeze extra value" out of declining travel dollars.
But in the last month, many national hotel chains have been advertising promotional rates to stimulate summer leisure and business travel demand and to try to maintain brand loyalty as companies channel business to lower-priced hotel companies that are aggressively going after corporate travel business.
"What's happening now is, as soon as they see declines in occupancy, as soon as they hear 'less travel,' many hotel managers are now discounting," said Robert Mandelbaum, the director of research for PKF Consulting. 
A hotel industry executive who insisted on remaining anonymous pointed out, however, that there is some risk to this, especially at top hotels, many of which still resist cutting rates to stimulate occupancy in lean times. That is because they fear that when the economy booms again, their top-paying customers might expect to be able to negotiate the cheaper rates.
As travel tightens, many companies are now able strictly to enforce formal travel policies that used to be easily circumvented by favored employees who insisted in staying at higher-priced hotels than the policies officially allowed.
When times were flush, some companies had been "fighting the war for talent, and not worried as much about their travel dollars," said Julie Hylton, the director of American Express Consulting, which helps companies manage travel planning and identify less-expensive options for hotels, airlines and other services. "Now they're having to walk that fine line between what they need to do to keep the company profitable and still keep these employees," she said.
The general tightening of corporate travel policies that is channeling more travelers into lower-priced chains is the major effect the current slowdown has had on business travel, said Thom Nulty, the president of Navigant International, the travel management company. 
Previously, he said, corporate travel managers "were afraid to not let somebody do what they wanted to do and stay where they wanted to stay because they might go to work for somebody else -- but I think now the travel policies that were in place in the past are actually being enforced a lot more."
Until the current economic downturn, he said, "corporate profits were so good" that many valued employees "could always trade up to a Four Seasons or a Ritz-Carlton hotel," even if corporate policies mandated slightly lower-priced hotels in the Hilton and Hyatt range.
Actually, some of the world's most expensive hotels say they're doing just fine, despite the current problems. Next week's column looks at how some business travelers are still putting on the Ritz. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); LODGING (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); AIR FARES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); US LABOR DAY (62%); BRANDING (60%); BRAND EQUITY (60%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS BUSINESS TRAVEL (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%)

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



503 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Natal Journal; 
A Has-Been Wonders How to Honor What Was

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: NATAL, Brazil 

 BODY:
Watching fishermen repairing boats on the banks of the river here, it is hard to imagine that Life magazine could ever have called this place "the wartime crossroads of the world." Or that the United States War Department in 1942 designated Natal "one of the four most strategic points in the world," along with Suez, Gibraltar and the Bosporus.
 Most people here know nothing about that chapter in their city's past, and a few may even want to keep things that way. But Leonardo Barata, a sociologist and amateur historian who has collected thousands of documents and photographs about Natal's indispensable role in World War II, has a plan to remedy that situation: he wants the site of a former American military base here made into a historical and cultural museum and park. 
 "As a people, we Brazilians have no memory," he said. "But the war years need to be remembered, because they marked a turning point in the history of Natal, thrusting us into the modern age and allowing us for a brief moment to be the center of the world's attention."
Natal's importance during World War II stemmed from its location and the fact that planes of that era had limited range. This is the closest point in the Western Hemisphere to Africa, and thousands of American soldiers and tons of equipment made the 1,844-mile journey over to Freetown, Sierra Leone, and then on to Europe or Asia after flying from Miami in transport planes.
"Natal offered all-seasons flying, which was of great strategic value, since the only other route was through Canada and Greenland, and during the winter months you couldn't fly there," explained Clyde Smith Jr., a professor of history at the federal university here. "This was at one time the most active military base in the world, with planes taking off or landing every three minutes."
The American presence here during the war, when the city's population was less than a tenth of its current 650,000, was so strong that when the author Lenine Pinto wrote a book about the era, he entitled it "Natal U.S.A." In addition to some 5,000 American troops who were stationed here permanently, Jack Benny, Bette Davis, Tommy Dorsey, Duke Ellington, Tyrone Power and other celebrities also stopped to perform or rest on their way to or from Africa.
"You could walk into a store downtown and find Madame Chiang Kai-shek buying jewelry, or go into a bar and run into Humphrey Bogart," recalled Alvamar Furtado de Mendonca, 86, a member of the state Cultural Council. "This was truly an amazing place during those years."
Today, though, powerful economic interests and the local government are campaigning for the Brazilian military to turn over the site of one former American base for commercial development. Where Franklin D. Roosevelt came ashore in 1943 to meet with his Brazilian counterpart, Getulio Vargas, they envision a riverside complex that would include docks for cruise ships, an aquarium and what was initially described as a shopping center.
"Well, that was a poor choice of words to describe this effort, so we are not calling it that anymore," said Carlos Ivan da Camara Ferreira de Melo, the president of Codern, a state-owned company that manages the port and has been pushing the idea. "What we want in addition to an expansion of the port area is space for stores, cafes, a cinema and similar businesses where visitors will spend money."
Although Mr. Ferreira de Melo thinks that a World War II museum would be an attraction for foreigners he envisions stepping off cruise ships, he believes that Mr. Barata's project should not be given exclusivity at the site. "The two ideas are not antagonistic," he said. "There is room for everyone here, a museum too. A lot of money can be made from this."
Mr. Barata, however, argues that the entire 25-acre site should be preserved to properly honor wartime history. He complains that the Brazilian Air Force, traditionally regarded as the most nationalistic and authoritarian branch of the military, favors the mall proposal because it prefers that local people not recall that Americans -- rather than Brazilians -- built the bases and supplied the planes here.
Gen. Gromori Vasconcelos de Andrade, commander of the Brazilian Air Force detachment here, declined a request for an interview about the future of the base. As recently as last year, though, the departing minister of the air force questioned the justness of the Allied cause by expressing sympathy and a certain admiration for Hitler.
"Hitler was a leader" who "had a vision or a personality that was a little distorted," and while "I don't defend Hitler, I can't attack him" either, Gen. Walter Brauer said in an interview with the news magazine Veja. "If he was able to mobilize a nation like Germany, he must have had his merit and valor, of course. He was a charismatic man, but he overreached himself."
But elements of the Brazilian military aren't the only ones who might be offended by documents or exhibits the museum would display. American intelligence reports of the time described the most prominent local intellectual as "pro-German in sentiment," and one base commander ordered quartermasters not to do business with a leading commercial family, one that is still influential here, because he said they were cheating on invoices.
Over all, though, "the relationship between the G.I.'s and the townspeople was excellent, really superior," Marshall V. Jamison, 85, the first American commander of the base, recalled in a telephone interview from his home outside Washington "It was a marvelous experience, and I fell in love with Brazil and Brazilians," so much so that he still keeps an apartment in Natal.
In his efforts to prevent a shopping mall from replacing the base, Mr. Barata has found an ally in the commander of the Brazilian Army unit that is stationed on that part of the former American base that is not under the control of the air force. 
The Brazilian Army fought alongside American troops in Italy during World War II, and Col. Erland Correia Mota has tried to preserve nearly a score of buildings the Americans constructed here. 
"Commercial development is an idea of the local government that has nothing to do with the army, and I am authorized to state that as long as I am commander here, nobody is coming in here," he said. "As soldiers, we believe the past offers us a mirror on the future, and this is a place that has great historical significance, both to us and to the United States."
There is just one problem, Mr. Barata acknowledged. Colonel Mota's tour of duty here "ends next year, and after that, anything can happen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: On a trip to Natal in 1943, left, President Roosevelt joked with President Vargas of Brazil. Above, a site known as the Ramp, where American seaplanes landed before and during World War II. The site is the center of a dispute over how to remember the glory days of this "crossroads." (Larry Rohter/The New York Times); (U.S. Army Air Corps) Map of Brazil highlighting Natal: In the 40's you might spot Bette Davis or Duke Ellington in Natal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HISTORY (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY BASES (88%); WRITERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); RIVERS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); AIRLINES (70%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); CELEBRITIES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) WORLD WAR II (1939-45); GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; HISTORY; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MUSEUMS 

PERSON: BARATA, LEONARDO; ROHER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE (54%) UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (95%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%) NATAL (BRAZIL); BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



504 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Creative Destruction and the Web 

BYLINE:  By Daniel Gross; Daniel Gross, a fellow at the New America Foundation, is co-author of "Generations of Corning: The Life and Times of a Global Corporation."

 BODY:
Companies that supply, build and operate fiber optic networks are burning. Level 3 Communications, groaning under an $8 billion debt load, is cutting 25 percent of its staff. Last week 360networks ominously delayed an interest payment. Nortel Networks of Canada could lose $19.2 billion -- yes, billion -- in the current quarter.
 Anticipating rapid growth in demand for high-speed connections to the Internet, these companies aggressively rushed to build global fiber optic networks. It is tempting to view the travails of these companies, coming on the heels of last year's dot-com bust, as further evidence that Internet-related businesses are a spent force. We shouldn't. 
 After all, in virtually every generation, new technologies have arisen that promised to transform the way Americans conducted business, exchanged information and entertained themselves. Each inspired an exuberant investment boom, which led to a glut of capacity, ruinous competition, falling prices for consumers and, ultimately, bankruptcies and consolidation. Most competitors contributed to a technological transformation while failing as short-term investments.
Today's boom and bust is merely the latest in a series that have characterized America's phenomenal economic and technological development. The difference? In today's 24-7 environment, the rags-to-riches-to-rags cycle is shorter than ever before. And with the democratized markets, the damage caused by failing investments may be more widespread.
Companies like Level 3 Communications and 360networks were formed in the late 1990's. Kicked into permanent overdrive by the stimulant of abundant capital, they manically laid conduits, dug trenches and then buried fiber optic cable under the seas and the prairies: some 39 million miles at a cost of $90 billion. But with only 5 percent of the new fiber being used, prices for network access have plummeted faster than rents for San Francisco lofts. Inventories of routers and fiber optic cable are piling up at suppliers like Cisco and Nortel. And one-time fiber barons are quickly becoming conversant with the arcana of the bankruptcy code.
A similar set of circumstances affected the pioneers of the original information superhighway, the telegraph. Soon after Samuel F. B. Morse invented it, hundreds of local service providers popped up like wildflowers. Their network-building efforts in the 1840's and 1850's were financed by the antebellum version of venture capital: government subsidies and hundreds of millions of dollars raised by stock sales.
But strikes, competition and the Civil War disrupted business. By 1866, Western Union, with its solid balance sheet, control of patents and 44,000 miles of telegraph wire, became a consolidator par excellence. It absorbed its two remaining principal rivals, and went on to control 90 percent of the telegraph business. The only value in the stock certificates of upstart companies like the Washington and New Orleans Telegraph Company proved to be historical.
Between 1860 and 1890, investors poured nearly $9 billion into the next new thing: railroads. In those years, the nation's rail network grew from 30,626 miles to nearly 200,000 miles -- a 653 percent increase. The hyper-construction led to competition and excess capacity, which was good for freight shippers and passengers. But when the financial panic of 1893 hit, it spelled disaster for investors. In 1895, 169 railroads, owners of nearly 20 percent of the nation's tracks, were operated by bankruptcy receivers. Those that became insolvent at that time included the storied Baltimore & Ohio, the Union Pacific and the Santa Fe. J. P. Morgan cleaned up the mess and cleaned up in the process.
By 1908, the year Henry Ford started his company, some 515 car manufacturers had entered the decade-old auto industry -- and half of them had already failed. Now-forgotten pioneers like the Hudson Motor Company and the Duryea Manufacturing Company were among the market leaders. Twenty years later, when the Ford Model T sold for a mere $290, the Big Three -- General Motors, Chrysler and Ford -- controlled 80 percent of the market. 
Similar evolutions occurred with revolutionary technologies like telephony, radio and the personal computer: remember the Commodore and the TRS-80? 
But just as the failure of 99 percent of the automakers in the early decades of the 1900's didn't signal an end to the car's influence on society, the demise of the fiber optic entrepreneurs doesn't mean the Internet is done transforming the way we live. Internet usage is still growing, albeit at a slower pace than originally predicted. New products and services that use this immensely powerful scaffolding are introduced each month. 
Unfortunately, the aggressive first movers may not be around to reap the ultimate profits. It's a safe bet many of today's fiber optic companies won't be around in five years. Very few of them will exist as independent entities in 2010. The vast majority will end up as crossword puzzle clues, like Ransom E. Olds, or as parts of a larger merged entity, some Global-Level-360networks. 
Creative destruction, the term coined by economist Joseph Schumpeter to describe the workings of innovation and technology, justly became a buzzword of the New Economy. Many new companies have been created; almost as many will be destroyed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PATENTS (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (59%) FIBER OPTICS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (72%); LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); WESTERN UNION CO (51%)

TICKER: LVLT (NYSE) (58%); WU (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (51%)

PERSON: GROSS, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



505 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Home Building Declined in May 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19 

 BODY:
The pace of home building in the United States slackened in May, the Commerce Department reported today, but economists expressed optimism that the housing industries would remain strong and buffer the economy from recession.
 David Orr, chief economist at First Union in Charlotte, N.C., said that "housing, while not really growing, is clearly providing a shield against full-fledged recession -- rather like a levy protecting against the rising flood of manufacturing layoffs and stock market declines." 
 The Commerce Department said that groundbreaking for homes fell 0.4 percent in May, to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 1.622 million units. The decline came after a revised 2.3 percent increase in April. 
Despite the slide, the figures exceeded the expectations of economists, who had forecast an annual pace of 1.595 million housing starts.
Permits for new housing, a gauge of builders' view of the economy in months ahead, rose 2.1 percent in May, to a seasonally adjusted pace of 1.621 million after a 2.5 percent decline in April.
The statistics on permits indicated optimism among home builders, said David Seiders, chief economist for the National Association of Home Builders. "They are facing good demand," he said, "and their view of the future is still positive."
Figures on housing starts varied from region to region, with the Northeast registering its sharpest drop in 10 years and the Midwest experiencing a marked increase.
But economists said that the decline in the Northeast was not unduly worrisome because regional information can be erratic and because there was a sharp climb in the region in April.
Amid the economic downturn of the last several months, housing has buoyed the economy. Low mortgage rates have prompted continued strong home sales and a boom in refinancing. Mr. Seiders of the home builders' association said 30-year fixed-rate mortgages were expected to average 7.2 percent in the last two quarters of the year. Another factor supporting the strength of the housing market, he said, has been the rise in selling prices.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A construction worker cutting plywood for the roof supports of a home being built in Plantation, Fla. Economists remain optimistic on housing. (Bloomberg News) Chart: "Housing Construction"New private housing started and permits authorized in May, in millions, at seasonally adjusted annual rates. May DataStarts: 1.622Permits: 1.621 Chart tracks permits and starts from December 1999 to May 2001.(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); LAYOFFS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%) HOUSING 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



506 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Woman With a New View of Culture 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 15 

 BODY:
At the end of June, the United Nations will hold an unprecedented special session on how to combat AIDS, and a Muslim woman from conservative Saudi Arabia will be in the thick of the debate. 
 She is Thoraya Obaid, who since late last year has led the United Nations Population Fund, an agency that has been propelled into the heart of this issue. She was Secretary General Kofi Annan's attention-getting choice to lead this organization, whose function has been revolutionized by force of circumstance. Once a dispenser of family planning supplies, it has become a leading campaigner for safer sex. 
 For the General Assembly to call a special session about an illness is both out of character and out of season. 
It shows the high level of concern about AIDS, and the debate will not be for the squeamish. To be effective, AIDS experts say, the member nations will have to confront some undiplomatic realities like the trafficking of women, the rights of prostitutes, drug addicts' dirty needles and the considerable -- but in many places hidden -- population of men who have sex with men. 
Ms. Obaid comes from an Arab country where women's rights are still severely limited and homosexuality is not widely discussed. In preparatory meetings for the session on AIDS, Arab nations have resisted explicit wording on gay sex as well as on women's rights and adolescent sexuality. But then, so have representatives of the Vatican and some members of the Bush administration, to the consternation of American anti-AIDS campaigners.
That confrontation, Ms. Obaid said in an interview, should serve as warning about the need for participants to be sensitive to cultural differences. From her vantage point, she added, the battle over semantics still often masks a more basic global split. The frank and explicit language about sex that is often demanded by Westerners when United Nations documents are written makes compromise -- and progress on vital issues -- difficult, she said. 
"The North needs to change the way it addresses the South," she said. "Because if you attend the debates, it always appears as if the South is wrong and they have to change -- that they have nothing good in their culture or their society and we are teaching them what needs to be done." 
Ms. Obaid has lived her life across this cultural divide. Born in Baghdad in 1945, she grew up in Saudi Arabia at a time when there were no secular schools for girls. At age 3 she was sent to a religious school. But she had parents who wanted more for her and their seven other children. 
Her father, Ahmed Obaid, a journalist and Arab classicist who was something of a dissident, and her mother, Aisha Khatib, sent her at age 6 to the American College for Girls in Cairo, a private school where she remained through 12th grade. 
"It was quite a sacrifice for my father," she said. "I think he sacrificed for my education throughout his life. He was a devout Muslim, and my mother is a devout Muslim. They felt that it was an Islamic obligation to educate us." Her father, not a rich man, told his children their education would be their legacy, she said.
Ms. Obaid went on to Mills College in Oakland, Calif., and then to Wayne State University in Detroit, where she earned a master of arts degree and a Ph.D. in literature and social anthropology. She began her career with the United Nations in 1975, at the Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia. She is married to Mahmoud Saleh, an Egyptian expert in alternative energy sources. Two grown daughters from an earlier marriage, a doctor and an architect, live in Britain.
Saudi Arabia has changed dramatically over her lifetime, she said. She was the Saudi candidate for her job, and the job is contributing to the process of change. 
"My appointment has certainly made me very visible in the country," she said. "I was in Saudi Arabia about three weeks ago. I met the king. I met the crown prince, the prime minister, the deputy minister of foreign affairs, the minister of planning, the minister of health. I was on Saudi Arabian television for an hour. That never happened before."
Throughout the Arab counties and much of the Islamic world, she said, family planning activities have been very successful.
"We really do not have problems with family planning in Arab countries or in the Muslim world," she said. She said the questions that arise are over services for adolescents because the culture believes that sex should be reserved for marriage. 
Looking for the cultural opening, Ms. Obaid said, she reminds Muslim leaders that many girls are indeed married very young. She said that when policies are written, she advises a vague linguistic compromise that allows for family planning services to adolescents "as appropriate." 
Ms. Obaid said that in dealing with Islamic societies, she is working with the center for population research at Al Azhar University in Egypt to create materials that address reproductive health from a Muslim perspective.
Islamic nations are also looking for appropriate responses to AIDS. In a new survey of national attitudes, the United Nations population division found that while infection rates are very low in the Middle East and North Africa, leading Arab countries reported that they have a major level of concern about the spread of the illness. 
Ways will have to be found to broach the subject of AIDS "within the cultural context." She said. "If you offend the cultural environment, you really lose rather than win."
Ms. Obaid remains committed, however, to some strong positions on the right of women to control their sexual lives that the Population Fund adopted under her predecessor, Dr. Nafis Sadik of Pakistan, also a Muslim. 
"We should be empowering women to say no to sex, or at least insist on safe sex," Ms. Obaid said. She will also continue to campaign against female genital mutilation, while urging communities to come up with more symbolic rites of passage for girls at puberty. 
Turning to Afghanistan, where the rights of women are at their lowest ebb anywhere, Ms. Obaid noted that the ruling Taliban movement is based in the Pashtun ethnic group, which she said is culturally conservative. 
The Taliban "are supposed to be the puritanical ones," she said. "But in Saudi Arabia, the Wahabis really are the puritans, yet one of the greatest advances there has been in girls' education. It's one of our main success stories."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thoraya Obaid, head of the United Nations Population Fund. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (95%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); WOMEN (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); CHILDREN (63%); WRITERS (62%); FAMILY PLANNING (56%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND (91%) UNITED NATIONS; UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND 

PERSON: OBAID, THORAYA AHMED; CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (55%) SAUDI ARABIA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (79%); EGYPT (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



507 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1732 words

HEADLINE: Why Juan Won't Save; 
Financial Services Industry Fails to Reach Many Hispanics

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
Guadalupe Avita has been living in the United States for 10 years, but only recently opened a bank account.
 An immigrant from Sinaloa, Mexico, Ms. Avita used to keep thousands of dollars in her home in the Los Angeles area. Without proper documentation for identification -- like a Social Security number -- she assumed it would be impossible to open a bank account. After her sister was robbed, Ms. Avita, a single mother, was fearful that she, too, would lose her savings. "I always worried," she said. 
 Then, three months ago, a local advocate for Hispanics told her she could apply for a taxpayer identification number, which some banks will accept instead of a Social Security number as a form of identification. The Internal Revenue Service does not share data about those who apply for a taxpayer ID with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, a spokesman for the agency said. Using the ID, Ms. Avita was able to open a bank account at a local branch of Washington Mutual. 
Increasingly, banks and credit card companies are seeking ways to reach recent immigrants like Ms. Avita, as well as more established middle-class Hispanics, who tend to be less likely to invest than the average American, according to government statistics and other studies.
But many financial institutions' efforts at selling themselves to Hispanics are limited to translating brochures into Spanish, sponsoring the occasional Cinco de Mayo celebration and other half-hearted efforts that have yet to capture the attention of Hispanics.
Few institutions realize that a more subtle approach is required, advocates and marketing experts say. Hispanics are, after all, a diverse group: a pitch that appeals to Mexicans, the largest subgroup, could fall flat with Cuban immigrants. And, advertising and banking executives said, many Hispanics arrive in the United States with a bias against banks, thanks to corruption or instability among financial institutions in their homelands.
It is easy to see why banks are interested in Hispanics. They are the fastest-growing ethnic group in the United States in terms of sheer numbers. The Hispanic population grew 58 percent from 1990 to 2000, while the overall population increased 13 percent, according to the Census Bureau.
Yet relatively few banks or credit card companies have won over Hispanic consumers, advertising and marketing executives say. Fewer than half of all Hispanics have credit cards, according to recent data from MasterCard International, compared with 80 percent for the population over all. A 1997 report by the comptroller of the currency noted that 58 percent of Hispanic households had deposit accounts with banks or brokers, compared with 71 percent of black households and 93 percent of white households.
To a growing number of banks, that gap means opportunity for gain. Wells Fargo demonstrated its commitment to Hispanic customers last month, when it agreed to accept an identity card issued by the Mexican consulate in Austin, Tex., as a valid form of identification. Since the program began on May 2, more than 250 accounts have been opened, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman said.
Citigroup followed up less than two weeks later when it agreed to buy Grupo Financiero Banamex-Accival, Mexico's second-biggest bank, for $12.5 billion. It hopes to knit together a powerful financial institution on both sides of the border.
"The Banamex deal is huge," said Adriana De La Mora, a Chicago stockbroker affiliated with Salomon Smith Barney, a division of Citigroup. "I can't even comprehend how this will all roll out in the months ahead."
Even with Banamex, however, Citigroup faces a challenge. Ms. De La Mora, a 32-year-old native of Guadalajara, Mexico, said she has had a hard time attracting Hispanic brokerage clients, despite her close ties to Mexicans in Chicago.
"When I started in the brokerage business four years ago, I thought it would be easy to get these accounts," she said. Instead, Hispanics amount to fewer than 10 percent of her customers.
One reason for that disappointing performance is that Hispanics were largely left out of last decade's economic boom even as they became more visible. Partly because newer, poorer immigrants dragged down the whole group, the average Hispanic household's net worth actually fell 24 percent from 1995 to 1998 -- the most recent figures available -- according to an analysis of Federal Reserve data by the National Council of La Raza, an advocacy group.
To attract more Hispanic savers, banks need to hire professionals in communities where Hispanics tend to live, marketing experts say. "At a time when banks are trying to move away from the branch, Hispanic customers still require a softer touch," said Simon El Hage, director of strategic marketing at Lopez Negrete, a communications firm in Houston that has developed campaigns for Bank of America.
Hispanics generally prefer direct contact, said Mr. El Hage, and new immigrants particularly need a person to explain savings and investment choices to them. "The branch employee is part ambassador, part social worker," he said.
To try to meet that preference for the personal service available through branch banking, one bank that caters to Hispanics, Banco Popular, has expanded to 96 branches from just 10 branches in 1989. Banco Popular, which is based in Puerto Rico, operates in six states with large Hispanic populations -- California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and Texas.
"Many Latinos say they do everything on the Internet. But in greater proportions to the population over all, they like to go to the branch," said Jorge A. Junquera, president of the bank's North American operations.
Even established middle-class Hispanics are often wary of banks. Those whose families have moved to the United States relatively recently have memories of a precarious banking industry in their home countries.
In Mexico, for example, banks were nationalized by the government in 1982, and then privatized as part of a $100 billion bailout just over a decade later. That spawned widespread uncertainty. "Anything connected with the government was not to be trusted," said Silvia Malo, an account director with Reynardus & Moya, an ad agency that specializes in pitching to Hispanics.
Ms. Malo, who arrived in the United States three and a half years ago from Mexico City, has been working on a campaign for the LaSalle Bank of Chicago, a subsidiary of ABM Amro of the Netherlands. "More important than translating deposit forms into Spanish is developing a sense of trust," she said.
The biggest challenge for banks, Hispanic advocates say, is to attract the huge number of illegal immigrants who do not have bank accounts.
"Money is money, whether it comes from an immigrant or not," said Felipe Kofman, a Los Angeles advocate who has helped hundreds of immigrants, including Ms. Avita, open bank accounts.
Immigration officials estimates that there are five million illegal immigrants in this country, but the number may be far higher, according to Luis Plascencia, associate director of the Texas office of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute, a nonprofit policy and research organization.
Illegal immigrants are often singled out by criminals, who know they are likely to have cash on hand because they do not use banks and are unlikely to go to the police for fear of being deported. In Austin last year, for example, nearly half of all reported robbery victims were Hispanic, the police said, far above their share of the population.
Credit card companies have their own hurdles in marketing to Hispanic consumers: many lack credit histories.
Those who do have such histories are ideal candidates because they typically are quicker to pay their debts than the average American, said Michele Turkel, a credit card industry consultant in Scarsdale, N.Y. And their ratio of delinquent loans to total debt outstanding is half that of borrowers generally, she said.
For Hispanics without a credit history, banks are offering secured credit cards, which are backed by a set amount that the customer deposits in a bank. If the customer fails to pay his bill in 60 days, the bank can use the money to pay the outstanding debts.
"After these customers prove themselves, we graduate them to regular unsecured cards," said Joseph Hoffman, head of marketing at the Metris Companies, a financial services company in Minnetonka, Minn.
Metris, which decided three years ago to focus on the Hispanic market, has worked carefully to win consumers' loyalty. It started out offering a credit card to customers at La Curacao, a Los Angeles home furnishings and electronics retailer that caters to the Hispanic market.
Last year, Metris bought the credit card portfolio of Banco Popular. "The next step is to build our own brand from scratch," Mr. Hoffman said.
Metris is working with MasterCard, the most aggressive marketer to Hispanics among the major credit card operations. Last December, MasterCard introduced a Spanish-language Web site and is trying to have other companies like Metris market to Hispanic consumers through the site.
Both banks and credit card companies need to be mindful of cultural or linguistic differences among Hispanic groups. Financial institutions, for example, have learned not to hire telephone representatives with Cuban accents to call Mexican-Americans. "We use a Walter Cronkite-type accent," said William Bralye, who runs Hispanic marketing at Wells Fargo.
And Spanish words can take on different meanings from country to country. Astrid Rial, president of Arial International, a consulting firm in University Place, Wash., focuses on teaching companies what she calls "business Spanish."
"We try to teach people to speak neutral Spanish," she said. "The accent is not as big a concern as using the right words."
Of course, Hispanics might respond better to the banks' pitches if there were more Hispanics employed by the financial services industry, some executives said. A survey by the Securities Industry Association estimated that just 3 percent of Wall Street professionals are Hispanic. Ms. De La Mora, the Smith Barney broker, said fewer than 1 percent of her colleagues at Salomon Smith Barney were Hispanic.
"The financial services industry has to develop a Hispanic hiring initiative," said Mr. El Hage, the Houston ad executive. "You can have dozens of branches, but if the staff can't relate to their customers, it's use

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wells Fargo redesigned this branch office in South Gate, Calif., to try to attract more business among Hispanics.; Hispanics are not only less likely than other Americans are to entrust their money to banks and brokerage firms, they are also less likely to be employed by them. Adriana De La Mora, a broker in Chicago, says fewer than 1 percent of her colleagues at Salomon Smith Barney are Hispanic. (Above, Stephanie Diani for The New York Times; Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)(pg. C1); One bank that caters to Hispanics is Banco Popular, which is based in Puerto Rico. This branch office is on Castle Hill Avenue in the Bronx. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. C17) Chart: "Bank Shy"Households with deposit accounts (savings, checking, money market or brokerage accounts): All households: 88%Hispanic: 58%Black: 71%Asian: 86%White: 93% Workers who are very confident they will have enough money to live comfortably in retirement: All workers: 22%Hispanics: 13%Blacks: 23%Asians: 33%(Sources: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 1997; Employee Benefit Research Institute, 2001)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (88%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (87%); CREDIT CARDS (87%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CENSUS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (73%); ETHNICITY (73%); CINCO DE MAYO (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); STATISTICS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (56%) BANKS AND BANKING; ADVERTISING; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); MASTERCARD INC (83%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (59%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); MA (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (83%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%)

PERSON: ATLAS, RIVA D 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



508 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Sierra Leone Is Swamped By Graft, Ex-Aide Says 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 15 

 BODY:
The former finance minister of Sierra Leone said in an interview this week that while the country has begun to make some progress in restoring peace and rebuilding itself after years of intermittent civil war, corruption threatens to undercut both economic and democratic development.
 The former minister, James Jonah, resigned recently and is now at City University writing a book about his long involvement with the United Nations. He said that decades of turmoil have made corruption "congenital" in Sierra Leone, now the setting for the United Nations' largest current peacekeeping operation. 
 The country is awaiting the establishment of a special war crimes tribunal to deal with Foday Sankoh and other leaders of the Revolutionary United Front, which waged a savage guerrilla war marked by chopping off limbs and burning villages. But plans for the court are stalled while Secretary General Kofi Annan struggles to get enough money from United Nations members to set it up. 
Meanwhile, Mr. Jonah said, corruption in the country is not only rampant among the political elite but also in the press.
"It is my strong belief that you cannot have democracy without a vibrant, independent press," he said. "You can't. They should be the custodians and the guardians." Instead, he said, a profusion of inexperienced newspaper reporters and editors who are taking advantage of the opportunity to create a free press are quickly yielding to the temptation to accept payments from people who want articles written to their specifications. 
"Many of these people are not trained journalists," he said, adding that they drift into journalism out of economic necessity and are preyed on by the powerful. "They have gone to college," Mr. Jonah said, "and there is a very high percentage of unemployment among youth."
Mr. Jonah -- who was educated in the United States, graduated from Lincoln University in Pennsylvania and holds a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology -- said Sierra Leone gets little expert assistance from Western press organizations. The rest of the world only notices, he said -- and then with criticism -- when the government tries to rein in publications for unsubstantiated negative reports about officials that influence outside investors and international lending organizations.
"No matter what we do, they will jump on us," he said, referring to Western press monitors.
Sierra Leone must hold a presidential election in the fall unless it is further postponed by the national state of emergency, which enabled the government of President Ahmed Tejan Kabbah to delay a vote early this year.
Mr. Jonah retired from the United Nations in 1994 as under secretary general for political affairs and has been awarded a fellowship by the Carnegie Corporation of New York to work at City University with the Ralph Bunche Institute, which was named for the first African-American under secretary general. In the interview, he described Sierra Leone's president, also a former United Nations official, as the country's first political leader in 35 years who was not corrupt.
The problem, he said, is the traditional political class. "I am not so sure they can make democracy thrive," he said. He described them as inured to corruption and devoid of ethical standards.
At the Committee to Protect Journalists, based in New York, Yves Sorokobi, the Africa program coordinator, was even more emphatic than Mr. Jonah about the economic roots of news media corruption in the press and the public. He said that Sierra Leone, like many places in Africa, essentially has no middle class. Many professionals have fled.
"It's true, up to a point, that some journalists may be taking bribes, but I think that can be explained by the misery in Sierra Leone, the very high level of poverty caused by the war, and also caused by just mismanagement and panic among government officials about how to handle the economic crisis," he said. "Journalists are just reflecting a trend that is affecting the whole society. "
A ruined economy takes its toll, he said. 
"It's a combination of news organizations being generally financially very weak, and that financial weakness is explained by the fact the readership is very small, based on the reality that illiteracy is extremely high," Mr. Sorokobi said. "Advertising is also a problem. In most poor countries, the government is the main ad provider. Generally the government is in some sort of conflict with newspapers. It's a very twisted web of cause and effect." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); JOURNALISM (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ETHICS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); WAR CRIMES (77%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); TRENDS (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); FOUNDATIONS (60%); FOREIGN LENDING (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ETHICS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: JONAH, JAMES; CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) SIERRA LEONE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) SIERRA LEONE

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



509 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Seattle Journal; 
An Unlikely Protest at a Starbucks

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, June 19 

 BODY:
After a white police officer here fatally shot a black man late last month, the aftermath followed in many ways a sadly familiar refrain. 
 The relatives of the dead man, Aaron Roberts, said he was a victim of racist police. The white officer who killed him said the shooting was justified, contending that Mr. Roberts, 37, had placed another officer's life in jeopardy. City and county officials have promised a full investigation; the F.B.I. is on the case. 
 But as these inquiries go forward, an unusual question hovers over the controversy here in Seattle: what does Starbucks have to do with it? 
On the surface, nothing. But after a neighborhood group here called for a boycott of a local Starbucks as one means of expressing rage over the police shooting, the Seattle-based coffee giant has been dragged, much to its bewilderment, into the fray. 
The attempted boycott at the store in the Central District, a hub of Seattle's black community, is an effort to get a powerful local corporation to back changes in police oversight. The effort has generated a local debate that at times almost seems to have eclipsed the attention paid to the shooting of Mr. Roberts. Not that it appears to have dampened business: with the focus on the store in recent days, Starbucks officials said, sales have been up, not down. 
Even so, about 80 protesters with a group called the People's Coalition for Justice circled the coffee shop one night last week, beseeching customers to stay out and chanting "No justice, no peace, no racist police." 
The Rev. Robert L. Jeffrey Sr., pastor of the New Hope Baptist Church and a leader of the protest group, said the group's goal was to pressure powerful companies into demanding the creation of an independent civilian review board to investigate the death of Mr. Roberts and other police shootings, as well as passage of a statute that would criminalize racial profiling. 
"These corporations drive public policy, and politicians are in the middle," Mr. Jeffrey said. "And just dealing with the poor guy in the middle doesn't cut it anymore. We've got to start dealing directly with the corporations that want our business." 
Starbucks' senior vice president for worldwide public affairs, Wanda Herndon, said the company was "deeply hurt and perplexed" by calls for a boycott, especially because the store is one whose opening four years ago was hailed by city officials as a symbol of hope for the economically distressed neighborhood. The company is a major contributor to philanthropic efforts there. 
But Ms. Herndon said that while the company acknowledged the frustration many feel over the Roberts shooting, it would be inappropriate to heed the protesters' demands. 
"We're not a political organization, we're not an activist organization," she said. "We're a coffee company. And we're trying to do what we do well, which is provide a safe community gathering place for people." 
Many customers at the store this weekend said they were bewildered by the call for a boycott. 
"Starbucks seems to get blamed for a lot of things," said Edric Bowles, 31, who mentioned the trashing of several of the chain's stores during the 1999 protests against the World Trade Organization here. "They're an entity that gets targeted for no real reason at all." 
But several people outside the store said they supported the idea.
The shooting occurred on May 31 after Mr. Roberts, a neighborhood resident who turned out to be wanted for fleeing a prison work-release program, was stopped by the two officers for driving erratically. The police said that Officer Craig Price fired after Mr. Roberts tried to drive off with Mr. Price's partner, Greg Neubert, hanging from the car door. 
Mr. Roberts was shot once in the torso. His relatives and others in the area question the police account and, in any event, say the shooting was a gross overreaction; the two officers are on administrative leave pending the results of various investigations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Shank joined a protest on Sunday in Seattle's Central District, where a group wants Starbucks to support changes in police oversight. (Dean Rutz/The Seattle Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLITICS (86%); RIOTS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); RACIAL PROFILING (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COUNTIES (71%); CITIES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); PHILANTHROPY (60%) POLICE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; BLACKS; BOYCOTTS 

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%); LOCAL CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%) STARBUCKS CORP 

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%); LOCM (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (69%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (69%) SIC5499 MISC. FOOD STORES; 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; ROBERTS, AARON 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%) WASHINGTON, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) SEATTLE (WASH)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



510 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: Behind Rancor, a Clash of Ideas In New Jersey's G.O.P. Primary 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 19 

 BODY:
So far, the Republican primary campaign for governor here has focused more on personal attacks and tactical arm wrestling than on any deep philosophical differences.
 But as Bob Franks and Bret D. Schundler sprint toward next Tuesday's primary in a race that appears far closer than almost anyone had expected, all but forgotten has been how sharply their ideas and agendas for New Jersey differ. 
 The race sets Mr. Franks, who proudly campaigns as a pragmatic centrist, against Mr. Schundler, who flaunts his conservative credentials at every turn. What voters will have to decide is whether Mr. Franks's proposals are the sort of prudent reforms that New Jersey needs or merely warmed-over notions that were unappetizing the first time around, and whether Mr. Schundler's ideas are bold and visionary or dangerous and half-baked. 
In their literature and on the stump, the two Republicans sell themselves in very different ways. Mr. Franks, the candidate of the moderate establishment -- gearing his campaign to the November election, when the Republican nominee will face James E. McGreevey, the Democratic candidate -- calls for term limits, citizen-initiated referendums, and other changes in the way Trenton works.
Mr. Schundler, the candidate of the little-known New Jersey right, conjures an idealistic conservative's vision of lower taxes, vanishing toll booths and reined-in government spending, while pinning all of these hopes on a complex plan to save money by promoting school choice.
Mr. Franks is running as a reformer out to change the clubby world of state politics in Trenton, where he served as an assemblyman until 1992, when he was elected to Congress. But some of his reformist proposals were more current then. His top aides acknowledge that Mr. Franks has not put forth a single major proposal developed solely for the governor's race.
"I think that some of the key planks of Bob's platform have been reforms that he has advocated since he entered public life," said Bill Ulrey, Mr. Franks's policy director. "There are also things he advocated in Congress, which he now wants to bring back to the state level."
Even if Mr. Franks had more dramatic goals, he had reason not to voice them during the primary campaign, said David P. Rebovich, a political science professor at Rider University. "Schundler has outflanked him on the conservative-libertarian front," he said. "And Franks can't go too far to the center or left, otherwise he starts to sound too much like a Democrat in a Republican primary."
One ambitious idea which Mr. Franks claims as his own is for an elected state auditor, a post that exists in Pennsylvania and elsewhere. It would amount to a political revolution in New Jersey, where the governor's pulpit and power are the envy of other states largely because he or she has no elected rival at the state level.
Mr. Rebovich said an elected auditor would be unlikely to gain legislative support, but is a safe subject in a primary campaign. "Franks is basically a moderate," he said. "So how do you try to make yourself look a little conservative? By saying you are in favor of a state auditor, which has the symbolic meaning of saying, 'I am going to cut state spending,' without saying where or how."
Mr. Franks, a politician more interested in the possible than the ideal, has favored an incremental approach as a legislator. His transportation agenda, for example, is filled with long-discussed initiatives, including some that are decades old, like pushing for a new freight rail tunnel under the Hudson River and urging further dredging of the Port of New York and New Jersey. He also supports a plan for a rail line linking Monmouth, Ocean and Middlesex Counties. 
He announced his transportation proposals recently at an old train station in Freehold, now used as a bus stop. Mr. Franks told how supporters of the rail line had sought his assistance when he was in Congress.
But Bill Braden, the chairman of the Central Jersey Rail Coalition, the main proponent of the project, recalled things differently. 
"He called us," Mr. Braden said. "He had heard about the project and he wanted to find out more about it." Mr. Braden, who lives in Toms River, said he appreciated a politician who knows how to spot a good idea. "The ideas are out there," he said. "We need somebody to get in there and just say, 'Do it.' " 
For Mr. Franks, the big idea, the vision, is in both the totality of his proposals on things like transportation and government reform, and more importantly, his ability to put them into practice by getting elected in the first place. So he dismisses Mr. Schundler as being overly enamored of ideas as an end in themselves, and incapable of seeing them through.
"I think Bob Franks will be a very hands-on, get-it-done governor," said Mr. Ulrey, his policy director. "There is not a lot of room to have a chief executive who is pie-in-the-sky. You need someone who can move the ball forward every day." 
To Mr. Schundler, by contrast, Mr. Franks is someone to who ideas are just a means to a political end, a defeatist unwilling to fight the Republican fight. 
On the campaign trail, Mr. Schundler pounds core conservative tenets like tax cuts and smaller government at every turn. He constantly compares himself to Ronald Reagan -- a hero to Republicans, Mr. Schundler's aides say.
But Jon J. Shure, president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a liberal think tank here, said Mr. Schundler's rhetoric seemed to blend Mr. Reagan with another politician whom Mr. Schundler has cited as an influence: Gary Hart, the Democrat whose presidential campaign he worked for in 1984. Mr. Schundler says Mr. Hart turned him away from the Democratic party; he became a Republican in 1991.
"The ideology behind the things he proposes is all Ronald Reagan, but he's got this Gary Hart element, almost of ideas for the sake of ideas," Mr. Shure said. "You were supposed to like Gary Hart not just because of what the ideas were, but because he had them in the first place."
Mr. Shure recalled that Mr. Hart was defeated by Mr. Mondale, who punctured his image with a simple question: "Where's the beef?" The same question has been asked by Mr. Franks about some of Mr. Schundler's proposals.
In April, for example, Mr. Schundler announced a plan to save taxpayers close to $1 billion by controlling government spending so that it rises no faster than the rate of inflation. He promised to use that savings for massive cuts in property and income taxes. But he did not detail where in the state's $23.2 billion budget he would find the $1 billion, or how he could slow down spending growth that has been occurring at two or three times the rate of inflation in recent years.
"He has to get in there and take a look at what efficiencies can be found," said Bill Guhl, a spokesman for Mr. Schundler.
Mr. Schundler also vows to make the Garden State Parkway a freeway, resulting in a net loss of $100 million in toll revenues. Pressed to say if Mr. Schundler would raises taxes to make up that loss, Mr. Guhl said, "He'll use some of the savings he finds in the budget."
But coming up with those savings will not be easy, state budget analysts say, particularly because many spending increases, like school aid, involve factors that have nothing to do with the rate of inflation, like court orders.
The underpinning of Mr. Schundler's plan to cut the budget -- and of his campaign itself -- is his school-choice plan, a recipe for education reform predicated on a chain reaction of causes and effects.
He proposes tax credits to encourage businesses and donors to give to charities that will offer scholarships to poor children, and tax credits for parents to apply toward the cost of private or parochial school tuition. This, he predicts, will produce enough money to enable nearly 84,000 students to leave the public schools. The public schools, thus unburdened, will produce a savings of more than $1 billion a year, or nearly $13,000 per child. After the costs of the tax credits, his plan envisions a savings of $480 million for taxpayers.
But Kathy Christie, vice president of the Education Commission of the States, who monitors state education policies, said Mr. Schundler's assumptions were highly speculative. "What happens," she said, "is that five kids leave in three classes, and it's not enough to combine two classes and lose a teacher. And no matter what happens, you still have the buses and buildings, and the central staff for administration. That's why districts cry when they lose students to choice."
The choice on Tuesday, of course, will depend not only on the candidates' ideas, and which of them is best prepared to act on them, but on whether primary voters have a message in mind of their own, said Mr. Rebovich, the Rider professor.
"Franks is making an effort to say to the voters, 'I know the Republicans in Trenton have not heard you folks, in regard to property tax rates, auto insurance and sprawl, but I, Bob Franks, have," ' Mr. Rebovich said. "The question is whether they take him seriously, or do they view this as a time for a real shakeup, and see Schundler as a guy who can institute some real changes." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (94%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); REFERENDUMS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TERM LIMITS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (70%); BUDGETS (70%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); SCHOOL CHOICE (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES; GOVERNORS (US); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOUCHERS; TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TOLLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: SCHUNDLER, BRET D (MAYOR); FRANKS, BOB; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (MAYOR); HALBFINGER, DAVID M; HERSZENHORN, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



511 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
Where Pigs Get Licenses To Fly

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
THE first thought is something like, uh-oh, this is it: the end of days. Hell must have finally frozen over. Or maybe someone should check to see if lions are lying down with lambs all over the world.
 Can there be any other explanation, you wonder, for the startling changes that have taken place at the New York State Department of Motor Vehicles? 
 In New York City, department offices used to be the temporal equivalent to purgatory, only without the charm. Lines were so long that they made you think of Moscow in the Communist days when word went out that a fresh shipment of onions was in. And you took for granted that there was an official policy requiring that clerks be fired if they showed a glimmer of courtesy.
Now?
Visits to D.M.V. branches in Harlem, Midtown and Lower Manhattan show that lines move quickly, if they exist at all. The offices are clean and well lighted. There are benches for you while you wait. Electronic signs direct you efficiently to the right counter. Clerks are pleasant, even enthusiastic about their work. They say things like -- get this -- "How can we help you this afternoon?"
Perhaps this is old hat to you. Many of these improvements have been around for a while. But millions of people go years without setting foot inside a Motor Vehicles office, not until they renew a driver's license or register a car. To them, the new order is a revelation, and they are as dazzled by it as Dorothy was when she stepped out of her black-and-white house and into Technicolor Oz.
"How sweet is this?" said a disbelieving John Doody, a lawyer who went the other day to the department's main office on Greenwich Street, just off Bowling Green. He was there to pick up a motorcycle license.
"Let's see," Mr. Doody said, looking at his watch as he left the office. "From the minute I stepped in until I got out: eight minutes. I even had a woman behind the counter say, 'Sorry for the delay.' And the delay was all of 30 seconds."
It took John Palmer, a travel consultant, 25 minutes from start to finish to get a temporary license. "I was absolutely shocked," he said. "Everybody thinks this place is going to be an absolute zoo."
One after another, they left the Greenwich Street office bearing the stunned looks of condemned men and women who thought that they were going to their hanging and found instead that they had been granted clemency. A security guard at this branch said the shock was standard.
"People," he said, "say to me, 'I took the whole day off from work, and I'm out in 10 minutes. What am I going to do with the rest of the day?' They say it in a light mood, of course. They are glad at how it works."
The point, in case you haven't already figured it out, is that even notorious bureaucracies can reform themselves if they try. The D.M.V. is a perfect example.
THERE are 10.6 million licensed drivers in New York State, and in a typical year, 2 million or more New Yorkers renew their licenses. Almost no other state agency looms so large for the ordinary Joe who goes about his business and is not on welfare or unemployed or in jail. Yet for what seemed like eons, especially in New York City, D.M.V. might as well have stood for Determinedly Mismanaged Vipers.
Things have changed so much that the department's Web site (www.nydmv.state.ny.us) includes links to promotional material for Gov. George E. Pataki. This is thinly disguised politicking that some may see as unseemly, at best. Nonetheless, it is interesting. Mr. Pataki clearly doesn't believe that having this agency tied to him is the kiss of death it once may have been. Quite the opposite.
Joe Picchi, a department spokesman, said that the lines should shrink even further as more New Yorkers take care of business by mail or on the Internet. "Our average wait time in our offices is now under 30 minutes," he said. "It used to be 63 minutes." That was in the early 1990's. And that was statewide. In the city, it could sometimes take hours to reach the front of the line.
"Surveys show that customer satisfaction has gone up dramatically," Mr. Picchi said.
So if Motor Vehicles can change, why not others?
Think of it: a world where the post office assigns more than one person to counter duty when 75 people are in line, where all subway announcements are intelligible, where clerks at a certain fast-growing chain of drugstores are taught that surliness is not a job qualification.
Or must hell indeed first freeze over? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LICENSES & PERMITS (86%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); DRIVERS LICENSES (69%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%) AUTOMOBILES 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES (NYS) 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



512 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 895 words

PERSON: Angelo Falcon 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A 20-Year Battler for Puerto Rican Political Pull

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIFNER 

 BODY:
I GUESS it's just in my blood to be a pain," Angelo Falcon reflected happily. "I'm always busting chops."
 Actually, that's not entirely what he said. Mr. Falcon was quite precise about just where he was a pain. However, like much of his cheerfully profane recollections of nearly 20 years of political battles fought and enemies made, it had to be cleaned up a little for the pages of a family newspaper. 
 As what he calls a "guerrilla researcher" on Puerto Rican and Latino affairs, he has struggled mightily to improve Hispanic political clout without, he concedes, a great deal of success.
"I could fill this room full of reports," he said, gesturing around his small backroom office at the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund Institute for Puerto Rican Policy, where he is senior policy executive. "Very nice reports. But nobody does anything. We are still dealing with first-generation issues."
The room looked as if it was already full of reports, along with, despite Mr. Falcon's cantankerous nature, a large array of congratulatory plaques and awards and mounds of bric-a-brac, including a plastic replica of a plate of rice and beans. Much of one wall was taken up with a rather startling painting. Rising from a troubled sea is a big, jagged pile of rocks draped in chains -- symbolizing the fragmented, powerless Puerto Rican community -- which finally comes together in a big monolith labeled iPr, the logo of Mr. Falcon's original organization, the Institute for Puerto Rican Policy. And on top of all this is a huge falcon, its wings decorated with the colors and star of the Puerto Rican flag. His half-brother, Joseph Grau, painted it to celebrate the 15th anniversary of the group, which merged with the defense fund three years ago.
"He did a real nice job," Mr. Falcon said.
The potential power of the Puerto Rican vote is very much in the air these days, and all the major mayoral candidates except Michael R. Bloomberg are expected to attend a forum on Latino issues today sponsored by the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund. (Mr. Bloomberg was already booked with an opposite demographic group -- the Gramercy Park Republican Club -- but an aide pointed out that he has been studying Spanish for a year.) Politicians here, including Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, are joining in calls for an end to Navy bombing practice on the island of Vieques. The fund has a hand in that issue, too, with a suit charging environmental damage.
But Mr. Falcon, 50, is contrary.
"THIS should be the fifth Latino forum, not the first," he said. "It's distressing to me how loyal the Latino vote is to the Democratic Party. It's very, very loyal without exacting much in terms of accountability. It's taken for granted. "To talk about Hispanics or Latinos is not a simple thing," he said, summing up his years of research and advocacy.
Mr. Falcon, who was born in Puerto Rico and grew up in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, probably acquired his attitude at Public School 17. The principal there, white, refused to let his students, mostly Puerto Rican, take the entrance exam for the prestigious Brooklyn Technical High School. Mr. Falcon organized the other students and their parents to fight to take the test. He was the only one admitted. In high school he was influenced by Aspira, a Puerto Rican self-help organization that encouraged youths to go to college. "I wasn't used to seeing Puerto Ricans running things," he said. "In my neighborhood, all the professional people were Jewish."
He decided he wanted to go to Columbia (some in the neighborhood asked why he needed to go so far, to Latin America, for schooling), but again, the guidance counselor, white, didn't want him to apply. This was 1969, the year after the student revolt at Columbia, and the university was under pressure to increase its scant minority enrollment. He was summoned to Morningside Heights.
"I was interviewed in the middle of the night, off campus -- it was really bizarre," he remembered. "I didn't have illusions this was normal. I got to see the process behind the curtain, how community pressure opened doors.
"Those were crazy years. It seemed we were always taking over buildings," he remembered. He took a leave after three years, worked for Aspira, came back and graduated from a much straighter campus in 1976. He went on to the State University of New York at Albany (immediately angering the professors by organizing graduate students) but was discouraged from his chosen focus on Puerto Rican politics as too narrow.
Underemployed as a part-time teacher at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, he founded his institute, which consisted largely of himself. "It was this rinky-dink little office. Sometimes, I would fire everybody for three months. They would go on unemployment and work as volunteers," he said, recounting memorable battles with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, the Coors brewing dynasty and virtually all of the Puerto Rican electoral establishment. There was a newsletter full of insider political gossip that was "a guilty pleasure," he recalled. "People would say, 'This is horrible,' then they'd read the whole thing.
"We don't raise these issues in order to be a troublemaker that is then brought into the system. Our role is genuinely just to be a troublemaker," he said. "I want to raise a whole new generation of troublemakers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: ANGELO FALCON (Elizabeth Lippman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (84%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); MAYORS (69%); BOMBINGS (60%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) ELECTIONS; PUERTO RICANS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: PUERTO RICAN LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (83%) PUERTO RICAN LEGAL DEFENSE AND EDUCATION FUND; INSTITUTE FOR PUERTO RICAN POLICY 

MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) KIFNER, JOHN; FALCON, ANGELO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PUERTO RICO (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



513 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing West: California: Scaling Back On Education 

BYLINE:  By Todd S. Purdum (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Lagging tax revenues have convinced Gov. Gray Davis that he has to cut more than $500 million from his education spending proposals, including some programs he had called his top priorities. 
Davis aides said the governor had agreed to abandon his hope of extending the middle-school year, along with other programs for elementary and secondary schools and community colleges. Mr. Davis had vowed to increase education spending by 6.4 percent, despite the state's energy problems and projections of a slipping economy. Todd S. Purdum (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (85%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (85%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (85%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (53%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); PURDUM, TODD S 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



514 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Gucci Group Reports Disappointing Quarterly Results 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, June 19 

 BODY:
In a sign that an aggressive strategy may have left it dangerously exposed as the world economy slows, the luxury goods maker Gucci Group N.V. reported disappointing first-quarter results and lowered its sales and profit forecasts for the year. The rising cost of revamping Yves Saint Laurent, which Gucci bought in 1999, was a major factor in the shortfall, the company said.
 Investors initially reacted by lopping 12 percent off Gucci's share price, but the stock later recovered some of the lost ground and closed down 5.3 percent, at 96.25 euros a share, in European trading. 
 Gucci said it now expected $2.45 billion in sales and $410 million in Ebitda, or earnings before interest payments, taxes, depreciation and amortization, in the year ending Jan. 31, 2002; it had previously forecast sales of $2.6 billion and $440 million in Ebitda. Over the last two years, the two men who successfully turned the core Gucci brand around -- the chief executive Domenico De Sole and the designer Tom Ford -- have made 11 acquisitions in an effort to make the company into a multibrand powerhouse to rival LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton.
The war chest to pay for the acquisitions came largely from Pinault-Printemps-Redoute, which paid $2.9 billion for a 42 percent stake in the company in 1999 in a deal intended to prevent LVMH from gradually gaining control. The new shares issued to Pinault-Printemps-Redoute had the effect of reducing LVMH's stake in Gucci from 34 percent to 20 percent. A court in the Netherlands, Gucci's legal home for tax reasons, is investigating the matter.
Concern has grown among analysts that Gucci is spreading itself too thinly at a time when rivals are gloomy about softening demand in the United States and Japan.
"There has always been a question as to whether Gucci is taking control of too many volatile companies," said Simon Raggett of Williams de Broe. "Clearly, that question is underscored now that these businesses are struggling in the short term, and the economic slowdown makes it more difficult to sustain confidence."
In response, Mr. De Sole points to the continued strong performance of the flagship Gucci division, whose operating profit rose 24 percent in the first quarter on an 11 percent increase in sales, as evidence that the company has not lost focus. At the same time, he said, the company is moving to shore up other brands in its stable, and just today installed a new management team at Bottega Veneta, an Italian leather goods maker it owns. 
Analysts say reviving a fashion brand can take as long as six years; viewed in that light, Mr. De Sole said, weak sales at Yves Saint Laurent are normal and to be expected as the company unwinds licensing deals and tightens distribution.
Mr. De Sole said the initial reception for Yves Saint Laurent's autumn collection, designed by Mr. Ford and just appearing in stores, was strong enough to justify investing more in advertising and store remodeling. But those costs will push back the target date for profitability by a year, to the end of 2003, he said.
For the quarter ended April 30, the Gucci Group reported net income of $55.9 million, or 55 cents a share. Though up nearly 20 percent from the quarter a year earlier, the figures fell short of analysts' average forecast of a 42 percent increase in profits. Sales in the quarter rose to $560 million from $531 million a year ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); HANDBAG & PURSE MFG (90%); EBITDA (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); LEATHER & ALLIED PRODUCT MFG (73%); NEW ISSUES (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: GUCCI GROUP NV (97%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (95%); PPR SA (93%)

ORGANIZATION: GUCCI GROUP 

TICKER: MC (PAR) (95%); LVMH (BIT) (95%); PP (PAR) (93%); PP (BIT) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (97%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (95%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (93%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (93%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (93%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%) SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS; 

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



515 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD 

BYLINE:  By Karen W. Arenson, Lynette Holloway, Abby Goodnough and Anemona Hartocollis 

 BODY:
New President for Connecticut College 
Connecticut College has named NORMAN FAINSTEIN, left, as its next president, effective Oct. 15. He succeeds CLAIRE L. GAUDIANI, who will step down on June 30 after 13 years. Dr. Fainstein, the dean of faculty at Vassar, graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and also earned a Ph.D. in political science there. He has written on urban social movements, racial stratification and urban planning. Before going to Vassar, he was dean of the School of Liberal Arts and Sciences at Baruch College in New York. 

Interim Superintendent Interviewed
A selection committee for Community School District 15, in Brooklyn, interviewed the interim superintendent, CARMEN FARINA, last week for the permanent position. Mrs. Farina, former principal of Public School 6 on the Upper East Side in Manhattan, became interim superintendent on Feb. 1, succeeding FRANK DESTEFANO, who left under fire from parents unhappy with his management style and the district's financial condition. 

Adding to Mellon Foundation Roster
The collection of current and former education executives at the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation is growing. The newest recruit is PHILLIP A. GRIFFITHS, director of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., who will help develop new Mellon fellowship programs for faculty members in the humanities while continuing to serve as director of the institute. Others at Mellon or scheduled to join it soon include NEIL RUDENSTINE, the departing president of Harvard University; MARY PATTERSON McPHERSON, the former president of Bryn Mawr; ALICE F. EMERSON, the former president of Wheaton College; and WILLIAM G. BOWEN, the former president of Princeton, who is Mellon's president.

Programs Join High School and College
A report released last week found that the city school system and the City University of New York have come a long way in creating joint programs to help students make the transition from high school to college. The report, by the Center for an Urban Future, singled out College Now, which allows advanced high school students to take courses for college credit and offers remedial help to struggling students. That program has been expanded over the last year to all 17 CUNY campuses and now serves 13,000 students at 161 high schools.

From Washington to New School
New School University is bringing in another Washington heavyweight: ALICE M. RIVLIN, left, former vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve Board and founding director of the Congressional Budget Office. Dr. Rivlin, who has a Ph.D. in economics from Radcliffe, will join New School's Robert J. Milano Graduate School of Management and Urban Policy as the first holder of the Henry Cohen Professorship in September. She will split her time between New School and the Brookings Institution, where she is a senior fellow. Earlier this year, New School named KENNETH PREWITT, the director of the United States Census Bureau, as dean of its graduate faculty. 

Culinary Arts Scholarships
Twenty New York City high school seniors have been awarded culinary arts scholarships ranging from $2,000 to $40,000 after winning a cooking competition judged by prominent chefs and sponsored by the nonprofit Careers Through Culinary Arts program. Among the biggest scholarship winners are two students at John Dewey High School in Brooklyn, Georgiy Levitskiy, $24,750 to go to the French Culinary Institute, and Lataya Reid, $40,000 to go to Johnson & Wales University; two students at Long Island City High School who will both attend the Culinary Institute of America, Mehdi Chellaoui, $20,000, and Carlos Osorio, $33,320; and Maria Longo of Tottenville High School in Staten Island, who won $29,109 to attend the New York Restaurant School.

Book Readings in Schools
Adding education to the familiar synergy of show business and book publishing, Talk Miramax Books is holding a series of readings -- from its own book list, of course -- in New York City public schools. The first readings took place Monday and Tuesday, as students at three Manhattan middle schools read excerpts from "Artemis Fowl," a fantasy-adventure about a 12-year-old criminal mastermind by a former schoolteacher, EOIN COLFER. The students then discussed those passages with the author and one of three celebrities: TIKI BARBER of the New York Giants; RUSSELL SIMMONS, the hip-hop impresario; and TRACY MORGAN, an actor on "Saturday Night Live." 
 Karen W. Arenson, Lynette Holloway, Abby Goodnough and Anemona Hartocollis

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); BUDGETS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); CENSUS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (55%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE; GOODNOUGH, ABBY; HARTOCOLLIS, ANEMONA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



516 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Future May Be More Uncertain For Technology

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
With the Nasdaq composite index up 23 percent from its April lows, investors are clearly betting that the worst is over for technology stocks. But according to an extensive new report from Merrill Lynch that examines the financial results of 37 technology favorites, those bets may be premature.
 The study shows that even at their current depressed levels, technology shares remain expensive. That is because long before the economy turned south and even as their reported earnings soared, technology stocks' true earnings had begun deteriorating. 
 "On average, real tech earnings are less than they appear," said Steve Milunovich, technology strategist at Merrill Lynch. "As a result, valuations are higher than investors think."
The earnings slide among technology companies started three years ago, but the deterioration was hidden from many investors' views by accounting gimmickry and a roaring stock market.
Everybody knows that a rising stock market lifts all boats. But as Mr. Milunovich's study shows, the market's big surge that began three years ago lifted the largest technology stocks far higher than it did other sectors. Now, with the overall market in the doldrums, technology companies' earnings in future quarters will lack a lot of the juice that made them seem so superpowered in the recent past. 
Perhaps the single biggest contributor to technology stock earnings during the mania was the use of stock options, which these companies bestowed on employees in lieu of higher salaries. Technology companies benefited two ways from options. First, because the cost of stock option grants are not considered a wage expense, the earnings at companies giving out large option grants looked better than the results at companies that paid cash to workers.
In addition, companies receive sizable tax deductions from stock options when they are exercised. That is because employees who exercise their options must pay income tax on the difference between the option's strike price and the current market price, and companies receive a tax deduction in that amount. These tax benefits show up in a company's operating cash flow.
Mr. Milunovich and Gary Schieneman, an accounting analyst at Merrill Lynch, computed what these two benefits contributed to earnings at the technology companies they studied, including America Online, now AOL Time Warner; Applied Materials; Microsoft; Sun Microsystems; Juniper Networks; and Qualcomm.
Had the companies considered their options a wage cost, their 2000 earnings would have been reduced an average of 60 percent. More specifically, earnings would have been 49 percent lower at America Online, 40 percent lower at Nortel Networks and 63 percent less at Lucent Technologies if options had been accounted for as an expense. 
The tax deductions associated with employee option grants also gave these companies a big boost, on average accounting for 48 percent of their operating cash flows. That is double the contribution made by option grants in 1999. 
For instance, stock option tax benefits made up 67 percent of operating cash flow at Sun Microsystems, 41 percent at Cisco Systems, 34 percent at Yahoo and 30 percent at Juniper Networks. 
Mr. Milunovich said that these tax benefits helped mask a severe deterioration in technology companies' cash flows that began three years ago. When he compared cash flows to earnings, he found the ratio fell from 2.2 to 1 in 1998 to 1.2 to 1 last year. But when he excluded the tax benefits owing to option exercise, cash flows declined to roughly equal the level of earnings. When a company's cash flow falls below its earnings, it indicates the inclusion of significant noncash items in a company's income.
Thanks to the desultory stock market, both stock option benefits are now becoming banes. Falling share prices have made many employees' options worthless; as of late March, Mr. Milunovich estimated that 41 percent of the options handed out by the companies he studied were underwater.
Mr. Milunovich suspects that the companies with large numbers of underwater options will reprice them in coming months to reflect depressed stock levels. As a result, he says he thinks some managements may have an incentive to keep their stocks' prices depressed until the period -- six months and one day -- passes that repricings can occur without a company taking a hit to its earnings under accounting rules. 
According to Mr. Milunovich, it is more important than ever for investors in technology stocks to look closely at these companies to assess their earnings. "Cash is king," he said. "Tech investors who haven't focused on cash flow have to start looking at it." And for now, anyway, they may not like what they see. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CASH FLOW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (86%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); BONDS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STOCKS AND BONDS; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); AOL INC (81%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (80%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (61%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (52%); QUALCOMM INC (51%); JUNIPER NETWORKS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (81%); ALU (PAR) (61%); ALU (NYSE) (61%); ALU (BIT) (61%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (51%); JNPR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (61%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



517 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: The Lesson of When to Give Aid to Free Markets 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19 

 BODY:
Three weeks ago George W. Bush addressed a sympathetic audience of business executives at the Century Plaza Hotel in Los Angeles and declared that his administration "will not take any action that makes California's problems worse, and that's why I oppose price caps" on electricity.
 As he spoke, the Democratic governor of California, Gray Davis, sat impassively on the dais, preparing to meet Mr. Bush and then denounce him for failing to protect California consumers from an electricity market gone wild. 
 Today, the White House halfheartedly welcomed action by federal regulators to impose throughout the West a system that looks and smells a lot like price caps -- though the White House said it was something different. 
"This is not a price control," Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said. "This is a market-based mitigation plan that now will extend to 11 Western states."
In fact, it bore some resemblance to a proposal made by 10 leading economists who urged a middle ground between fixed prices and a deregulated electricity market. Mr. Davis used their proposal to support his position in favor of limited price restraints when Mr. Bush visited California.
The White House shift from outright opposition to price controls to its more nuanced position today exemplifies how Mr. Bush has tempered his embrace of completely unfettered markets in recent weeks. He didn't have much choice.
As the threat of blackouts loomed, demands for action rose from officials of both parties and from consumers in the West. It was almost possible to hear sighs of relief at the White House today that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission -- an independent body in the Energy Department -- had moved to turn down the political heat.
In fact, while some House Democrats are still pressing for firmer caps on prices, Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, withdrew a bill that would have placed strict price controls on electricity sold in Western markets.
Senator Feinstein said the White House could call yesterday's regulatory action "mitigation" or anything else it pleased.
"A rose is a rose by any other name," she said today.
And a free market is not always free. Two weeks ago the administration said it would rescue steel companies and steelworkers who have long complained about unfair competition from South Korea, Taiwan, China, Brazil, Germany, Russia and Ukraine. The White House defended the action by saying it was the only way for the industry to adjust to a new competitive environment. 
Last month, with no major announcements at the White House, the Bush administration voted for International Monetary Fund aid to two countries, Turkey and Argentina, that (like California) had made some economically disastrous political decisions.
In each case, Mr. Bush's economic orthodoxies were tempered by political realities. 
The California crisis was one thing when it involved a Democratic governor in a state Mr. Bush lost by a million votes; it was another, one of his aides conceded today, when congressional Republicans from around the West were warning Mr. Bush that blackouts and sky-high prices could blow up in his first year in office.
"We heard from a lot of members of Congress who feared that Republicans would be tarred with worsening the problem, even though it happened on Gray Davis's watch," the political aide said. "The president took that on board."
Similarly, the steel decision was partly about enforcing laws against "dumping" foreign products in the market -- and partly about Mr. Bush's desire to convince labor unions not to block his trade agenda. Like Californians coping with higher energy prices, the steelworkers need time to adjust to a new world, the administration said.
"Open markets improve the lives of people by increasing opportunity, choice and economic freedom," Robert B. Zoellick, Mr. Bush's trade representative, said in an interview today. "But compassionate conservatism also recognizes the reality that the effects of rapid change fall harder on some communities and industries," which, he said, need "vital breathing space to adapt to change."
While Mr. Bush expressed deep reservations about I.M.F. bailouts during the presidential campaign, the situation seemed a bit more complicated once he got to Washington. The State and Defense Departments feared that if Turkey were engulfed in economic chaos, and blamed the United States for failing to come to its aid, its leaders might be less inclined to let American fighter jets use its territory to mount missions over Iraq.
So given the choice between letting the Turkish people pay a high price for political mistakes -- Californians take note -- and weakening American pressure on Saddam Hussein, Mr. Bush decided that economic niceties were less important than political consistency. Mr. Bush chose the Pentagon over the Treasury.
Administration officials said these actions did not represent a retreat from let-the-markets-prevail orthodoxy. 
Lawrence B. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser, said in an interview today that he opposed price caps at the beginning of the California crisis and that he opposed them now. But he would not criticize the federal commission for "mitigating" price spikes in the market.
"What they are trying to do is achieve two incompatible missions -- preserving what is called 'just and reasonable pricing' and assuring an adaquate supply of electricity," Mr. Lindsey said. Yet the reality, he added, is that new supplies of electricity will not become available for a year or more. "FERC is doing its best to square that circle in the face of the fundamental problem, which is inadequate supply," he said. 
That is the kind of argument that keeps economists happily arguing for hours. It is not likely to be the kind of argument Mr. Bush himself is likely to engage in for long. As one of his political advisers said the other day, "Don't think about this purely in terms of megawatts. We need to produce more electricity, but we also need to produce some more seats in the House."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, and Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, spoke yesterday before a hearing on electricity prices. The chart showed power rates in two parts of California. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POWER FAILURES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (60%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SHORTAGES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%) FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (89%); GORDON SMITH (78%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); FLEISCHER, ARI; FEINSTEIN, DIANNE (SEN); SMITH, GORDON H (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); GERMANY (73%) CALIFORNIA; WESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



518 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: Cries of 'Save the Suckerfish' Rile Farmers' Political Allies 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: KLAMATH FALLS, Ore., June 16 

 BODY:
Not since the snail darter has a creature so infuriated -- and inspired -- conservatives around the country. The all-but-inedible, bottom-feeding suckerfish, which makes its home in a lake that feeds this normally fertile agricultural valley, has become the latest rallying cry in the battle to rewrite the Endangered Species Act.
 A federal decision to cut off irrigation water in a year of record drought to protect the endangered suckerfish has left 1,400 family farmers and ranchers here seething in resentment and reignited a debate over the federal law that conservatives most love to hate. 
 The region has been without irrigation water since April 7, when the Bureau of Reclamation ordered the cutoff to guarantee maximum protection to the suckerfish and to the threatened coho salmon. 
The silencing of the sprinklers has turned people's lives here upside down, with at least 200,000 acres of farmland parched and no clear idea when the water might flow again. 
The farmers and their supporters have denounced what they call an unconscionable betrayal. And now -- to an extent not seen since the battles over the spotted owl in the early 1990's and the snail darter before that -- conservatives are embracing their cause as the best example yet of what is wrong with a law they say demands revision. Lawmakers are flocking to Klamath Falls to show common cause with its people, and conservative voices like The Wall Street Journal's editorial page are turning up the heat.
"This is ground zero in the debate over the Endangered Species Act," Representative Greg Walden, Republican of Oregon, said on Saturday, kicking off a field hearing in a fairgrounds hall where bleachers were filled with thousands of angry men and women who wore cowboy hats and boots and carried bitter, sardonic signs like one that read: "No water, no crops, no jobs, no farmers. Thank you, United States."
With a federal court having rejected pleas to order a resumption of the water's flow, Mr. Walden and Representative Wally Herger, Republican of California, have asked Gale A. Norton, the interior secretary, to convene the Endangered Species Committee. The panel, made up of seven cabinet-level officials informally known as the God Squad, is charged with weighing economics against extinction and has the power to override provisions of the law that promise primacy to the protection of listed plants and animals.
The group has considered such a request only three times before, in cases involving the whooping crane, the snail darter and the spotted owl. Only once, in the 1991 case of the spotted owl, has the panel authorized action that could further jeopardize a species, and in that case planned timber sales were ultimately dropped because of accusations of illegal lobbying.
The administration has not yet made a decision on the suckerfish request, but a top Interior Department official has held out some prospect for change, promising at Saturday's hearing that the administration would ask outside experts to review an opinion issued in April by the Fish and Wildlife Service that led to the decision to cut off the water. 
The opinion was prepared by career officials at the wildlife service, which is headed by an acting chief because the new administration has not chosen its own. In her testimony, Sue Ellen Wooldridge, Ms. Norton's deputy chief of staff, said the water-level recommendations contained in that opinion had left the reclamation bureau, also still headed by an acting chief, no option but to order the water cutoff.
Congress is expected soon to approve an administration request for some $20 million in emergency aid to those most affected. But local officials estimate this year's farm losses attributable to the irrigation shutoff at $250 million, and neither the discussion of the aid package nor the other assurances did much to soothe the mood of a crowd that included men like Rob Crawford, 43, who sees the Endangered Species Act as a tool used by environmentalists and their allies in government for what he calls "rural cleansing."
"We're real people here, and we're being annihilated," Mr. Crawford said later, his voice choked with emotion as he drove a visitor in his pickup truck through his fields. In any other year, he said, they would have been rich and green with wheat, onions, barley, potatoes and peppermint. This year, with the irrigation ditches dry, the land is little more than cracked earth and weeds.
But as environmentalists like Andy Kerr of the Oregon Natural Resources Council point out, the region's lushness in what is really a high desert was always artificial, a product of the damming and diversion as part of the Klamath River project, which was completed in 1909. The federal government lured World War I and II veterans to the isolated region as homesteaders with promises of water in perpetuity. But the American taxpayer, Mr. Kerr contends, should not have to subsidize marginal farming forever.
Like most farmers in the country, environmentalists point out, farmers in the Klamath Basin benefit heavily from federal subsidies. A draft analysis being prepared for the Wilderness Society and based on figures from the federal Farm Service Agency put at $6.5 million the total direct farming subsidies last year in the area spanning the basin.
Along with representatives of other conservation groups, Mr. Kerr has drafted a plan that would have the federal government buy much of the basin's farmland and set it aside as a preserve, while paying premium prices to the farmers to assist in their transition.
Not surprising, though, that idea has offended many local people, who say they have little concern for the fate of the shortnose and lost-river varieties of suckerfish found in the Upper Klamath Lake. The suckerfish, listed as an endangered species since 1988, is also a perfect target for the conservatives who previously delighted in ridiculing the snail darter and the spotted owl, which at least had the advantage of being an appealing creature.
"If the government chooses to save the suckerfish, it must not make suckers of Klamath County," Senator Gordon Smith, Republican of Oregon, said at a recent rally here.
Already, in towns like Klamath Falls, population 17,000, and Tulelake, Calif., population 1,000, businesses have begun to close and school populations have plunged by as much as 30 percent, reflecting an exodus of farm workers. Meanwhile, ranchers have begun to try to sell their sheep and cows, and local officials say business is good only at places like community mental health clinics and a food bank that has successfully appealed to grocery store chains for donations of hundreds of thousands of pounds of food.
"It's a bleak picture," said Tony Giacomelli, 46, the owner of Jock's Supermarket in Tulelake.
In rejecting the appeal aimed at reviving the water flow, Judge Ann Aiken of United States district court in Eugene, Ore., not only upheld the action by the Bureau of Reclamation but also seemed to set a high barrier for any change, ruling that the agency had violated the Endangered Species Act last year by supplying inadequate flows to the threatened coho salmon, which are found below the dam in the Klamath River.
The act was supposed to have been reauthorized in 1990, but efforts to do so have been blocked, despite a widening overall perception among Republicans and Democrats that elements of the law may be flawed. Figures as opposed as Ms. Norton and her predecessor in the Clinton administration, Bruce Babbitt, have complained that federal agencies have been unable to accomplish their task of identifying what species to protect.
Environmentalists tend to see the law as a success story in need of only small revisions, while many developers, timber owners and their allies have called for drastic overhaul. The Bush administration has been guarded in its stance; while Ms. Norton has opposed provisions of the act in the past, she promised at her confirmation hearings to uphold the law as it stands, and said it would be up to Congress to propose any revisions.
The hearing here on Saturday of the House Resources Committee drew only Republican members of the panel, and they were uniformly critical of the government for turning off the irrigation water.
"If this action holds, it will spread across the West," one committee member, Representative Doc Hastings, Republican of Washington, warned to applause. 
Mr. Crawford, farmer and father of two, said he too wanted to see the act rewritten, to give a more equal weighting to what he called the often-sidelined interests of the "human species." But Mr. Crawford said he feared any changes would come too late for the Klamath Basin.
"We're the corpse," he said. "We're the casualty."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Suckerfish: suddenly a poster fish. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); Rob Crawford walking a dry irrigation ditch on his farm in Tulelake, Calif., with his wife, LeAnne, and daughter, Callie. His fields, too, are dry.; Mr. Crawford and outraged farmers like him see the Endangered Species Act as a tool for what he calls "rural cleansing." (Photographs by Shane Young for The New York Times)(pg. A20) Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: The Suckerfish"Two subspecies of suckerfish, the lost river and the shortnose, are found only in Oregon's Klamath Basin. STATUS: Placed on endangered list in 1988SIZE: 10-20 pounds, 2-3 feetLIFE SPAN: Can live up to 40 yearsDIET: Aquatic insects, small crustaceansNATURAL PREDATOR: BirdsHABITAT: Mostly found in Upper Klamath Lake(Source: U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service)(pg. A20) Map of Oregon highlighting Klamath Falls. (pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDANGERED SPECIES (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); FISHES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BIRDS (89%); DROUGHT (77%); IRRIGATION (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); LOBBYING (76%); BUDGETS (76%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (76%); FAMILY FARMS (75%); ANIMALS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%) AGRICULTURE; IRRIGATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUCKERFISH; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; FARMERS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF RECLAMATION (83%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (59%) BUREAU OF RECLAMATION; INTERIOR DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: WALLY HERGER (69%); GREG WALDEN (69%) JEHL, DOUGLAS; NORTON, GALE (SEC); WALDEN, GREG (REPR); HERGER, WALLY (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) KLAMATH FALLS (ORE); UNITED STATES; OREGON; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



519 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Federal Order Fuels a California Dispute 

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 19 

 BODY:
Most sides involved in California's energy crisis called the decision by federal regulators to place tighter limits on the wholesale price of power a positive if limited step, but its primary impact was to intensify what has become a bitter nationwide battle between Republicans and Democrats.
 There is fear that the partisan brawling will only get worse because of a poisonous confluence of factors. A heat wave in Northern California is pushing the state closer to what some have predicted will be regular summer blackouts, though none appear imminent. And rate increases of as much as 40 percent, approved by state regulators earlier this year, will kick in this month, which could make consumers even angrier. 
 In addition, the United States Senate tomorrow will begin hearings in Washington that are expected to be highly critical of President Bush's laissez-faire approach to California's power problems. Meanwhile, some power generators and Republicans have started running television advertisements here attacking Gov. Gray Davis's handling of the situation.
Monday's decision by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission fully satisfied no one. It did not place the firm caps on wholesale prices that consumer groups and the governor had demanded, but the new policy will institute the price restraints that President Bush had insisted he would reject.
Some Republicans hinted privately that they felt embarrassed by the policy turnaround because they had been defending the president's resistance to price controls. But most put the best face on the move and used it to attack Mr. Davis.
"This does, in fact, stabilize the market for a period of time," said Dave Cox, chairman of the Republican caucus in the State Assembly, "but if we don't get more generators on line, we'll just have the same problems again later." 
Mr. Cox said that the move should stop the governor from constantly blaming others for the crisis and that he supported the critical advertisements as political payback for Mr. Davis's own partisan blasts.
Reliant Energy, a generating company, has reportedly helped finance the advertising campaign, which accuses Mr. Davis of finger-pointing and lacking fresh ideas. Other generating companies were critical but sought to strike an even-handed tone.
Mr. Davis welcomed the price restraints but said the decision would allow prices to stay at historically high levels. He also said it would do little to force the generators to return billions of dollars he claims they have overcharged Californians in previous months.
At the Senate hearing scheduled for tomorrow, Mr. Davis will take the initiative, his advisers said, by demanding that the generators refund as much as $10 billion to California. They also said he would release a report that details all the steps he has taken to relieve the crisis, in contrast to what he has described as Republican inaction.
Consumer groups here were angered by the order, and some called it a sham. Nettie Hoge, who heads The Utility Reform Network, said prices would stall at what were still unjustly high levels. Ms. Hoge described as "an outrage" a 10 percent surcharge that the federal order permits the power generators to charge in California because of questions about the state's credit worthiness.
"This is the fifth-largest economy in the world," she said, "and there are no realistic concerns about payment."
Harvey Rosenfield, president of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights, said that a central weakness of the new federal order was that it relied on flexible price guidelines to be debated between opposing sides -- as opposed to hard caps -- and thus would only open the door to more political bickering.
"This is really getting kicked into the political realm more than ever now," Mr. Rosenfield said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ELECTION ISSUES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CONSUMER PROTECTION; WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; SHORTAGES; CONSUMER PROTECTION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (82%) FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JIM DAVIS (79%) STERNGOLD, JAMES; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA; WESTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



520 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 6; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: GOLF; 
At Buick, Synergy Is Spelled Woods

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
There is no better recipe for a golf tournament's success than the presence of Tiger Woods, who is playing at the Buick Classic in Harrison, N.Y., for the first time since 1997, when he finished in a tie for 43rd place.
 Woods causes tickets sales to accelerate, ratings to soar and hearts to leap -- all that would seem to matter to tournament economics. 
 The sellout of 22,000 tickets for Friday's second round represents a first for the 34-year-old event. And there are not many tickets left for the remaining days. 
Robert Dale Morgan, the vice president of championship golf for the PGA Tour, said that although the Tiger effect has not been measured, Woods's decision to play, as well as the presence of four of the other eight top players in the world, and a weeks-long local advertising campaign, contributed to the sales.
So if marketing Woods works so well, why is the PGA Tour trying to expand the appeal of the tournament, the biggest sports event in Westchester, into New York City?
In part, to guard against the years when he does not appear at the Westchester Country Club. Like any other tournament, the Buick needs to prove itself to golf fans every year, and one way to do that is to expand its appeal southward. 
And, Peter Mele, the tournament director, said additional parking, more shuttle buses from train stations and parking lots, and extra security were in the works before Woods agreed to play. 
"It's a simple goal," Morgan said. "To build a model where a television network and league can focus on an event, and have an impact on a particular market. The Buick is in New York. So are ABC and ESPN. Hopefully, what people will see is a bigger, better Buick Classic."
The Tour's planning began late last year -- months before Woods confirmed that he would play in the Buick Classic -- in meetings with ABC and ESPN officials.
"The notion was how do we take the assets of the Walt Disney Company and make them go to work for the Buick Classic," Ed Erhardt, the president of ESPN-ABC Sports Sales said. ESPN is carrying the tournament tomorrow and Friday, followed by ABC's coverage Saturday and Sunday.
This tournament represents Woods's broad appeal. He is a spokesman for Disney, whose networks are televising the tournament, and Buick, which sponsors it.
Among the elements of the PGA Tour-Disney campaign are: a 30-minute highlight show on Channel 7 Thursday and Friday nights; segments on ABC's "Good Morning America" (the program's Jack Ford will play in today's pro-am with Woods) and "The View," with Star Jones; on-site reports by ESPN's "SportsCenter" and forecasts by a Channel 7 weatherman; promotional events at the ESPN Zone in Times Square; the use of promotional e-mail messages from ESPN.com; and advertising on WABC-AM, Radio Disney, ABC Radio and WPLJ-FM. 
"New York has a significant amount of sports," Erhardt said, "and this is a way for ABC, ESPN and the PGA Tour to puncture the collective consciousness of the New York sports fan."
The campaign is designed to elevate the tournament's suburban image and raise the tournament's moderate profile to advertisers, fans and viewers. The Buick is not a major, like the Masters or the United States Open, so it not only has to break out of the clutter of New York sports and entertainment options, but out of the weekly golf mix.
And in an attempt to, at least temporarily, expand its political presence outside Harrison, the PGA Tour will hold a reception tonight, 26 miles away, at Gracie Mansion, its host Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who was to play with Woods today in the pro-am.
Giuliani is closely identified with attending Yankee games, but Morgan said that Giuliani made Gracie Mansion available because the PGA Tour and Buick Classic sponsored the Mayor's Fleet Week golf tournament last month in Queens. And even though the Buick Classic is not in one of the five boroughs, the mayor is nonetheless looking to attract golf tournaments to the city and to lure more tourists.
Still, the effort to expand the Buick Classic's appeal would not likely be as effective without Woods's appearance.
Yet the tournament cannot expect him in Harrison any time after this year's tournament.
Mele, the tournament director, said: "This year, we'll have people who haven't been here for a long time, or have never been here, largely because of Tiger. Hopefully, once they're here, they'll think it's a great place to come in the future, Tiger or not." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (92%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (91%); TICKET SALES (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); AMATEUR SPORTS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); SPORTS FANS (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (63%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%) GOLF; BUICK CLASSIC (GOLF) 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (83%); ESPN INC (69%); WESTCHESTER COUNTRY CLUB INC (55%); ABC SPORTS INC (52%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (69%); NAICS713910 GOLF COURSES & COUNTRY CLUBS (55%); SIC7997 MEMBERSHIP SPORTS & RECREATION CLUBS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (92%) SANDOMIR, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2001 



521 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: Designed to Pry: Building a Better Fishbowl 

BYLINE:  By JOHN LELAND 

 BODY:
AT a West Village deli last winter, Petra Barchi got an unexpected earful. She had been working 24-hour days in the neighborhood and needed a cup of coffee. The man behind the counter wanted to dish. Some big TV show, he confided, was destroying everything inside the building next door.
 Ms. Barchi, a production designer, held her tongue. If the deli man only knew. 
 In fact, Ms. Barchi was orchestrating many of the shenanigans next door, and destruction was not the word. In this quiet stretch of the Village, a crew of workers was transforming an antiques-filled loft into a kind of video playhouse, wired for round-the-clock surveillance of its occupants. In just a few weeks, the house would become the main set for MTV's "Real World," in which seven people, ages 18 to 23, submit their lives to the imperious curiosity of the television eye. 
"The Real World," now in its 10th season, is the music channel's high-design forerunner to reality shows like "Survivor" and "Big Brother." The set house, located in a different city and with a different cast each season, is a barometer of the domestic fantasies of the audience. 
Out went the French and Italian provincial furnishings. In came the Ikea pieces and hardware: 15 video cameras, 29 monitors, 142 blinding television lights, dozens of microphones and about a mile of cable. Out, also, went the locks in all the rooms, including the bathrooms. For the next four months, from late January to late May, the residents at 632 Hudson Street, near Horatio Street, could not sleep, dress, kiss, eat, brush or talk on the telephone without being recorded on videotape. The show goes on the air on July 3 and continues in weekly installments through November.
On an evening toward the end of shooting, Gretchen Warthen, one of the directors, sat in the control room staring at a bank of television sets. The control room, ordinarily a three-bedroom apartment below the main duplex, was a hive of activity, of crews coming and going. The duplex, by contrast, was a snooze. One cast member was asleep on a couch, another was reading; the rest were out. Two fish in the tank, Puffy and Eminem, had long since died and been removed. Ms. Warthen scanned a tableau of banal television images: a bedroom strewn with dirty laundry, an empty stairway, a littered roof deck. "Basically," she said, "they're leading their lives, and mine is pretty dull."
For the cast members, the loft was a big part of the "Real World" experience. Before moving to the loft, one of the women lived in $22-a-month public housing. In the first episode, when she arrives at the house, she says that she never wants to leave.
Most had lived in dorms, so were accustomed to roommates and limited privacy. When it came time to select bedrooms, one of the three men wanted to go co-ed. The four women put a stop to that. "I knew my mom would kill me," said Rachel, an 18-year-old freshman from the University of Missouri (an MTV publicist told cast members not to give their last names, to protect them from harassment, the publicist said). Rachel said she found the group, all of whom had survived a Darwinian audition process, an adjustment. "I'm not confrontational, not used to living with six strong personalities," she said. "This helped bring me out."
The home in "The Real World" functions like the eighth cast member, said Jonathan Murray, an executive producer. In the quick-cutting, heavily manipulated version of reality that Mr. Murray calls commercialized documentary, the apartment carries a lot of narrative weight, stimulating the action and framing it in pretty colors.
Unlike "Survivor" or "Big Brother," MTV's version of reality television allows the cast to move about town freely, accompanied by mobile film crews. All seven were given jobs at Arista Records. But the designers hoped the furnishings would keep them home, in a controlled recording environment -- decor as social engineering. 
"Everyone was here every night," said Mike, 20, who had lived with his father in Parma, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. "We played a lot of beer games." The producers had a strict policy against illegal drug use, but not against under-age drinking. "We ask the cast to obey the law and tell them that if they break it, we have the right to terminate their contract and participation in the show," Mr. Murray said. "But we're not the police and don't want to act as such." 
Mr. Murray and his business partner, Mary-Ellis Bunim, originally planned to rent raw space in Midtown and build a loft from scratch, but in the end chose the loft on Hudson Street. Its owner, Karen Lashinsky, had converted two floors of an old sausage factory into a three-bedroom, 3,200-square-foot loft in the style of a European villa. She often rented out her home for photo shoots or weddings for $3,000 to $5,000 a day.
There was only one problem. "It was a little 'old-lady style,' " said Ms. Barchi, who often designs movie sets. She began an overhaul with a budget of $50,000 to $60,000. Ms. Lashinsky's living room walls were finished with Structolite, a powdery plaster tinted unevenly with pigment. In natural light, it gives a warm, Tuscan glow. "But on video, under the lights, it looks like fungus," Ms. Barchi said.
Ms. Lashinsky would not allow them to paint over the treated walls, so the crew hung pleated silvery fabric, creating the effect of water cascading down from the ceilings. They bartered for art and furniture, including bright pieces from Ikea.
Past "Real World" sets, including the New York loft used in the first season, have been overstuffed playhouses, like Gymborees for postadolescents. Given the economic turndown, and the network's new, slightly more realistic approach to decor in "MTV's Cribs," the idea this year was to tone down the fantasy, Ms. Barchi said. 
"To make it less art-director-y," she said. She included a pool table in the kitchen, but few other toys. Even so, this fantasy is not everyone's idea of practical: the space used for the control room alone ordinarily rents for $8,500 a month.
Ms. Barchi conceived the loft along a water theme. A square walkway on the top floor overlooked the large, two-story living room. "I thought of that as the spiral of a shell, and the bedrooms as islands," she said. An aquarium in the living room, equipped with a Web cam, completed the theme. She added a padded room, a confessional, where cast members were expected to talk directly to the camera. 
On the walls she was allowed to paint, Ms. Barchi said, she chose reds and blues "three shades darker" than might be aesthetically most pleasing, because the bright lights tended to make them seem lighter on tape. The cast did not seem to notice. "I'm a big fan of the colors," Lori, 21, said. "They're very sophisticated, not playhouse-y."
As a visual pun on the home's network of bugs, Ms. Barchi mounted dozens of glass cases containing giant framed insects in brilliant colors, which the Evolution Store in SoHo donated in exchange for on-screen credit. She also decorated walls with plaster sculptures denoting the senses. These walls literally had ears -- eyes, noses and mouths.
Ms. Barchi also put lots of storage bins in the three bedrooms, in a quixotic effort to influence the cast's cleaning habits for television. Since the crew could not tell the residents to clean up their dirty laundry, she hoped the furniture would get the message across. It did not. 
But the bigger alteration involved the lights and surveillance equipment. The crew installed cameras and microphones in every room except the three bathrooms, including infrared cameras for night vision in the bedrooms. Victor Mignatti, one of the lead directors, described the show's strategy for covering any sexual activity. The crews with hand-held cameras will "shoot as far as a very passionate kiss, then discreetly leave the room," he said. In his two seasons, amorous cast members always ducked under the covers to evade the surveillance cameras. "Or they barricaded themselves in the bathroom," he said.
The crew also tapped the telephone and monitored the loft's Internet connection. Cast members were not allowed to carry cellphones or use pay phones, since these could not be tapped. For legal reasons, there were other odd house rules. The cast members could not wear any clothing or put up posters showing copyrighted images or logos; if they wanted to bring in any pictures of family members or friends, the people in the pictures had to sign releases. In the end, the cast did little to customize their home. "Everything fits," said Lori. "There's not really space to bring your own stuff." 
The cast knew that even small bubbles of privacy might collapse at any time. "As soon as they engage in conversation," Ms. Warthen said, "we don't care what they're wearing or not wearing, we'll shoot them." 
There were, however, limits to the surveillance. "There were no cameras by the closets, so we could change," said Kevin, 22. There were also no cameras in the bathrooms, though crews using hand-held cameras often followed cast members to the sinks. "You put your makeup on in the bathroom and they're there," Lori said. "That you never get used to. I don't want to clean my ears on TV."
As they ended their four months in an electronic fishbowl, the cast spoke of the show not as an experiment in voluntary surveillance but as a test of their personalities. "I wanted to be thrown out of my comfort zone," Lori said. "I knew I would learn a lot about myself." 
This is a peculiar reasoning: a faith in a highly artificial living arrangement and stylized video product to produce not just television but revelation. For 10 years, "The Real World" has shaped this inversion -- that people would behave most honestly on camera, and that television truths are the substantive ones. Lori and the others brought it to the house as an expectation.
The cast members have all returned to their past lives, each with a small stipend, described by Mr. Murray as enough to buy a used subcompact car. When the furnishings are auctioned online later this year, the producers will donate their half to the cast. 
Before she returned to her home in Chicago, Rachel measured the effects of four months of being watched. It was easy to get used to, she said. "Now," she said, "not having a mic and camera feels weird to me." Welcome to the real world. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: MADE FOR VOYEURISM -- A bank of 29 monitors keeps track of seven cast members in their Hudson Street duplex for the 10th installment of MTV's "Real World." Clockwise from upper left, sexual tension between Lori and Kevin; Nicole from Atlanta; the exhibitionist Mike; Malik; Coral; Rachel, the youngest; the women's blue bedroom; the "padded room," where cast members confess all. (Top row, MTV; bottom left, Toni Meneguzzo; bottom and center right, Paul Whicheloe for The New York Times)(pg. F1); BUGGED -- Clockwise from top left: cast members "relaxing" in the living room for promotional segments after regular filming was completed; a pool table in the kitchen; the duplex stairwell with a custom-made chandelier; the computer room, where even e-mail messages were monitored; one end of the living room, with a copy of Lucas Cranach's portrait of Adam (Eve hangs in a women's bedroom). Inset above left, the Hudson Street facade with no hints of interior doings.; INSIDE THE FOURTH WALL -- Giant framed bugs (note the television camera), a toilet seat made in the Bronx with pennies, a portrait of the duplex's owner, Karen Lashinsky; a bowl customized by a cast member. This season's furnishings were less outrageous than those used in past productions. (Photographs by Paul Whicheloe for The New York Times; inset far left, Meg Henson for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%) TELEVISION; INTERIOR DESIGN 

PERSON: LELAND, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: REAL WORLD (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



522 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Oil Pipeline to Turkey Backed by Chief of BP 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, June 20 

 BODY:
Sir John Browne, the chief executive of the BP Group, said today that the Baku-Ceyhan oil pipeline from Azerbaijan to a port on Turkey's southeastern Mediterranean coast would be built and operating by the end of 2004, the strongest public backing the project has yet received.
 Sir John said a detailed engineering study that began last month was not a further evaluation of the pipeline's economic viability, but a determination of what sort of line could be built within the project's budget, which he said was about $3 billion. 
 "You know where you've got to aim on price, and now we are thinking about what can be built for this amount," Sir John said in an interview. "We are proceeding with this project. It's commercial. It's environmentally sound." 
The much-debated pipeline was backed by the Clinton administration and adopted by the Bush administration as a way to diversify the transportation routes for the vast amounts of oil that have been discovered in the Caspian Sea region, and avoid having to transport all of it through Russia or Iran. But skeptics have said the route is too expensive and can never be built.
Last month, BP and seven other oil companies involved in the project approved spending $150 million on a detailed study of the route of the pipeline and engineering requirements. The study is expected to take about a year, with construction starting in mid-2002.
Sir John said oil fields being developed around Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, contain five billion barrels of high-quality crude oil, enough by itself to make economic sense out of the pipeline, which will pass through Georgia on its way to Turkey. And talks are under way to use the line to carry oil shipped down the Caspian Sea from the Tengiz and Kashagan fields in Kazakhstan, though that remains an uncertain prospect.
Initial estimates put the cost of the Baku-Ceyhan line at $2.4 billion, but Sir John confirmed that the design study completed last month came up with a price tag of about $3 billion. The project remains economically viable at the higher figure, he said. Other oil companies are expected to join the pipeline consortium soon.
BP has discovered a huge amount of natural gas in the Shah Deniz field in Azerbaijan, and it plans to build a gas pipeline that will parallel the oil line for most of its route to bring that gas to market in Turkey.
BP and Turkish government officials have also pushed the Baku-Ceyhan pipeline as an alternative to increasing the amount of oil-tanker traffic passing through the Bosporus, the 18-mile strait that divides this city of 12 million people.
Turkish maritime officials and environmental organizations are concerned that the already crowded waterway will become more dangerous later this year, when an increasing number of tankers are expected to come down from the Black Sea carrying oil originating in the Tengiz fields in Kazakhstan.
Sir John and other BP executives took a cruise on the Bosporus today, taking along representatives of several environmental organizations to highlight what the chief executive said was the company's commitment to be as environmentally friendly as possible.
The Shah Deniz gas field in Azerbaijan promises to be almost as important as the oil reserves in the development of Caspian-basin energy. Worldwide demand for gas is growing rapidly, especially for use as a relatively clean fuel for generating electricity.
A study by Cambridge Energy Research Associates, released here today, predicted that demand for liquefied natural gas would triple in the next 20 years, and that the gas would become a more important factor in world markets.
The report, released as part of an international energy conference sponsored by the American research company, said the liquefied gas market would expand because prices were falling, environmental concerns were making gas more attractive and the global energy market was expanding and becoming more competitive.
Most gas today is delivered through pipelines to specific markets. But liquefied gas is generally transported by ship on special tankers, offering greater flexibility to shift supplies between markets and reducing development costs, the report said.
Turkey, which imports about 98 percent of its energy, could become an important transit point for gas in coming years, if supplies from a nearly completed Russian pipeline, the planned BP pipeline and other projects end up giving the country a surplus of gas.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sir John Browne said the pipeline could be open by the end of 2004. (Adrian Wyld/Canadian Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (91%); ENGINEERING (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); BULK SHIPPING (58%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PIPELINES; FINANCES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: BP PLC 

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%)

PERSON: FRANTZ, DOUGLAS; BROWNE, JOHN (SIR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (73%) CASPIAN SEA (92%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (92%) TURKEY (97%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) BAKU (AZERBAIJAN); CEYHAN (TURKEY); AZERBAIJAN; TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



523 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: More Cold Water on Japanese Hopes 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 20 

 BODY:
Hopes that economic growth will soon revive in Japan are receding, with new statistics showing the nation's trade surplus contracting sharply and the government poised to conclude that the country will fall far short of its previous 1.7 percent growth forecast for the year. 
 A panel led by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has produced a draft report saying that growth will remain at a low level through 2002, in part because of deepening deflationary pressures caused by efforts to clean up the huge volume of nonperforming loans plaguing the banking system. 
The conclusions, expected to be formally released after the panel meets on Thursday, were reported by Bloomberg News and other news agencies today. 
 The trade figures for May, the 11th straight month in which Japan's surplus has deteriorated, showed slumping exports of technology goods while imports of energy rose.
Weak demand in Japan's main markets, the United States and Asian countries, was reflected in the export figures, the government said. The surplus shrank to 287.8 billion yen ($2.3 billion), seasonally adjusted, down more than half from April and nearly seven-eighths from May 2000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); DEFLATION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CREDIT 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (94%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



524 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Circuits; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S NEXT; 
Before and After the Sprawl

BYLINE:  By SHELLY FREIERMAN

 BODY:
The choice between old-fashioned city streets, where homes, businesses, parks and schools intertwine, and
the suburbs, where single-family tracts, malls and office complexes dominate, has faced American society for a good part of the 20th century.
The National Geographic Society takes a look at
suburban sprawl and the New Urbanism movement at its Web site, at:
 www.nationalgeographic.com/earthpulse/sprawl.
The site features a virtual walk down a street designed for a variety of uses. There is also a gallery of images comparing New Urbanist and suburban developments, showing the attributes and problems of each kind of community. SHELLY FREIERMAN

Browser
A selection of events and sites on the Web.

Sites

www.pbs.org/wnet/dancin/
This companion Web site to the PBS documentary "Who's Dancin' Now?" offers information on promoting education in the arts, a searchable database of programs across the country and a list of resources.

www.cdc.gov/ncipc/bike/
The home page of a coalition of private groups and public agencies called the National Bicycle Safety Network, with tips on safety and starting a local education program.

www.cmap.nypirg.org/census2000/SD_AD
_insidemaps.htm
A series of maps that show population gain and loss in the 2000 census for each of the state Senate and Assembly districts in New York offer clues to redistricting plans.

www.housesxartists.com
A Web site showcasing 12 houses designed by artists, including a four-story house with 10-foot-by-10-foot rooms, and another with glass walls for displaying artworks.

Events
TONIGHT, 9 p.m.
www.healthology.com
A Webcast about the treatment of multiple sclerosis and how the disease can affect the mind.

TOMORROW, 1 p.m.
www.washingtonpost.com/liveonline
A chat with Jeff Millar and Bill Hinds, the creators of the cartoon "Tank McNamara."

TUESDAY, 3 p.m.
chat.yahoo.com
A chat with Barbara Benham, a writer for Travel & Leisure magazine, about family vacations on working American farms.

GRAPHIC: Photo: STREET LIFE -- Interactive city tour. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REDISTRICTING (78%); WEB SITES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (74%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FAMILY (73%); GEOGRAPHY (72%); WEBCASTS (71%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (69%); WRITERS (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); CYCLING (67%); LEISURE TRAVEL (66%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (66%); POPULATION GROWTH (66%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (63%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (83%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



525 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Less Baseball Is More 

BYLINE:  By Rick Burton; Rick Burton is director of the James H. Warsaw Sports Marketing Center at the University of Oregon's Lundquist College of Business.

DATELINE: EUGENE, Ore. 

 BODY:
Why is the concept of cutting a few teams from Major League Baseball viewed as threatening and radical? That was the big question hanging over last week's owners' meeting. While he made no firm statement on the subject, Bud Selig, the baseball commissioner, reiterated that contraction of baseball is a viable option.
 It is doubtful that Selig will act anytime soon; the threat of lawsuits, the potential challenge to the league's sacred antitrust exemption and the possibility of negative news coverage are too daunting. But baseball has gotten fat and, like many companies, needs to take decisive action at some point. Protecting weak teams or dysfunctional franchises is bad for business. Cutting two teams and their combined 162 games might actually improve the business for everyone -- owners, players, networks and fans. 
 At the heart of baseball's economic problem is disparity in payrolls. Teams like the Boston Red Sox, the Los Angeles Dodgers and the New York Yankees, with player payrolls of as much as $110 million a season, have an unfair advantage over teams like the Montreal Expos, the Oakland Athletics and the Minnesota Twins, with payrolls less than $35 million. While there can be exceptions, pitting poorer teams against richer ones generally makes for games that are not very competitive and therefore not interesting enough to attract large numbers of fans. 
Purists suggest that failing teams are simply poorly run and that if they moved to other, more baseball-friendly cities, they might attract bigger audiences. But if the teams aren't competitive, that interest would be temporary. And to be competitive in player salaries, a baseball owner needs not only ticket sales but a local television market that can bring in revenue. There are no major untapped television markets that can generate enough money to justify the purchase price of a team and the enormous costs of building a new stadium.
Even in Portland, Ore., with the Oregon State Legislature willing to consider providing $150 million in subsidies to lure a team, the math simply doesn't work. To make a failing relocated team competitive, a new owner in Portland would have to raise at least $150 million to pay part of the stadium costs, in addition to the purchase price for the team (at least $100 million) plus $25 million to $50 million a year in player salaries. With just 81 home games in a 40,000-seat stadium -- in a city with no historic connection to the team and a small media market -- the prognosis is gloomy.
At best, moving weak teams will create temporary fans. Without salary caps or real revenue sharing like that in the National Football League, small-market teams will have a never-ending struggle. Contraction may be the only cure for a sport where lack of parity is making failure on the field and at the gate all too likely. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (74%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (71%); LITIGATION (71%); TICKET SALES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (62%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (62%) BASEBALL; FINANCES; TELEVISION 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); BOSTON RED SOX (56%); NEW YORK YANKEES (56%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (56%); MINNESOTA TWINS (55%); MONTREAL EXPOS (55%); OAKLAND A'S (55%)

PERSON: BURTON, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); EUGENE, OR, USA (78%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (55%) OREGON, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



526 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 YEN DROPS. The yen fell after Japan posted its smallest trade surplus in eight years, indicating that Asia and the United States are buying fewer Japanese products. In New York, the dollar settled at 123.74 yen, up from 123.04.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the dollar, since December 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (82%) CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (93%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (59%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (55%) JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



527 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Forecast Index Rises the Most Since Late '99 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20 

 BODY:
A crucial forecasting gauge for the economy had its biggest increase in almost a year and a half in May, but economic growth will continue to be slow for the next few months, a private research firm said today.
 The Conference Board said its index of leading economic indicators rose 0.5 percent in May -- the biggest gain since an identical 0.5 percent rise in December 1999 -- after rising 0.1 percent in April. 
It was also the third increase for the index in the last six months. 
 Wall Street economists had expected a rise of 0.2 percent.
"Latest readings suggest the U.S. economy may be poised for some recovery," said Ken Goldstein, a Conference Board economist.
"Continued, though modest, strength in services and some limited recovery in manufacturing is a combination likely to deliver limited job, income and gross domestic product growth over the next few months, barring any sudden economic shock," he added.
The Conference Board, based in New York, said the coincident index, a barometer of current economic trends, was unchanged in May after a 0.1 percent drop in April.
The lagging index, which measures past trends in the economy, fell 0.2 percent in May after a 0.1 percent decrease the previous month.
"Taken together, the three composite indexes and their components suggest that the period of slow growth in the U.S. economy will continue in the next few months," the board said.
Fred Breimyer, senior vice president with the State Street Corporation in Boston, called the report a "dichotomy."
"I'm not sure that the data are reliable because the elements that are most positive are financial," he said. "The ones I treat as the best guides are the ones that relate to real production, real demand."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leading Indicators"Index of 10 indicators designed to "lead" or predict overall economic activity; 1996 = 100. Monthly Change May: +0.5%April: +0.1March: -0.2 (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS 

COMPANY: STATE STREET CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD 

TICKER: STT (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%) SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



528 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Technology Issues Rise; Market's Direction Seems Unclear

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
A late rally in technology issues led the stock market higher yesterday, a choppy session in which investors pondered conflicting signals about the prospects for corporate earnings.
 Analysts said no strong single factor seemed to be driving overall market activity, as the Dow Jones industrials rose more than 100 points in early trading, then reversed course and bounced in and out of negative territory before closing higher. 
 "A lot of people believe that you 'sell them in May, and stay away,' " said Ned Collins, head trader at Daiwa Securities America, "particularly this year because of all the question marks that are in the air. A lot of people are wondering when and where the earnings are going to come from. We have a lot of churning to go through, a lot of backing and filling." 
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 50.66 points, or 0.48 percent, to close at 10,647.33. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 10.56 points, or 0.87 percent, to 1,223.14. 
The Nasdaq composite, a technology stock gauge, rose 38.58 points, or 1.94 percent, to 2,031.24, with market breadth narrowly positive.
Investors' nervousness about earnings was reinforced after Tellabs, a telecommunications equipment maker, joined the growing list of companies warning of disappointing financial results, as it cut its sales forecast by more than a third and said it would only break even in the quarter. Shares of Tellabs plunged $5.16, to $16.04.
Analysts said some investors' hopes for a turnaround were buoyed after Gerald M. Levin, chief executive of AOL Time Warner, told Reuters that the company's advertising revenue was stabilizing and that it was likely to meet its 2001 financial forecast. AOL gained $2.96, to $52.80. 
"This isn't good news in the classic good news sense," said Michelle R. Clayman, chief investment officer at New Amsterdam Partners. "But it seems to imply that the rate of decline is either slowing or has stopped."
Bear Stearns provided a hopeful sign after it reported second-quarter operating earnings that exceeded Wall Street estimates. Its shares rose $1.77, to $55.13.
General Electric helped lead the Dow and the S.& P. 500 higher, gaining $1.90, to $50.77, after the European Commission was said to have drafted a recommendation that G.E.'s bid for Honeywell International not be approved. G.E.'s rise offset a drop in Honeywell shares, which fell $1.46, to $37.04.
Tobacco stocks rose as investors reacted to a move by the Justice Department to try to settle a multibillion-dollar civil suit filed against the industry in 1999 under the Clinton administration. The suit contends that the tobacco companies withheld information about the dangers of smoking. Shares of Philip Morris rose $1.90, to $46.50; R. J. Reynolds climbed $2.48, to $54.81; and the American depository receipts of British American Tobacco were up 48 cents, to $15.58. --------------------

Fed Chief Buoys Treasuries
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices rose yesterday after the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, said higher labor costs were not accelerating inflation, suggesting that the central bank had leeway to cut interest rates further.
Ken Anderson of Evergreen Asset Management in White Plains said, "There's a lot more wood to chop to make sure the economy doesn't sink," adding that the Fed had "room to lower rates by 50 basis points next week, and again in August."
The 10-year Treasury note rose 7/32 yesterday, to a price of 98 15/32 . The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.20 percent from 5.23 percent on Tuesday. The 30-year Treasury bond rose 12/32 , to 95 30/32 . Its yield fell to 5.66 percent from 5.69 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since February. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (87%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); TOBACCO MFG (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%); SMOKING (60%); APPROVALS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: AOL INC (81%); TELLABS OY (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (81%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); HON (NYSE) (51%); HON (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (51%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



529 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Alternative-Fuel Program Fails to Reach Its Goals
A report by the Bush administration recommends continuing federal incentives for ethanol-fueled vehicles. But it does so despite finding that the program has failed to live up to both of its goals: reducing gasoline consumption and increasing the use of alternative fuels.
 By building dual-fuel vehicles, automakers receive credits that allow them to lower the average gas mileage of all other vehicles in their fleets. That has allowed them to sell more gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles. Page A1. 

Chairman of Disney Studios to Quit
Peter Schneider, the chairman of Walt Disney Studios, announced unexpectedly that he would leave the company to set up a new Broadway production company. The move comes less than a month after the hugely hyped premiere of Disney's "Pearl Harbor," which has failed to be the summer-dominating hit that some had predicted. C3.

I.R.S. Guide Focuses on Consultants
The Internal Revenue Service is teaching its auditors how to focus on tax cheating by self-styled business consultants and by corporations that use former employees as consultants to avoid withholding taxes. C5.

Technology Rally Helps Lift Stocks
A late rally in technology issues led the stock market higher. The Nasdaq composite index rose 38.58 points, or 1.9 percent, to 2,031.24. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 50.66 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,647.33. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 10.56 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,223.14. C7.

U.S. Holds Lead in Supercomputers
The twice-annual ranking of the world's fastest 500 computers, being issued today, shows that the United States still has a significant lead in building powerful supercomputers. But the list is also an indication that, increasingly, the world of supercomputing is no longer at the cutting edge of computing technology. C4.

Union Members Protest at Verizon
Union protesters rallied at Verizon's headquarters, contending the company was violating a contract in which it agreed not to fight organizing drives at nonunion subsidiaries. C4.

Bear Stearns Surpasses Estimates
Bear Stearns, one of Wall Street's leading firms, said that its second-quarter net income rose 43 percent, surpassing expectations, as a strong bond market helped limit the damage from its investment banking and stock trading. Revenue rose to $1.37 billion from $1.32 billion despite the weak market. Shares of Bear Stearns rose $1.77, to $55.13. C5.

Coke to Help Fight AIDS in Africa
Coca-Cola, Africa's biggest employer if affiliates are counted, says it will use its resources to combat AIDS on the continent. A8.

Leading Indicators Climb 0.5%
The Conference Board's index of leading economic indicators rose 0.5 percent in May after rising 0.1 percent in April. C3.

Auto Insurers May Leave New Jersey
Companies insuring almost a third of New Jersey's drivers are considering withdrawing from the state, escalating the battle over auto insurance that continues to be one of the most charged issues in the state. B1.

One Less Problem in Productivity
New research from economists suggests that one potential problem with statistics on productivity -- the measurement of hours worked -- is less of a problem than previously thought. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,647.33 up 50.66Nasdaq composite -- 2,031.24 up 38.5810-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.20% down 0.03The euro -- $0.8548 up 0.0007The dollar -- 123.74 up 0.70 Graph: "TODAY" shows balance of trade figures from October 2000-March 2001.April figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -$31.0 billion Graph shows Bear Stearns share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (91%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ALCOHOLS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ETHANOL (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GASOLINE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); BONDS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); CONSUMPTION (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); THEATER (69%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (68%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (68%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); TAX FRAUD (67%); BOND MARKETS (65%); AIDS & HIV (62%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (60%); INVESTMENT BANKING (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (92%); WALT DISNEY CO (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%); COCA-COLA CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (56%); VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%); KO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



530 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Niagara Falls and Buffalo Proposed as Casino Sites 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 20 

 BODY:
The Pataki administration and the Seneca Indian Nation have struck a deal to build two Las Vegas-style casinos in Buffalo and Niagara Falls, and possibly a third elsewhere in western New York, the governor said in a surprise announcement late this afternoon.
 The casino plan requires legislative approval under a recent state court ruling. Tonight, the two men who control the State Legislature said that they had not seen any of the details of the proposal, but neither voiced any opposition to the concept. Even the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, who has traditionally opposed gambling, seemed flexible on the notion of a casino in western New York. His spokesman, John McArdle, called him a "realist." 
 The deal would give the Seneca Nation control of the Niagara Falls Convention Center, a 153,000-square-foot building that is in dire need of an uplift, for $1 a year. If the deal goes forward, the casino could open as soon as next spring.
A site has not yet been selected for the Buffalo casino, but there have been discussions about renovating a portion of a downtown office building. The deal announced today would also allow the Indians to open a third casino in the future on existing reservation land, which stretches across three counties in western New York.
The proposed casinos could provide a boost to an economically depressed area, and create competition for the first time for the two privately operated casinos on the Canadian side of the Niagara River. Gov. George E. Pataki today seized on that fact to rally support for his proposal. "They have had a casino that has generated the jobs and the revenue and has attracted private investment," he said at a late-afternoon news conference in Niagara Falls, with his back to the skyline of Niagara Falls, Ontario. "There is no reason why on our side of the falls, we can't surpass that and have more investment than they had on the other side."
Mr. Pataki's aides told reporters about the news conference shortly before he headed to Niagara Falls. Several lawmakers said the announcement caught them by surprise.
"I'm shocked that this agreement has been negotiated in secrecy," said Assemblyman Sam Hoyt, a Democrat from Buffalo who opposes the proposed casino. He does not accept the economic-boon argument, and warns about the social ills gambling can bring.
"It catches me off guard. It catches most of my colleagues off guard," Mr. Hoyt said of the announcement. I'm shocked that there will be no public input whatsoever on such a volatile issue."
The agreement, which must also be approved in a referendum among the Seneca Nation and obtain federal approval, would be valid for 14 years, with a seven-year renewal option. The governor's office did not respond to calls tonight requesting details of the proposal. But Sheldon Silver, the Assembly leader, said the governor had told him the casinos would yield roughly $115 million a year for the state, 20 percent of which would go to local governments.
The casino deal comes against the backdrop of an ongoing land-claim dispute between the state and the Seneca Indian Nation. The Indians have sought to gain control of some additional territory, including Grand Island, a town of 19,000 between Buffalo and Niagara Falls. The land claims have yet to be settled.
"This has been a long and difficult process for both parties," the Seneca Nation president, Cyrus M. Schindler, said at the news conference. "This agreement should be a tremendous economic boost for the Seneca Nation and the entire region of western New York."
Governor Pataki has long favored the development of Indian casinos to revive economically depressed areas. In the past, he had contended that his administration could unilaterally allow gambling by Indian tribes; he signed a pact with the St. Regis Mohawk Indians to build a $500 million casino in the Catskills. Two months ago, though, the governor was overruled by a State Supreme Court justice, who declared that Mr. Pataki had violated the New York State Constitution by signing gambling compacts before securing legislative approval.
On this deal, though, securing such approval does not seem to face huge hurdles.
Mr. Bruno, the Senate majority leader has lately come around to the idea of a casino in western New York. Tonight, his spokesman, Mr. McArdle, said Mr. Bruno understands that a casino could bring "a huge boost" to the economically depressed downtowns of Niagara Falls and Buffalo. "He's recognized that that area in particular has not done as well as other areas in the state," Mr. McArdle said.
Meanwhile, Mr. Silver, the Assembly speaker, who has generally endorsed Indian casino as an economic-development tool, said tonight that he supports the concept, but has yet to see the details of the governor's plan. "I have been supportive in the past of casinos in Niagara Falls and the city of Buffalo," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GAMING (90%); CASINOS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); REFERENDUMS (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%) GAMBLING; CASINOS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; SENECA NATION OF INDIANS 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%) BUFFALO (NY); NIAGARA FALLS (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



531 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Britain: Interest Rates 

BYLINE:  By Alan Cowell (NYT) 

 BODY:
 British interest rates are likely to remain steady or rise after the Bank of England's monetary policy committee voted 8-to-1 to keep the benchmark rate at 5.25 percent this month. After three rate cuts earlier in the year, largely in response to the economic downturn in the United States, minutes from the bank's monthly meetings on June 5 and 6 said that the United States slowdown had so far been less severe than expected and that a further cut in British rates would heighten inflationary pressures. Since the bank's deliberations, data have shown British wages, prices, home-buying and consumer demand are all rising.
 Alan Cowell (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); TRENDS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); INFLATION (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (85%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF ENGLAND 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



532 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Ethanol Plan Fails to Reduce Use of Gasoline 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER with DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 20 

 BODY:
A report prepared for Congress by the Bush administration recommends continuing federal incentives for ethanol-fueled vehicles. But it does so despite finding that the program has failed to live up to either of its goals: reducing gasoline consumption and substantially increasing the use of alternative fuels.
 Virtually no vehicles built to run on either ethanol or gasoline are actually using ethanol, partly because fewer than 1 in 1,000 of the nation's service stations sell it, according to the report. Yet by manufacturing the dual-fuel vehicles, automakers receive credits that allow them to lower the average gas mileage of the rest of their fleets. This has allowed them to sell more gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles. 
 Consequently, the report says, American gasoline consumption increased by 473 million gallons last year, or 0.3 percent. The extra gas consumption will rise steeply in the coming years, as more vehicles are produced under the law, the report warns. 
Because burning gasoline produces large quantities of carbon dioxide, a gas linked to global warming, the 1988 law promoting ethanol use actually increased American emissions of global-warming gases by 1.46 million metric tons last year, the report says. This meant that the rule accounted for about a tenth of the increased output of such gases by American vehicles, which have become the fastest-growing source of global-warming gases.
Rather than halt the program, the report recommends that more be done to increase the amount of ethanol actually burned by the dual-fuel vehicles, although it offers few specifics on how to accomplish this.
The Transportation Department declined to comment on the report, saying that it was still in draft form. A transportation official said that the text of the report had already been approved by the Office of Management and Budget. But some wording in the report might be changed before Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta sends it to Congress, the official said.
Mr. Mineta is traveling in Europe this week on business, so any action will not come until next week at the earliest, the official added.
The Transportation Department was supposed to report to Congress by September 2000, on the effectiveness of the law, which was intended to reduce American dependence on imported oil and encourage the use of alternative fuels like ethanol, a type of alcohol commonly made from corn. Caught between lobbying by corn farmers and automakers who favor the law and environmentalists who oppose it, the Clinton administration did not meet the deadline and left the issue to the Bush administration. A person critical of the ethanol law provided a copy of the report to The New York Times.
The Bush administration's conclusion represents the second big victory this month for the ethanol lobby, a powerful group of interests ranging from the National Corn Growers Association to ethanol distillers like Archer Daniels Midland. The administration decided last week to deny California's request for a waiver of regulations requiring that ethanol be used to produce clean-burning gasoline instead of other additives that are less expensive.
The ethanol program has bipartisan backing among corn state officials. Marlys Popma, the executive director of the Republican Party of Iowa, said that supporting the broader use of ethanol was crucial to the electoral success of any presidential candidate seeking votes in the state's caucus every four years, the first of each presidential campaign. "Ethanol is just hugely important in Iowa because it drives up the cost of corn," she said.
And according to the state's Democratic governor, Tom Vilsack, ethanol "is a lifeline, and it is a real ray of hope to family farmers that creates not only economic opportunity but preserves a way of life that's important to preserve."
Environmentalists are less kind to ethanol, and particularly the current incentive program for automakers. "The Bush administration is proposing to extend at one fell swoop a loophole that increases our oil addiction, costs consumers billions of dollars a year, manipulates the farmers and increases global warming pollution," said Daniel Becker, the energy policy director of the Sierra Club.
Mr. Becker argued that the ethanol program was costly for consumers. The report projects that continuing the program will increase gasoline consumption by nine billion gallons from 2005 to 2008. At $1.70 a gallon, a typical price now, that works out to $15.3 billion, or nearly $4 billion a year, in extra gasoline costs, Mr. Becker said.
The report also noted that few consumers even know when they have bought a vehicle with the $200 sensor for burning ethanol, for which the automakers do not charge extra.
General Motors, Ford Motor and the Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler have made 1.2 million dual-fuel vehicles, almost all of which are designed to burn either ethanol or gasoline. These include most Chrysler minivans and some Chevrolet S-10 pickups, Ford Taurus sedans and Ford Windstar minivans.
This has allowed the automakers to reduce the average fuel economy of all vehicles they sell by five-tenths to nine-tenths of a mile per gallon. Foreign automakers have not made use of the law with the exception of Isuzu, which has begun selling some dual-fuel Isuzu Hombre pickup trucks made for it by General Motors, which owns 49 percent of Isuzu.
The administration's conclusions come just after President Bush faced heavy criticism in Europe for not doing enough on global warming.
Last month, Mr. Bush said he would wait for a fuel-economy report in July by the National Academy of Sciences before deciding what to do about the gas mileage of automobiles. But Vice President Dick Cheney has endorsed the expanded use of ethanol.
Fuel economy has become increasingly controversial in Washington. The House Appropriations Committee approved a transportation bill today that for the first time in six years does not include a prohibition on any toughening of fuel-economy standards for sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickup trucks.
The Republican majority in Congress had included such a provision since 1995 to prevent the Clinton administration from tightening these standards. But auto industry lobbyists said earlier this year that they did not need such a provision again this year because they trusted the Bush administration not to make any changes that would be technologically difficult to meet.
The recommendations of the ethanol report will form the basis for a formal issuance of regulations by the Transportation Department later this year, after public comment is solicited.
"Based on the results of this analysis, our preliminary conclusion is that continuation of the program should consider other actions that could improve the program and its chances of success," the report says. Without new regulations, the federal incentives would expire with the 2004 model year.
All gasoline-powered vehicles can run on a mixture of 10 percent ethanol and 90 percent gasoline, and this mixture is commonly sold in the Midwest. The dual-fuel vehicles are designed to run on nearly pure ethanol, which is 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline, and often marketed as E85. The administration report said only 101 of the 176,000 service stations in the United States sell nearly pure ethanol.
Most of these service stations are in the Midwest; there is not a single one on the West Coast and there are only two on the East Coast, one in Virginia and one in South Carolina, according to the National Ethanol Vehicle Coalition, which is backed by corn growers. Oil companies dislike ethanol because it cannot be transported in most pipelines, requiring use of costlier rail cars or tanker trucks.
"I'd be the first to admit that 99.5 percent of E85 vehicles don't use E85," said Phil Lampert, the coalition's executive director "We've offered to set up stations, and we'll pay 100 percent of the cost to install E85 pumps, and they refuse."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ethanol is not widely available except in the Midwest, where it has been championed by politicians and lobbyists for corn farmers and processors. David Foster pumps ethanol at a gas station in Kearney, Neb. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) Chart: "Addicted to Gasoline"Automakers are building increasing numbers of vehicles that burn either gasoline or nearly pure ethanol, a type of alcohol. By doing so, they are allowed to meet lower fuel-economy standards for the rest of the vehicles they sell. But the dual-fuel vehicles almost always burn gasoline because little ethanol is available. So instead of lowering gasoline consumption, the dual-fuel vehicle policy has been helping to drive gasoline consumption up. Graph shows NUMBER OF DUAL-FUEL VEHICLES MADE* and the YEAR-TO-YEAR CHANGE IN CONSUMPTION BECAUSE OF ETHANOL POLICY for vehicles from 1996-2000. All figures are for model years.*Includes a small number of vehicles that can burn gasoline and a fuel otherthan ethanol, like compressed natural gas.+Includes tiny quantities of compressed natural gas. (Source: Transportation Department report)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (93%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (91%); ALCOHOLS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); LOBBYING (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); BUDGETS (75%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); APPROVALS (64%); CORN FARMING (64%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (63%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ETHANOL; AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (84%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (84%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (84%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (84%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (84%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (84%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (84%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (84%)

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BARBOZA, DAVID; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



533 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Major Insurers May Pull Out Of New Jersey 

BYLINE:  By IVER PETERSON with JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 20 

 BODY:
Companies insuring almost a third of New Jersey's drivers are considering withdrawing from the state, escalating the battle over auto insurance, which continues to be one of the most charged issues in a state with the highest premiums in the country.
 American International Insurance Company of New Jersey, a subsidiary of the giant American International Group, said today that it had filed documents requesting approval to close shop in New Jersey, where the company insures about 4 percent of the 4.8 million vehicles in the state. 
 The news of the company's request came a week after the State Farm Indemnity Company, New Jersey's largest insurer of drivers, said that it planned to withdraw from the auto insurance business in the state, where it insures 17 percent of the market. 
Meanwhile, the Liberty Mutual Group, with 11 percent of the state's business, said through a spokesman today that it, too, was looking toward the exits. 
"It is nearly impossible for an insurance company to make money in New Jersey," said Glenn Greenberg, a Liberty Mutual spokesman, "and no company, understandably, wants to continue in a market where a financial loss is guaranteed. We are considering all our options."
The companies maintained that they were hampered by regulatory issues, inadequate rates and the slow pace of progress on cost-saving measures enacted in 1998.
State officials were quick to point out that all three insurers have applications for hefty price increases pending before state regulators. A spokesman for the State Department of Banking and Insurance suggested that the companies were more interested in getting rate increases than in leaving the state. 
"We find it somewhat puzzling that such an announcement has been made while substantial rate increase requests are pending," said Peter Hartt, the spokesman. "I don't want to characterize their motivations and I don't want to characterize their strategy, not at this stage, anyway. But it is clear that at several times over the past few decades when significant reforms have been enacted, companies have threatened to withdraw and ended up staying."
In fact, American International told its employees in a June 15 memorandum that it could change its mind, "should circumstances change." And Mr. Greenberg of Liberty Mutual said his company's primary focus was not on leaving but "on getting a rate increase."
Both sides acknowledged that it would take years to disengage a company from its insurance business in the state, and that drivers would not face the prospect of finding new coverage anytime soon. But if the companies make good on their plans to leave, insurance analysts said, the reduced competition among the remaining insurers could mean higher costs to drivers.
In the meantime, the ferment is certain to make the issue an explosive one in a year in which the governor's office is up for grabs. 
New Jersey passed a major auto insurance law change in 1998 that was intended to reduce insurers' costs by reducing fraud and ending medical price gouging, among other things. The new law also forced all insurers to adopt across-the-board price cuts of 15 percent, cuts that many insurers are now trying to offset with requested price increases.
New Jersey's Republican governor and legislative majorities have treated the 1998 insurance overhaul as a major advance for the state's burdened drivers, while Democrats insist that they should get credit for forcing the issue.
Rae Hutton, a spokeswoman for Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco, said, "State Farm and A.I.G. are worried about their bottom lines, but our bottom line is the money motorists have to pay for insurance, and we think it should be lower."
Like Mr. Hartt at the Department of Banking and Insurance, Ms. Hutton maintained that auto insurers had often threatened to leave New Jersey but then reversed themselves.
A spokesman for James E. McGreevey, the Democratic candidate for governor, said it was the Republicans' fault. "This is further evidence that the Trenton administration has completely failed to make any meaningful reforms of the auto insurance system," said Richard McGrath, Mr. McGreevey's campaign manager. "Jim McGreevey has a series of reforms he believes will most importantly reduce rates for motorists but would also make New Jersey a more attractive market than it is to auto insurers."
Like Mr. McGreevey, the insurers maintain that the state has not carried through all of the changes in the 1998 act, leaving the companies enmeshed in regulations and a slow-moving bureaucracy, and unable to recoup the 15 percent mandatory rate cuts through savings.
"We've got a problem here," said John Tiene, president of the Insurance Council of New Jersey, an industry trade group. "If you don't have enough money coming in to pay the claims going out, you can't operate. Rates are a part of the discussion. But the broader issue is the ability to operate efficiently. In New Jersey, the state manages everything from premium rates to claims handling to how much profits companies can earn."
Mr. Tiene said the state's insurers appealed to Governor DiFrancesco last week after State Farm announced that it was withdrawing. "He's got to ensure that companies have the appropriate rates to conduct business," Mr. Tiene said.
Mr. Hartt of the state insurance department maintained today that the most important elements of the insurance overhaul, those aimed at reducing insurers' costs, were in place. 
"The fact is that every single cost-containment provision of the act has been implemented," Mr. Hartt said. He said changes that the insurers wanted, like updating the geographic regions that help determine insurance rates, were under way and were not part of the bill, for example.
But Mr. Tiene said political rather than economic considerations were shaping the process.
"No one wants to be the one to allow an insurance company to increase their rates," he said. "So the insurance department delays as long as possible. Then they deny the request for an increase and you have to go to an administrative court. The process can take years."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "ADDING IT UP: Who Insures New Jersey Drivers"State Farm -- 17%Allstate -- 15%N.J. Manufacturers -- 13%Liberty Mutual -- 11%Prudential -- 7%American International -- 4%Others -- 33% (Source: New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (93%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (91%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%) AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: LIBERTY MUTUAL GROUP INC (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE (72%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); STATE FARM INDEMNITY CO (71%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBERTY MUTUAL GROUP; AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP; STATE FARM INSURANCE COS 

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (72%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



534 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 54 words

HEADLINE: Corrections 

 BODY:
 Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about the slowdown in the economy reaching New York City's job market misstated the occupation of Paul A. Bernard, who suggested that things would only get worse. Mr. Bernard, who advises companies on executive development and layoffs, is a consultant, not an economist. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (85%); LAYOFFS (84%) LABOR; CORRECTION STORIES; HIRING AND PROMOTION; UNEMPLOYMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



535 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing On The Waterfront, A Boom 

BYLINE:  By Tara Bahrampour (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Despite a sluggish national and international economy, cargo volumes in the Port of New York and New Jersey increased by more than 13 percent in the first quarter of this year, the Port Authority announced yesterday. According to United States Census Bureau data, total cargo imports and exports rose to 4,866,000 metric tons this year from 4,288,000 metric tons during the same period last year. The total value of the cargo was estimated at $22 billion. Neil D. Levin, the Port Authority's executive director, said that increased trade with Asia helped the port flourish during the economic slowdown.
 Tara Bahrampour (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); TRENDS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (86%); CENSUS (84%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (58%) PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY 

PERSON: BAHRAMPOUR, TARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



536 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Big Contract To Embraer From Brazil 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER L. RICH 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, June 20 

 BODY:
Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica, or Embraer, said today that it had won a contract to provide as many as 100 large regional jets to the Brazilian airline TAM Lineas Aereas.
 Embraer announced the deal, worth $750 million to $3 billion, at the Paris Air Show, which continues through the end of the week. Deliveries of the planes are to begin in 2004. 
 In a bid to repeat the success of its line of smaller 35- and 50-seat regional jets, Embraer invested about $1 billion over the last two years to develop the 70-seat ERJ-170 and the 98- to 108-seat ERJ-190. But the economic slowdown in the United States, where a majority of regional air travel occurs, had led analysts to suggest that the larger planes might be hard to sell.
They also worried that sales would be hurt by contractual restrictions that prevent many American pilots from flying larger jets.
Since announcing the new line of planes at the 1999 Paris Air Show, Embraer has sold only 30 ERJ-190's and 90 ERJ-170's, with a large portion ordered by CrossAir of Switzerland at that year's show. Embraer has since issued options for 205 more of the planes.
While the United States market might be limited at least for now, said Rodrigo Pereira, an analyst for Banco Pactual, an investment bank based in Rio de Janeiro, "there is a big market in Europe, hich will make up for some of the lack of demand in the U.S."
Indeed, Embraer's main competitor, Bombardier of Canada, which has also developed a series of larger regional planes in the last few years, announced this week that it had sold 50 of its 70- and 86-seat jets to the German leasing company Deutsche Structured Finance, a unit of DePfa Bank A.G., for $1.5 billion.
And another competitor in the regional jet market, the Fairchild Dornier Corporation, owned by Clayton, Dubilier & Rice and Allianz Capital Partners, sold eight of its new 70-seat aircraft this week to CSA Czech airlines for $230 million.
Embraer recently opened an office in China to make headway into what is expected to be the next big airline market.
At the 1999 air show, Embraer beat all expectations, selling or optioning 281 smaller jets for more than $6 billion. Since then, the company has increased its order log to $11 billion in firm commitments and another $12.7 billion in options, based on figures from the end of the first quarter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); CONTRACT AWARDS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); LEASING INDUSTRY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (54%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: EMBRAER SA (98%); FAIRCHILD DORNIER CORP (64%); DEUTSCHE PFANDBRIEFBANK AG (64%); BOMBARDIER INC (54%); ALLIANZ SE (53%); CLAYTON DUBILIER & RICE INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE AERONAUTICA; TAM LINEAS AEREAS 

TICKER: ERJ (NYSE) (98%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (98%); DPFH (FRA) (64%); BBD.A (TSX) (54%); ALV (FRA) (53%); ALV (BIT) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (98%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (64%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%) SIC3721 AIRCRAFT; 

PERSON: RICH, JENNIFER L 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%) BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (53%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



537 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Wieden Executive Leaving Agency

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA WINTERS LAURO 

 BODY:
Matthew Seiler, managing director at the New York office of Wieden & Kennedy, is leaving after only 13 months. A former top Wieden & Kennedy executive was named to replace him. 
 Wieden & Kennedy, based in Portland, Ore., said yesterday that Mr. Seiler was resigning, effective immediately, because of what were termed "philosophical differences." 
 In a telephone interview, Mr. Seiler said, "There are so many very exciting things going on in the world right now, economically and technologically speaking, and to me they signal taking this agency to a different place" from one where "Wieden & Kennedy Portland is comfortable."
Mr. Seiler, 39, joined the New York office in May 2000 from the New York office of BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, where he had been executive vice president and director for strategic services.
Buz Sawyer, 47, will succeed Mr. Seiler, effective in mid-July. Mr. Sawyer worked at the Wieden & Kennedy Portland office from 1990 to 1992, then helped open an office in Amsterdam, where he became managing director.
He left in 1998 to become president at the San Francisco office of Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide, part of the Lowe Group unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Lowe Lintas closed the office in May after account losses there.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%) SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (84%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: WIEDEN & KENNEDY 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%); OMC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: SEILER, MATTHEW R; SAWYER, BUZ; LAURO, PATRICIA WINTERS 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



538 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Segarra Is Re-elected President Of the City Board of Education 

BYLINE:  By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS 

 BODY:
Ninfa Segarra was re-elected to a yearlong term as president of the New York City Board of Education yesterday, giving Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani continuing control of the board in his final months in office.
 Ms. Segarra is one of the mayor's two representatives on the board and certainly the most vocal. Her election underscored what had been a nakedly political struggle for control of the board, in which, even by her own account, racial and mayoral politics played as much if not more of a role than educational issues. 
 Reading a statement after her election by a 4-to-3 majority, Ms. Segarra invoked Mr. Giuliani's agenda: private management of public schools, radical cuts in central administration and the sale of the board's newly refurbished headquarters in Brooklyn. 
In later comments, she also stressed her status as the first Hispanic woman to head the board, and said that she and the board's only black member, Irving S. Hamer Jr., who cast the decisive vote in her favor, would bring special sensitivities to issues that affect black and Hispanic schoolchildren, even if they do not always agree on policy.
"For a Latina born and raised on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, and now raising two kids of my own within our public school system, I can truly say that it has been the adventure of a lifetime to serve on this board for the past 11 years," Ms. Segarra said in her statement.
She took pains to make flattering mention (twice) of Dr. Hamer, the Manhattan member, who stunned everyone in April by casting the swing vote for Ms. Segarra to become interim president. She filled out the unexpired term of William C. Thompson Jr., who resigned to run for city comptroller.
Dr. Hamer said after yesterday's vote that his reasons for supporting Ms. Segarra were the same as they were two months ago. Yet he acknowledged that one of the reasons he gave then -- the possibility that a mayoral ally would secure more city money for public schools -- had not materialized. Aides to Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy have complained that the mayor's budget will cut spending for schools by more than $200 million after inflation.
Ms. Segarra's pointed mention of having children in the public schools contrasts with Mr. Levy's enrolling his two children in private school. 
She criticized the chancellor for not having more blacks or Latinos in high-ranking positions in his administration. When pressed, she said the administration of Mr. Levy's predecessor, Rudy Crew, was also lacking in members of racial minorities, but she added that at least Dr. Crew himself was black. According to board officials, Mr. Levy has appointed 14 members of minorities, who make up 46.9 percent of his 32 senior managers. Dr. Crew appointed 24 minority-group senior managers out of his 58 appointments, or 41.4 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BOARDS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); MAYORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (74%); SCHOOL PRIVATIZATION (73%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%) SEGARRA, NINFA; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); HARTOCOLLIS, ANEMONA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



539 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Tries To Head Off Skittishness Among Lenders 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said today that more businesses have had trouble repaying bank loans as the economy has slowed, but he urged lenders not to overreact by cutting off credit to healthy borrowers.
 Speaking to the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Greenspan also said he saw few signs of accelerating inflation, despite the rise in the costs of energy and labor. His comments suggested that the Fed would not be constrained by concerns about rising prices when it meets next week to consider cutting interest rates for the sixth time this year. 
 Analysts are all but certain the Fed will reduce rates when it meets on Tuesday and Wednesday, but how big the rate cut will be is unclear. The initial betting on Wall Street was a quarter of a percentage point in the central bank's federal funds target rate on overnight loans among banks. 
Because each rate cut this year was half a point, a quarter-point reduction would signal that the Fed thinks it does not need to ease monetary policy much more to reinvigorate the faltering economy.
But with recent data showing a sharper deceleration in industrial production than anticipated -- and with inflation apparently under control -- growing numbers of economists are predicting a rate cut of half a percentage point. A poll today by the Reuters news agency of primary dealers in government securities found that 17 expected a quarter-point cut, down from 19 in a similar poll last week, while 8 expected a half-point cut, up from 6 last week.
Most of Mr. Greenspan's appearance before the committee was devoted to assessing the state of the banking system, which he said had entered the economic slowdown in good shape. 
But he said a number of industries were under intensifying financial pressure because of the weaker economy, including retailers, manufacturers, health care providers, telecommunications companies and utility companies in California. He said banking regulators would be watching closely to see if credit problems grew worse, a development that could slow any economic rebound.
Many indicators "suggest that bank asset quality is deteriorating and that supervisors, therefore, need to be more sensitive to problems at individual banks, both currently and in the months ahead," Mr. Greenspan said. "Some of the credits that were made in earlier periods of optimism -- especially syndicated loans -- are now under pressure and scrutiny."
Banks are in generally strong financial condition, he said, and have improved their ability to judge credit risk.
Still, he said, the financial system remains prone to a cycle in which overoptimism among loan officers gives way to credit problems and then a period in which even healthy borrowers have trouble getting the financing they need.
"Such policies are demonstrably not in the best interests of banks' shareholders or the economy," he said. "They lead to an unnecessary degree of cyclical volatility in earnings and, as such, to a reduced long-term capitalized value of the bank. More importantly, such policies contribute to increased economic instability."
Mr. Greenspan referred to the economy only in passing during his prepared testimony. But he touched on the state of the economy in response to several questions.
The Fed chairman said he thought the decline in the growth rate of productivity in the first quarter would not be repeated in the second quarter. Much of Mr. Greenspan's upbeat view about the economy's long-term prospects hinges on his belief that the trend in productivity growth has been driven higher by advances in technology and heavy capital spending by businesses.
He said he was not worried that the federal budget surplus would give way to deficits because of the $1.35 trillion tax cut signed into law this month by President Bush.
Asked whether rising unemployment was hurting consumer confidence and spending, Mr. Greenspan said that confidence had slipped somewhat as layoffs had increased, but that consumers continued to spend at relatively robust rates.
"We've had a significant pickup in initial claims on insured unemployment, which is the broadest measure that we've got on layoffs," Mr. Greenspan said. That is certainly affecting consumer confidence, he said. "But we have not yet seen any real serious deterioration in the actions that people take."
Asked whether he saw signs of inflation, Mr. Greenspan replied, "It's very difficult to see anything short term."
As output has slowed, he said, the labor costs associated with each unit of production have increased, a common phenomenon in a weakening economy because employers adjust their production levels more quickly than they lay off workers. 
"But we've seen no evidence that those costs are being passed through into final prices in any material way," Mr. Greenspan said.
Similarly, he said, companies are absorbing higher energy costs rather than increasing prices for consumers. Core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, has been "relatively stable," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan told a Senate committee that he saw few signs that inflation was accelerating. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); SYNDICATED LOANS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (56%); HEALTH CARE (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



540 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: States Expecting to Lose Billions From Repeal of U.S. Estate Tax 

BYLINE:  By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, June 20 

 BODY:
Even as they deal with declining revenue growth from a softening economy, states are scrambling to plan for the potential loss of $50 billion to $100 billion over 10 years from the repeal of the federal estate tax enacted last month.
 The loss in revenue would come because states for 75 years have tied their own estate and inheritance taxes to the federal estate tax. The elimination of the federal levy would have the effect of ending various state death taxes unless governors and legislators take the unpopular step of creating new taxes on estates and inheritances. 
 In all, the loss of the estate tax is expected to cost states about 1.5 percent of their tax collections, says the Federation of Tax Administrators, a nonpartisan group based in Washington. But the states' complaints about the repeal of the estate tax, as enacted by Congress and President Bush, are not limited to the amount of revenue they expect to lose. 
Governors, legislators and budget officials are also chafing under a Congressional timetable that calls for the states to lose their tax revenues by 2005 while stretching the repeal of the federal estate tax more gradually over 10 years. Because the state taxes are based on a complicated formula that involves a credit against federal tax liability, the federal government will end up pocketing the money that otherwise would have gone to the states from 2006 through 2011.
The National Governors' Association calculates that windfall at $36.5 billion over the six years. If it reaches that level, Congress will have succeeded in forcing the states to subsidize a fourth of the $138 billion, 10-year cost of repealing the federal estate tax.
Even Republican state leaders who strongly support the repeal are perturbed by what they see as inequitable treatment. And they have not been soothed by the fact that the repeal was part of a package championed by a Republican president and enacted by a Congress that had Republican majorities in both houses at the time.
Last week, Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida wrote legislative leaders in his state to warn them about anticipated revenue shortfalls, including the expected loss of $210 million from the estate tax in the 2002-03 fiscal year.
"While I support the eventual repeal of the estate tax," Mr. Bush, the president's brother, wrote, "shifting the burden merely allows Washington to spend more, while requiring us to spend less."
Estate tax revenues are hard to predict because tax officials cannot know who will die in a given year and how much they will leave. The National Governors' Association estimates the cost of the repeal to the states at "upwards of $65 billion," although the group also uses a range of $50 billion to $100 billion.
Similarly, the impact of the estate tax repeal on state revenues varies widely by state, depending on the wealth of a state's residents and the structure of its tax system.
California, for instance, would probably lose the most in actual dollars, with an estimated loss of $356 million when the estate tax begins to phase out next year and a loss of nearly $1 billion if it is fully eliminated. Because California's budget is so immense, the largest in the nation, those losses would account for only about 1.2 percent of the state's total revenues.
The impact on New York, New Jersey and Connecticut would be far greater, with each state losing 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent of total revenues. 
New Hampshire, which has no income tax on wages and no sales tax, would be the hardest hit. The anticipated loss there, while only $25 million when the tax is fully eliminated, would account for about 4.6 percent of all revenues.
"Anytime you lose revenue that accounts for 4 percent of the general fund budget, it's difficult to make up," said Gov. Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire, a Democrat. "Nobody ever likes to raise taxes. And particularly when you're eliminating a whole area of taxes, it makes it hard."
Unless the economy turns around quickly, the estate tax repeal will force many states that are already facing budget cuts to make further reductions in spending on schools, roads, prisons and social services. Some are likely to dip heavily into rainy-day funds that governors and legislators have built up during the recent economic expansion.
"Tax increases, in all honesty, seem to be off the table," said Raymond C. Scheppach, executive director of the governors' association. "So states will probably just take the hit and try to hold down spending."
State leaders are only now beginning to understand the full effect of the federal estate tax repeal on their budgets. And many are unhappy on several counts.
First, they say, the timing is unfortunate because states are already facing increasing pressure to reduce budgets because of declines in expected revenues from taxes on income and sales. Eleven states, many of them in the South, have already made midyear cuts totaling $1.6 billion in their 2001 spending plans because of revenue shortfalls and higher-than-anticipated demands for Medicaid services, according to a survey released today by the National Governors' Association and the National Association of State Budget Officers. More states are expected to do so by the end of the year.
The study found that while state revenues are still growing, they are rising at a slower rate than in recent years. Governors proposed general fund spending increases of 8.2 percent in the 2001 fiscal year, but only 3.6 percent for the 2002 fiscal year, the groups reported.
Second, many state officials are furious that the Congressional conference committee that negotiated the tax cut last month adopted a Senate plan that would effectively eliminate state death taxes faster than it would end the federal estate tax.
The measure caught many governors by surprise, and Mr. Bush supported a House plan that would have phased out the state and federal taxes simultaneously. But the Senate language prevailed in the conference committee, and Mr. Bush approved it as part of a $1.35 trillion tax cut package.
Frank Shafroth, the director of state-federal relations for the governors' association, said governors were agitated that decisions with such a significant impact on their budgets were made with little input from the states.
"This was a decision made without any consultation whatsoever or any consideration of the consequences," Mr. Shafroth said. "In some ways, I'm hearing more grumbling from Republicans than Democrats. Remember, at the time this happened, the White House, Senate and House were controlled by Republicans, and I think they thought this would bring an era of greater federalism rather than less federalism."
Senator Bob Graham of Florida, a Democrat and former governor, said that Congress's treatment of the states might set a dangerous precedent, particularly in dealing with coming debates like the taxation of sales on the Internet.
"It's going to have an adverse effect on the state-federal relationship on fiscal policy," Senator Graham said, "with states feeling they are very distinctly the redheaded third cousin at the family picnic."
About 2 percent of all estates -- those larger than $675,000 this year -- are subject to federal estate taxes. Since 1926, the federal government has allowed taxpayers to claim a dollar-for-dollar credit against their federal estate tax liability for the amount of death taxes they pay to their states. The credit is limited based on the size of the estate and a set of graduated rates that rise with the estate's taxable value.
At the moment, 38 states and the District of Columbia provide that their only state death taxes are so-called pick-up taxes that equal the credit allowed by the federal code -- thus giving the state a portion of the revenue without increasing the total tax paid by the estate. Two other states, Louisiana and Connecticut, recently passed laws to adopt pick-up taxes starting in 2004 and 2005, respectively.
The remaining 10 states have separate estate or inheritance taxes, but also use the state death tax credit to help calculate a taxpayer's liability in some instances. Those states would still lose money because of the repeal, but probably not as much as states with the pick-up tax.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Exit the Federal Estate Tax"State governments received $7.5 billion in revenue from estate and inheritance taxes in 1999. They stand to lose this revenue by 2005 because of the repeal of the federal estate tax. 1999 REVENUE FROM ESTATE AND INHERITANCE TAXES, IN MILLIONSStates With the Most to Lose 1999 REVENUE FROM ESTATE TAX, IN MILLIONSNew Hampshire: $49.4Pennsylvania: 760.7South Dakota: 26.4New York: 1,071.5Florida: 649.5Connecticut: 250.2New Jersey: 423.0Rhode Island: 46.9Vermont: 23.4Illinois: 347.0 Chart shows percentage of state revenue.Map of United States.(Source: Federation of Tax Administrators)(pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (96%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%) TAXATION; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES; STATES (US) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (54%) NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%) SACK, KEVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



541 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Disturbing Numbers for Mr. Bush 

 BODY:
During last year's presidential campaign, George W. Bush made much of his willingness to listen to the American people. But the latest New York Times/CBS News poll shows a White House increasingly and alarmingly out of touch with what Americans are thinking. One result is a downturn in Mr. Bush's overall approval ratings at precisely the moment that they might be expected to rise. There is also disenchantment with Mr. Bush on specific policy matters, particularly involving economic fairness and the environment. 
 Though it is historically true that political honeymoons tend to fade as presidencies mature, Mr. Bush and his chief political adviser, Karl Rove, cannot be happy with what they see. Mr. Bush already has one big legislative achievement under his belt, the tax cut, and he is just coming off his first foreign tour, a trip to Europe that began raggedly but ended fairly smoothly, and was treated as a triumph by the White House. Yet the president's approval rating has dropped in the last month and now hovers uncertainly at 53 percent. 
 As to taxes, Mr. Bush will be disheartened to find that half the respondents think the tax cut will do little to help the economy, while two-thirds say the money could have been better spent on Social Security and Medicare. On foreign policy, less than half approve the way Mr. Bush is handling international matters, while more than half are uneasy about his capacity to deal with a global crisis.
The verdict on Mr. Bush's handling of social issues and domestic policy must be equally disturbing to a president who began his campaign by promising to "reconnect" his party to the disadvantaged and who often stressed his kinship with "those that struggle to get into the middle class." It is not merely that the public wants the president to move more vigorously on specific matters like patients' rights and prescription drug coverage. More broadly, Mr. Bush is increasingly perceived as both the servant and captive of moneyed interests. Fifty-seven percent said the administration's policies favored the rich, only 8 percent said they favored the middle class, only 2 percent said the poor. Nearly two-thirds also said that Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney were too closely wedded to the oil and gas industry.
Given the recent prominence of energy and environmental issues, the poll asked more than the usual number of questions on these matters. By a huge margin, Mr. Bush was seen as favoring energy production over environmental protection -- and by margins nearly as large, the public said that Mr. Bush had it exactly backward. They greatly favored energy conservation over energy production, and said they would happily protect the environment even if it meant paying more for electricity and gas. 
No less interesting was the revelation that despite a huge White House public relations blitz, the public, by a nearly 2-to-1 margin, doubts whether an energy crisis even exists. Such skepticism on a matter of fundamental concern to the administration suggests a credibility problem that may go well beyond the energy question. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (70%); MEDICARE (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; TAXATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); KARL ROVE (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ROVE, KARL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



542 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: A Delicate Nuclear Balance 

BYLINE:  By Anatol Lieven; Anatol Lieven is a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

DATELINE: COPENHAGEN 

 BODY:
At his press conference in Moscow after he met with President Bush in Slovenia, President Vladimir Putin of Russia indicated his interest in a compromise on amending the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty to allow an American missile defense. But he also indicated, forcefully, that this must be a genuine compromise, taking Russian concerns into account, or Russia would retaliate with a major expansion of its nuclear arsenal. This tough stance was inevitable. From the Russian point of view, it is an effort at balance.
 The American plans carry an obvious long-term threat to Russia's own nuclear deterrent; from the viewpoint of Russian security, adding warheads to counter an American missile shield would be a logical course. More immediately, the plans put Russia in a complex situation -- especially, as President Putin hinted, with regard to China. 
 Russian and other opponents of antimissile programs have good reason to hope that defense systems will go on failing in tests, eventually burying the whole plan in domestic opposition and ridicule. The Democratic ascendancy in the Senate has increased Russian hopes in this regard. This is one good reason for Russia not to rush into an agreement.
Another reason is that Russia has no interest in getting ahead of Europe on this issue. As President Bush's talks with European leaders indicated, the latter remain profoundly skeptical of missile defense.
Russia has no interest in encouraging European leaders to abandon their skepticism. Russian hard-liners believe Russia passed up a golden opportunity to split the North Atlantic Treaty Organization over how to conduct the Kosovo war. Hostility to the United States in the Russian establishment remains strong and is fueled by the imminent prospect of NATO's expanding to include the Baltic states. Under such pressure at home, the Russian government is certainly not going to give free help to Mr. Bush in bridging a gap between America and Europe that American policies created.
If Russia is to cooperate with the United States on missile defense, it will only do so at a price. The first part of the Russian price relates to money and technology. The Russian security establishment was appalled at the shattering of Russia's high technology sector by Western-backed economic reforms in the 1990's, and by the supplanting of Russia on international markets. In return for agreeing to amend the ABM treaty, Moscow is likely to want both access to American technology and major American purchases of its own products.
Even more important, however, is the question of how, and to what extent, the ABM treaty is amended. Moscow wants a very tightly defined amendment that would allow limited protection against a few missiles from "rogue states" but would explicitly exclude future development toward a fuller shield.
This stance is dictated not only by Russia's interests, but also, as Mr. Putin stated, by those of China. Even a full-scale development of national missile defense would take decades to threaten Russia's massive deterrent -- leaving aside whether Russia, as Mr. Putin indicated, would begin adding warheads in response to unilateral American action. However, the effectiveness of China's small arsenal could be compromised very much sooner. And Russia cannot afford to make a deal with the United States at Beijing's expense.
In part, this is because Moscow needs China to counter American global influence. But even if that were not so, Russia could still not risk angering China on a vital matter, not with a long common border and a huge and growing disproportion in population and non-nuclear military might. So American negotiators must recognize that their Russian opposite numbers will, to some extent, represent Chinese interests.
Should the United States be prepared to negotiate with Russia on these terms? A public debate on this question is necessary; and for that to occur the Bush administration must decide what it really wants from missile defense and tell the public of its decision. Whether because of coyness, uncertainty, caution or some other factor, the administration's intentions on this major policy issue remain rather mysterious. If the aim is a limited shield against rogue states, then a compromise with Russia (and perhaps even China) should be possible. If the hope is to create an expandable system leading to the militarization of space, then neither Russian, nor indeed European, acceptance is likely to be forthcoming.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (93%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) LIEVEN, ANATOL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (93%); SLOVENIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) RUSSIA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



543 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan's Military Ruler Declares Himself President 

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, June 20 

 BODY:
Twenty months after toppling Pakistan's civilian government and assuming unbridled power under the misleadingly modest title of chief executive, and less than a month before flying to India for a crucial summit meeting, Gen. Pervez Musharraf today followed the pattern of three of Pakistan's military rulers over the last 50 years and appointed himself president and formal head of state.
 After a brief, understated swearing-in ceremony in Islamabad, the Pakistan capital, General Musharraf renewed assurances that he will return the country and its 140 million people to civilian rule after elections in October 2002. 
 That date was set by Pakistan's Supreme Court when it endorsed the bloodless military takeover of October 1999 but stipulated a three-year deadline for restoring democracy.
In assuming the presidency while remaining army chief of staff and chief executive, the 57-year-old general said he planned "no change in the intention" to follow the court's demand for elections, which he described as "very clear." 
Still, by pushing aside the departing civilian president, Rafiq Tara, and giving notice of his dismissal in a terse, one-sentence announcement that was read on Pakistan's state-controlled television at breakfast time, General Musharraf appeared to be setting the stage for a form of "guided democracy" that would leave him with final authority once an elected government was installed.
In Washington, the spokesman for the State Department, Richard A. Boucher, said General Musharraf's action "severely undermines Pakistan's constitutional order and casts Pakistan as a country ruled by decree rather than by democratic process."
Pakistan's presidency has traditionally carried a five-year term, and the general has already hinted that he intends to retain overall authority beyond next year.
But the timing of his move, three weeks before he is to arrive in New Delhi for a three-day summit meeting with Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee, appears to reflect diplomatic objectives too. 
The meeting from July 14 to 16, billed as the most important of its kind in years, has stirred fresh hopes of a breakthrough in the half-century of enmity and war, punctuated by sputtering attempts at reconciliation, that followed the 1947 partition of British-ruled India into India, with a Hindu majority, and Pakistan, with a population that is overwhelmingly Muslim.
By taking the presidency before the summit meeting, General Musharraf appears intent on muting questions about his legitimacy, and longer-term future, as a negotiating partner on Kashmir and other knotty issues. India had registered misgivings by proposing ceremonial arrangements that seem to fall short of a full head-of-state welcome for the Pakistani leader.
In remarks televised in Pakistan, General Musharraf presented his assumption of the presidency much as he did his original seizure of power: as the act of a reluctant patriot, motivated by a desire to rid Pakistan of corruption and economic mismanagement that left the country teetering on the edge of an economic morass.
He described taking the presidency as a "personal embarrassment" but said it was "absolutely necessary" in Pakistan's national interest to enable him to carry forward reforms that he has deemed essential if Pakistan is to have a sustainable democracy.
For the swearing-in, General Musharraf shed his usual military khaki for the high-buttoned sherwani black coat that is the traditional formal wear for the subcontinent's statesmen. 
His tone was unobtrusive, although the steel behind his move was underlined by the presence, prominent among the guests, of Pakistan's other top military leaders. 
"I personally, in all sincerity, in all honesty, think that I have a role to play in this nation," he said, "and I sincerely think that I have a job to do here. And therefore I cannot, and I will not, let this nation down."
Mr. Tarar, the ousted president, was a figurehead appointed by the deposed civilian government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. By taking the last top post not already in his grasp, General Musharraf stripped away, as some of his Pakistanis opponents see it, the last facade of constitutional rule. 
The impression was compounded by another move today, the formal dissolution of Parliament and of the legislatures in the country's four provinces. Since Parliament and all of the legislatures had been suspended since the 1999 coup, that had little practical effect.
To provide legal cover for today's moves, General Musharraf depended on a provisional constitutional order, previously approved by the Supreme Court, that gave him power to reorganize the country's institutions. But he also relied on a quiescent political situation within Pakistan. 
Overt challenges to his rule have been limited, as they were after today's announcement, when there were scattered arrests of supporters of opposition political parties, and some recent opinion polls have suggested that he is supported by a majority, or something close to it, among Pakistanis. 
Crucially, given that he leads a country with more than $35 billion of foreign debt, General Musharraf has also been accepted -- or not strongly opposed -- by Pakistan's traditional allies, including the United States, and by key international organizations like the International Monetary Fund.
Those points were pressed today by the general's chief spokesman, Maj. Gen. Rashid Qureishi, who rejected suggestions from a BBC interviewer that the Pakistani ruler was a dictator, saying that Pakistanis, and people outside Pakistan concerned for the country's well-being, recognized in General Musharraf a man "who has the best interests of the people at heart" and an austerity program that can end the downward economic spiral.
"For the first time in 14 or 15 years," General Qureishi said, referring to the last time that Pakistan had a military ruler, Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq, who died in an air crash in 1988, "the whole world has recognized that Pakistan has taken great strides towards becoming an economically viable country."
The restrained reaction today within Pakistan reflected, in part, the sense that General Musharraf was already all-powerful. But after living under military rulers for 26 of their 53 years as a nation, Pakistanis have grown leery of generals who promise a return to democracy, then adopt endless stratagems to delay it. 
That was the case with General Zia, who held power for nine years until his death, and Gen. Mohammmad Ayub Khan, who ruled for 11 years in the 1950's and 60's. The other military ruler who became president, Gen. Agha Mohammad Yahya Khan, stepped down after only two years in 1971 after losing a civil war in East Pakistan that led to the creation of Bangladesh.
Imran Khan, a former cricket hero who leads the Movement for Justice, a reformist political party, said he understood that General Musharraf felt the need for the presidency's stature before his India trip, and added that in any case his hold on the presidency would depend on his getting an elected Parliament to endorse him. 
But Mr. Khan added, "What we don't want is to get into next year and suddenly find that the elections have been postponed."
Spokesmen for Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif, who alternated as prime minister through the 1990's until both were deposed and charged in corruption scandals, were more vehement. 
"It looks to me as though we're going back to the days of Zia ul-Haq," said Yusuf Talpur, a spokesman for Ms. Bhutto, who lives in self-imposed exile in London. 
Mr. Sharif's son, Hasan Nawaz Sharif, said his father, freed from a lengthy jail term for corruption by General Musharraf last year in a deal that sent him into exile in Saudi Arabia, was "very sad and very disappointed" by the day's events, but added that Pakistani military rulers had all seen their grand plans for the country voided by one catastrophe or another.
One of Pakistan's most influential journalists, Najam Sethi, editor of the weekly Friday Times, said General Musharraf was taking advantage of the weak opposition to his rule. 
"He's neutralized India; he's neutralized the United States; he's neutralized Europe," Mr. Sethi said. "People are learning to live with him." 
In any case, there was no groundswell of opposition that might have stopped him. "The people of Pakistan are still alienated by and large from the political process," Mr. Sethi said, "and to that extent General Musharraf seems to have a clear ride."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gen. Pervez Musharraf, center, reviewing an honor guard yesterday in Islamabad after being sworn in as president of Pakistan. The general, who seized power in 1999, said he would hold elections next year. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COUPS (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ARMIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%) BURNS, JOHN F; MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN); TARA, RAFIQ (PRES); BOUCHER, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) KASHMIR (79%) INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%) PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



544 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2037 words

HEADLINE: BUSH LOSES FAVOR DESPITE TAX CUT AND OVERSEAS TRIP 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE and JANET ELDER 

 BODY:
Despite his first overseas trip as president and the passage of his sweeping measure to cut taxes, President Bush's standing as a leader on both domestic and foreign fronts has diminished considerably, the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll shows.
 Far from giving him a political lift, Mr. Bush's European tour, though it drew largely upbeat news coverage, did not appear to help him in the eyes of the public. More than half of Americans say they are uneasy about Mr. Bush's ability to tackle an international crisis, and more people than not say he is not respected by other world leaders. 
 In addition, Mr. Bush's personal appeal -- one of his most potent qualities in last year's election -- has dipped to its lowest point since April 2000, after he was lashed by Senator John McCain of Arizona in the early Republican primaries. 
And, by widening margins, people say they are less trusting that Mr. Bush will keep his word.
The poll found that a majority of Americans seem disenchanted by what they view as Mr. Bush's inattention to matters they care most about. And there is a substantial gap between his stand and theirs on many of those issues, including the patients' bill of rights, education, energy, the environment, raising the minimum wage, prescription drugs and judicial appointments.
Sooner or later, the sheen fades from new presidents, but this poll was discouraging for Mr. Bush because on nearly every critical measure tested, he has shown no improvement in recent months -- and often has lost ground.
Mr. Bush's job approval rating, which stands at 53 percent, is down seven points from March. His standing is similar to President Bill Clinton's at this point in his tenure. But, unlike Mr. Bush, Mr. Clinton's first months were marked by far more stinging legislative setbacks and political turbulence. Still, as Mr. Clinton showed, Mr. Bush clearly has time to reverse his fortunes.
The nationwide telephone poll of 1,050 adults was conducted June 14-18 during various stages of Mr. Bush's foreign trip. Its margin of sampling error was plus or minus three percentage points. 
There are similarities between Mr. Bush's predicament and that of his father. As is the case today, when the elder George Bush was president, Americans said the country was veering dangerously off on the wrong track -- and there was a widespread feeling that he was not focusing on issues of import to most Americans.
"He scares me and I'm uneasy about his approach to foreign policy," Jim Carabanas, 57, an independent who was a poll respondent, said in a follow-up interview yesterday. Mr. Carabanas, a painting contractor from Austintown, Ohio, added, "It's going to take some time until he gets the experience he needs."
"He's surrounded by advisers, but he has the last say," Mr. Carabanas said. "I'm hopeful that somewhere down the line he will be different. Clinton wasn't perfect either when he started, but he found his way."
Bill Willis, 55, a Republican who manages an automobile dealership in Paxton, Ill., was more satisfied. "So far I'm pleased," Mr. Willis said, "I'm glad I voted for him. I like his character and his honesty. He had a decent track record of bringing about reasonable leadership. He's not one who likes confrontation."
Another Republican, Betty Thomas, 62, a retired stenographer from Buffalo, said, "His personality -- doesn't inspire a lot of confidence."
"He really hasn't taken life too seriously," Ms. Thomas said, "and I don't think he's taken the presidency seriously either. He doesn't seem to have a lot to say that is specific. I don't think he's going to do much for prescription drug plans or helping the elderly. He seems to be most attentive to big business and, in particular, the big oil companies."
Indeed, on energy and the environment, as well as on foreign affairs, Mr. Bush's ratings are well below 50 percent. His handling of foreign policy is approved by 47 percent of the public; his stewardship of the environment is approved by 39 percent -- a substantial decline from a month ago. And his handling of the nation's energy problems is approved by 33 percent.
Respondents were suspicious of the administration's energy priorities because of links between the oil industry and Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney. Nearly two-thirds of Americans, including a plurality of Republicans, say that Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney are too beholden to oil companies, and that they are more likely to formulate policies that favor the industry.
"I'm very concerned about the environment and I think he's favoring energy production over the environment," said Marjorie Green, 54, a Republican who is a retired lawyer in Satellite Beach, Fla. "I think he's very much influenced by big oil."
A majority of respondents are skeptical that there actually is an energy shortage. More than 6 of 10 said Americans were being told there was a problem to give oil companies an excuse to charge more money.
By nearly two to one, respondents said they favored protecting the environment over producing energy. They said that Mr. Bush takes the opposite view, making energy production his priority.
Seventy-two percent of those surveyed said it was necessary to take immediate steps to counter the effects of global warming. While the administration has rejected the Kyoto accord on global warming, more than half the public said that the United States should abide by the agreement, even if it meant that China and India would not have to follow the same standards.
There was a wide perception that the Bush administration favors the rich over the middle class and poor, with 57 percent saying the administration's policies favor the rich, 8 percent saying they favor the middle class, 2 percent saying they favor the poor, and 27 percent saying the administration equally addresses the interests of all groups.
Mr. Bush is also seen as less caring about the average person than he was three months ago. And his difficulties with black Americans -- who voted overwhelmingly for Al Gore, Mr. Bush's Democratic rival -- seemed to have deepened. Eighteen percent of respondents said Mr. Bush cares a lot about the needs and problems of black people, down from 30 percent three months ago when Mr. Bush was making high-profile overtures to African-Americans.
The commanding hold Mr. Bush once had on the public's trust has diminished. Forty-nine percent say Mr. Bush can be trusted to keep his word; 40 percent say he cannot. When he took office nearly six months ago, 56 percent said Mr. Bush could be trusted to keep his word, and 33 percent said he could not.
More people are questioning Mr. Bush's leadership skills. Fifty-four percent of respondents say Mr. Bush has strong qualities of leadership, down from 59 percent in February and from 68 percent in October 1999, when he was governor of Texas.
Apart from the discomfort about Mr. Bush himself, the public's anxiety about the future of Social Security is as high now as at any time in the 10 previous readings taken over the last 20 years by the Times and CBS News. The respondents said Mr. Bush's tax cut of $1.35 trillion over 10 years would not have much effect on the economy -- and that the money could have been put to better use in programs like Social Security and Medicare. (The tax cut has been approved, but people have yet to receive their rebate checks.) 
"He needs to be more specific on how he intends to protect Social Security and Medicare," said Gary Levi, 60 a truck driver from Denver who is an independent. "I haven't heard enough about his plan."
The president's difficulties may have tarnished how people perceive Republicans. Forty-six percent hold a favorable view of the party, which is similar to the party's standing in the wake of the contentious impeachment hearings. By contrast, 56 percent hold a favorable view of the Democratic Party. Three months ago, 54 percent viewed the Republican Party favorably. 
On a host of issues, in fact, the respondents' views are closer to those espoused by Democrats than those of Mr. Bush and other Republicans. Three-quarters of those surveyed want Medicare to include provisions for prescription drugs, even if that means an increase in premiums for Medicare patients. Nearly two-thirds said the program should be available to all Medicare recipients, not just those with low incomes.
Seven in 10 respondents favor a patients' bill of rights, even if it means higher costs for participating in health care plans. More than 5 in 10 favor a law guaranteeing people the right to sue their health plan for denying coverage. That figure drops to 5 in 10 when respondents are asked to consider that the right to sue might result in increased costs.
More than half the public favors raising the minimum wage to $6.65 an hour over three years from the current $5.15. Another 3 in 10 favor raising the minimum wage to $6.15 instead. Only 1 in 10 favors keeping the minimum wage at its current level.
Although Americans favor mandatory testing of students in public schools, they oppose it if the scores are used to decide how federal money for education is allocated. Both the House and Senate have passed education bills requiring testing.
Given the closely divided Congress, and the recent change of the Senate to Democratic hands after the defection of James M. Jeffords of Vermont from the Republican Party, a majority of Americans are bracing for more partisan bickering. Even so, they say they expect Mr. Bush and Democrats to seek compromises. Whatever the outcome, the public says Mr. Bush has more influence over the nation's direction than the Democrats in Congress.
Despite the publicity about Mr. Bush sometimes working banker's hours, 53 percent of respondents say he is working hard enough, while 38 percent said he should be working harder. 
Asked the same question about President Ronald Reagan in early 1982, 58 percent said he was working hard enough and 35 percent said he should be working harder.
As often happens with vice presidents, Mr. Cheney, who had an unusually high profile at the start of the administration, seems to have receded. Fifty-nine percent have no opinion of Mr. Cheney, compared with 49 percent in a CBS poll two months ago, while 27 percent view him favorably, and 14 percent view him unfavorably.
While Mr. Bush has plenty of time to win over the public, some people do not want to give him the benefit of the doubt. "I didn't trust him when he was governor of Texas," said Shirley Autrey, 55, an independent who is a retired mill worker from Rome, N.Y. "I don't think he wanted to be president in the first place. I think he got roped into it."
Joyce Bruegteman, 29, a Republican who is an administrative assistant in Sparta, Wis., was more encouraging. "I feel he is a Christian man struggling to lead his country the best way he can with his Christianity. I'm behind him for that. I know it can't be easy."

How the Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted June 14 through June 18 with 1,050 adults throughout the United States.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, age, marital status and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variations in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush at a Labor Department conference yesterday. (Photograph by Associated Press)(pg. A1) Chart: "How is the president handling" his jobAPPROVE: 53%DISAPPROVE: 34% the economyAPPROVE: 50%DISAPPROVE: 38% foreign policyAPPROVE: 47%DISAPPROVE: 31% the environmentAPPROVE: 39%DISAPPROVE: 46% the energy situationAPPROVE: 33%DISAPPROVE: 55% Which is more important to you? PRODUCING ENERGY: 29%PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT: 55% Which do you think is more important to the president?PRODUCING ENERGY: 71%PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT: 12%(Source: The New York Times/CBS News Poll)(pg. A1) Chart: "Views on President Bush"Percentage of those polled who: Think Bush has strong qualities of leadership.YES: 54%NO: 38NO OPINION: 8 Have confidence in Bush's ability to deal wisely with an international crisis.YES: 42%NO: 52NO OPINION: 6 Think Bush has the skills needed to negotiate effectively with world leaders.YES: 45%NO: 44NO OPINION: 11 Think the leaders of other countries have respect for Bush.YES: 37%NO: 44NO OPINION: 19 Trust Bush more to make the right decisions about who should sit on the U.S. Supreme Court, rather than the Senate Democrats.YES: 37%NO: 51NO OPINION: 12 Think Bush can be trusted to keep his word as president.YES: 49%NO: 40NO OPINION: 11 Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted June 14-18 with 1,050 adults. (pg. A18) Chart: "Public Appraisal of Bush Policies"Was using a significant portion of the budget surplus to cut taxes the best thing to do, or would it have been better to spend the money on programs like Social Security and Medicare? TAX CUT: 28%SOCIAL SECURITY AND MEDICARE: 64NO OPINION: 8 Since he has been president, has Bush concentrated on the problems that matter most to you, or on other problems?PROBLEMS THAT MATTER MOST: 25%OTHER PROBLEMS: 61NO OPINION: 14 The policies of the Bush administration favorTHE RICH: 57%THE MIDDLE CLASS: 8THE POOR: 2ALL GROUPS THE SAME: 27NO OPINION: 6 Should the Medicare system pay for prescription drugs even if it means an increase in premiums and program costs?YES: 74%NO: 19NO OPINION: 7 Should we protect the environment even if it means paying higher prices for electricity and gasoline?YES: 57%NO: 36NO OPINION: 6 Should increasing the production of petroleum, coal and natural gas be a priority, or should conservation?PRODUCTION OF FOSSIL FUELS: 21%CONSERVATION: 68NO OPINION: 11 Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted June 14 -18 with 1,050 adults. (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (65%); PAINT & WALLPAPER CONTRACTORS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TAXATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ENVIRONMENT; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); COURTS; JUDGES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) BERKE, RICHARD L; ELDER, JANET; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



545 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

NATO Would Send Troops To Aid a Macedonia Accord
NATO is planning to send a force of up to 3,000 mainly European troops to Macedonia to disarm ethnic Albanian rebels if a political settlement is reached to end the insurgency. The United States is likely to provide transport, intelligence and other forms of support, officials said. A1

Deadlocked talks on ending the conflict were suspended, and President Boris Trajkovski sought international help in breaking the impasse. A8

American Found Guilty in Peru
Lori Berenson, a 31-year-old New Yorker held more than five years in Peruvian prisons on terror charges, was convicted by a civilian court in Lima and sentenced to 20 years in prison for collaborating in a foiled plot to take lawmakers hostage. A1

Powell Mideast Trip Planned
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell will travel to the Mideast next week to help shore up the cease-fire and try to push the Israelis and Palestinians on a path toward political talks. A12

Israel authorized plans for military operations against the Palestinian Authority, but officials said they would be held in abeyance to give the cease-fire plan more time. A12

Coke Joins Africa AIDS Fight
Coca-Cola, the largest employer in Africa, said it would use its advertising and distribution resources to combat AIDS on the continent. A8

Refugee Chief Scolds Nations
On the first World Refugees' Day, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees criticized wealthy West European countries and Australia for increasingly closing their borders to the world's 21 million refugees. A10

Self-Promotion in Pakistan
General Pervez Musharraf named himself president and head of state, 20 months after toppling the civilian government and taking the misleadingly modest title chief executive. A3

World Briefing A10

NATIONAL A14-22

Bush's Standing Declines In Public's Eye, Poll Finds
President Bush's approval rating has dropped 7 percentage points since March, to 53 percent, despite his first overseas trip as president and his successful push for a big tax cut. The poll found uneasiness in the public's perception of Mr. Bush's trustworthiness, domestic policies and ability to handle foreign affairs and crises. A1

White House Business
The White House defended several recent private meetings with corporate executives who have important issues before the government, as scores of other executives from the Business Roundtable came to see President Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and other top officials. A18

House G.O.P. Patients' Bill
House Republican leaders, fearing defections on the issue of patients' rights, have drafted a bill that goes further than President Bush would like in allowing consumers to sue H.M.O.'s and other insurers. A16

The Bush administration is pressing House Republicans to reinstate hundreds of millions of dollars they cut from politically sensitive disaster relief projects. A22

F.B.I. Subjected to Review
Attorney General John Ashcroft announced a wide-ranging review of the F.B.I. as the Senate Judiciary Committee held the first in a series of hearings into managerial and investigative lapses at the agency. A22

U.S. Dropping Bear Program
The Interior Department said it was abandoning a Clinton administration plan to reintroduce grizzly bears, a threatened species, into the isolated wilds of Idaho and Montana. A14

Governor Assails Regulators
Gov. Gray Davis of California, testifying in Congress, accused federal regulators of allowing power companies to "bilk our state" of billions. A14

Missing Intern Case
The District of Columbia police have asked Representative Gary Condit for a second interview about his relationship with a missing 24-year-old woman, Chandra Levy. A22

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

City Board Gives Landlords Bigger Rent Increases
The New York City Rent Guidelines Board reversed itself by imposing increases one percentage point higher than it proposed a month ago: 4 percent for one-year lease renewals and 6 percent for two-year leases. B1

Insurers Threaten to Leave
American International said it had filed documents requesting approval to close shop in New Jersey, where the company insures about 4 percent of the 4.8 million vehicles in the state. Liberty Mutual, with 11 percent of the state's business, said it too was looking to pull out. State Farm, which has 17 percent of the state market, announced a similar intention last week. The companies cite regulatory issues, inadequate rates and slow progress on cost-saving measures enacted in 1998. B1

Republican Primary Battle
Bob Franks called Bret D. Schundler, his rival for the Republican gubernatorial nomination in New Jersey, an "extremist" whose "radical" stands against abortion rights and gun control would make him unelectable in November. A poll gave Mr. Schundler a wide lead over Mr. Franks. B1

Manhattan Alligator Hunt
Officials are trying to track down an alligator sighted in Central Park by several people, and figure out what to do with it once they catch it. B3

SPORTS D1-8

CIRCUITS G1-8

ARTS E1-10

EDUCATION

A Poet Laureate From CUNY
Billy Collins, distinguished professor of English at Lehman College in the Bronx, was chosen to be the next poet laureate of the United States. B3

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Bolstering Ethanol Program
A report prepared for Congress by the Bush administration recommends continuing federal incentives for ethanol-fueled vehicles, despite finding that the program has failed to reduce gasoline consumption or substantially increase the use of alternative fuels and has contributed to global warming. A1

Software Maker Is Target
A billionaire Texan, Sam Wyly, plans to begin a proxy fight today to take control of Computer Associates. C1

Greenspan's Plea to Lenders
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, said more businesses have had trouble repaying loans as the economy has slowed, but he urged lenders not to cut credit to healthy borrowers. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES C13

HOUSE & HOME F1-16

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Merger-busting in Europe; disturbing numbers for Mr. Bush; South Africa's failure on AIDS.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E9
Crossword E6
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); VERDICTS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); SENTENCING (75%); AIDS & HIV (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (67%); LEGISLATION (64%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (82%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (57%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PERU (92%); AFRICA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



546 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW; 
A Ship Full of Pop References, From Viagra to Disney's 'Aida'

BYLINE:  By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
If any Gilbert and Sullivan operetta bears the stamp of New York, it is surely "Pirates of Penzance," which, for all show business purposes, had its world premiere engagement at the Fifth Avenue Theater, where it opened on Dec. 31, 1879.
 So little wonder that the good-natured, wisecracking, devil-may-care version running (and otherwise cavorting) through Sept. 30 on the deck beneath the towering masts and rigging aboard the good ship Peking at the South Street Seaport carries so audible a cargo of New York attitude. 
 Jettisoning reverence and taking all sorts of liberties with the tale of the rocky road to romance of the dutiful young Frederic, indentured to pirates till his 21st birthday, this adaptation by Michael Scheman, the director, and Steven Gross, the musical director, pays lip service to its hallowed source while injecting the high jinks with a healthy dose of early 21st-century references.
Musically, this intermissionless, roughly 90-minute show rocks, raps and resorts to swing, gospel, Latin rhythms and barbershop harmony. Choreographically, it boogies, applies Elvis to the pelvis, dances the hora and gets down on its back and kicks up its heels in tribute to Busby Berkeley. In various ways it refers to "West Side Story," "Cats," "The Sound of Music," Disney's "Aida" and "42nd Street." It costumes its cast in cheerleader outfits, jeans, biker boots, T-shirts, baseball caps, running shoes, sandals and shades. 
And it fills mouths with street language, double entendres and gossip column bon bons like Madonna, Miramax, Donald and Ivana Trump and Viagra, while not ignoring Page 1 names like Bush, Cheney, Clinton and Nixon or the gossip column and front-page squire of Gracie Mansion. The show also finds time to take digs at corporate life and to pause briefly on Kosovo and the human genome, and never shies from making fun of itself or its creators, for that matter.
Colin Hanlon conveys a suitable innocence as Frederic. Montego Glover brings a winsome passion to Mabel, his love. And Jonathan Brody as the Pirate King finds the proper balance between menacing appearance and soft heart. In the hard-working cast, most of the evening's performing fun falls to Martin Van Treuren in two roles: Frederic's campy nursemaid, Ruth, played in drag, and the bushy browed Major General Stanley, whose daughters are imperiled by the pirates.
Carrying classic tunes like "I Am the Very Model of a Modern Major General," "When the Foeman Bares His Steel" and "With Cat-Like Tread," this "Pirates" offers the faithful some G.&S. sustenance, though purists may gnash their dentures at alterations in the lyrics and the importation of music from "Ruddigore" and "The Mikado." The uninitiated will find plenty to amuse ear and eye as the playful action and audience move around the deck.
This is definitely a "Pirates" with a difference. What it lacks here and there in overall polish is compensated by zest. The true test of the show comes when darkness falls over Lower Manhattan and eyes that shift momentarily westward from the antics on deck encounter the lighted windows staring back from the financial area's skyscrapers, engaged in the ceaseless commerce of the global economy.
The sight comes as something of a shock, and the realization follows that without leaving its berth, the Peking, from the era of sail, and this high-spirited "Pirates of Penzance," from the age of Victoria, are providing a refreshing get-away-from-it-all voyage into a warm night's fun.

PIRATES OF PENZANCE

Original book and lyrics by W. S. Gilbert; music by Arthur Sullivan; directed and adapted by Michael Scheman; musical direction, adaptation and arrangements by Steven Gross; production stage manager, B. J. Forman; costumes and properties by Dawn Robyn Petrlik; lighting by Stephen Quandt; sound by Carlos Garcia. Associate producers, Mary Ellen Ashley and Anne Bernstein. Presented by On Deck Entertainment, Diane Krausz and Brett Singer & Associates. At the Peking Ship, South Street Seaport Museum, Pier 17, Lower Manhattan.

WITH: Colin Hanlon (Frederic), Jonathan Brody (Pirate King), Martin Van Treuren (Ruth/Major General), Montego Glover (Mabel), Kevin Covert (Police Sergeant/Ensemble), Mike Lesser (Gilbert) and Sue Gilad (Sullivan).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yo, ho, ho and a bottle of songs: Colin Hanlon as Frederic and Montego Glover as Mabel in "Pirates of Penzance." (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1); A "Pirates of Penzance" adaptation that mixes tradition with high jinks. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER REVIEWS (91%); OPERA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC (88%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (75%) OPERA; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM (59%) SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM (NYC) 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%)

PERSON: MADONNA (79%) VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE; GILBERT, WILLIAM S (SIR) (1836-1911); SULLIVAN, ARTHUR S (SIR) (1842-1900); SCHEMAN, MICHAEL; GROSS, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); KOSOVO (67%)

TITLE: PIRATES OF PENZANCE (OPERETTA) 

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



547 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Business Leaders Visit Bush at White House 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20 

 BODY:
As the White House defended several recent private meetings with corporate executives who have important issues before the government, scores of other executives from the Business Roundtable came to see President Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and other top officials today.
 The executives were treated to lengthy private briefings this afternoon by Mr. Cheney on energy, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell on foreign policy and the trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, on his efforts to start a new round of global trade talks, a step many of the companies represented in the room have long urged. 
 The executives included many of Mr. Bush's large contributors, but several Democrats, including Franklin D. Raines, who ran the Office of Management and Budget in the Clinton administration, were there as well. Mr. Bush asked the executives to lobby for trade promotion authority, once known as fast track, which limits Congress's ability to amend trade pacts once they are negotiated. 
Today's session was one of the larger meetings of corporate leaders at the White House. But it occurred while Mr. Bush's aides were still addressing questions about private meetings between business executives and top White House officials.
Those questions were amplified today after The Wall Street Journal disclosed that Mr. Cheney met privately on Tuesday with Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft. The White House said the two men did not discuss the decision expected shortly by the federal appeals court in the government's antitrust case against Microsoft, which the company hopes to settle, but talked instead about education, trade and tax policy.
Three months ago another top official, Karl Rove, met with Intel executives when Mr. Rove held more than $100,000 in stock in the company, which makes computer chips, was seeking government approval of the sale of one of its most important equipment suppliers to a Dutch company.
The White House has said that Mr. Rove referred the Intel executive, Craig Barrett, to the National Economic Council, which was handling the issue. The same day, Mr. Barrett also met with Mr. Cheney and raised the issue, but Mr. Cheney appeared unfamiliar with it, Intel officials have said.
Democrats and environmentalists have also complained that the White House sought advice from energy industry executives in the formulation of its energy policy this spring.
Kenneth L. Lay, the chief executive of Enron and a longtime friend and supporter of the Bush family, has had considerable access to the White House, although officials deny that he lobbied the president or vice president on the energy proposal.
Ari Fleischer, the president's spokesman, said there was nothing inappropriate about private meetings between White House officials and corporate executives with business before the government.
"There is hardly a citizen who is not seeking something from the government, and that's a formula for saying the government shall never meet with anybody," Mr. Fleischer said today at his daily news briefing. "There are many organizations that come to Washington for the sole purpose of lobbying members of Congress or lobbying the administration on an education issue, for example. It is entirely appropriate for the administration to listen -- to hear them, just as it's entirely appropriate for the administration to listen to steelworkers who want to come to Washington, or to listen to business leaders who want to come to Washington."
But Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, today renewed his request for more information about the Intel meeting with Mr. Rove and similar meetings that he might have held with other executives. Mr. Waxman also said he wanted to know more about which organizations and companies had met with the White House to help formulate its energy policy.
"I can't understand why the White House simply won't answer the questions about the role Mr. Rove played in some of these decisions," Mr. Waxman said in an interview. "The biggest concern I have right now is they are keeping it secret. Their energy task force met in secret."
Mr. Waxman disputed the contention of some White House officials and Republicans that he was simply repaying the new administration for the aggressive investigations of the Clinton administration.
"I can understand why they would be worried about payback given the way the Republicans acted during the Clinton years," Mr. Waxman said. "But that's not the way I think we ought to behave. I haven't called for an investigation or a hearing. I'm simply seeking information."
Mr. Bush and his top advisers met this afternoon with scores of chief executives from the Business Roundtable. They included Philip M. Condit of Boeing; Scott G. McNealy of Sun Microsystems; Lewis Campbell of Textron; Kenneth Chenault of American Express; Raymond Gilmartin of Merck; Maurice Greenberg of American International Group; William Harrison of J. P. Morgan Chase; Leo Mullin of Delta Air Lines; David O'Reilly of Chevron; Frederick Smith of Fedex; Sidney Taurel of Eli Lilly, and G. Richard Wagoner of General Motors. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHICS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (68%); TAX LAW (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); COMPUTER CHIPS (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (56%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BUSINESS ROLE IN POLITICS 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); INTEL CORP (53%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (90%); KARL ROVE (78%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (57%); FRANK RAINES (54%) LABATON, STEPHEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); FLEISCHER, ARI 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2001 



548 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
Pride, Hope and Hardship In the Land of Cotton

BYLINE:  By A. O. SCOTT 

 BODY:
"It's a different world here," says Reggie Barnes, superindendent of the West Tallahatchie School District in the Mississippi Delta. Mr. Barnes, whose patience and discipline seem to mask a deep reservoir of anger, is one of the heroes of "LaLee's Kin: The Legacy of Cotton," a moving documentary by Susan Froemke, Deborah Dickson and Albert Mays les that opens today at the Quad.
 The movie, a window into a world of poverty and neglect, will shock the conscience of those who believe that racism and inequality belong to a closed chapter of American history. Its images of barefoot children playing on abandoned cars outside dilapidated motor homes, and of families who get water for drinking and washing by filling plastic jugs from a hose outside the county jail, are jarring and upsetting. 
 But the film, an exemplary work of cinema verite that allows its subjects to speak for themselves, traffics neither in pity nor in political grandstanding. Harsh as it is, "LaLee's Kin" is also a testament to the resiliency of people, Mr. Barnes among them, who struggle with the grim aftereffects of generations of slavery and sharecropping, and try to provide the children of Tallahatchie County with love, education and hope.
The center of the film's closely observed universe is Laura Lee Walker, or LaLee, the 62-year-old matriarch of a large extended family that includes 11 children, 38 grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren, a number of whom live with her. In the days when cotton ruled the local economy, Ms. Walker could pick up to 450 pounds in a day, and her opinion of those days, when children would be pulled out of school during the harvest months, is succinct: "I hate cotton."
But the mechanization of cotton production, while it has spared subsequent generations from backbreaking labor for low wages, has produced new hardships. Ms. Walker augments her monthly disability benefits of $494 by selling home-cooked meals to workers at the local cotton mill, but it requires all her energy and resourcefulness to keep the children she must care for clothed, fed and out of trouble. "I cry sometime, I pray sometime, I sing sometime," she says.
Meanwhile, Mr. Barnes, as tireless and stubborn as Ms. Walker, struggles to improve test scores so that his district can be removed from probation and freed from the threat of a state takeover. His efforts, and the obstacles he faces, provide the film with narrative momentum.
The parents of many of his pupils are illiterate, and many children starting kindergarten, he says, "don't know their names, don't know colors and have never been read to." How, he wonders, can such children be held to the same standards as their more privileged counterparts? To make matters worse, the schools do not provide basic supplies like pencils, pens and paper towels, increasing the burden on families like Ms. Walker's. 
Ms. Walker is an impressive and complex character, strict and loving with her young charges and candid and witty with Mr. Maysles' camera. She is admirable, but not perfect, and even her superhuman efforts are overwhelmed by circumstances.
One of the children in LaLee's care is 12-year-old Cassandra, nicknamed Granny. A smart, attentive girl, she becomes listless and depressed, and her grades begin to slip, in part because her household and child-care responsibilities leave little time for homework. Another child, whom Ms. Walker calls Main, appears to withdraw into an angry inner world, where neither his great-grandmother nor the volunteer from the local mentoring program seem able to reach him.
The predicament of these children raises some issues that the documentary could have explored more fully. We are left wondering where their parents are and why the children have ended up in LaLee's care. At times, the film's focus on Ms. Walker and Mr. Barnes feels too narrow, leaving us guessing about other relevant facts of life in the Delta.
When Granny moves out of LaLee's trailer and into her grandfather's house, she begins to blossom, and her grades improve. Several times, members of her family assure themselves that she'll be all right, and the overtones of pride and almost superstitious hope in their voices are heartbreaking. And if, in the end, their optimism seems justified, it also seems terribly fragile.
The achievement of "LaLee's Kin" is to extend the bonds of kinship into the audience, to make the fate of Main, Granny and the rest of LaLee's family a matter of overwhelming personal concern. It's a movie about the power of love, but also about the limitations of that power, and it does not flatter you by pretending that it can change anything by making you care. But not caring would be infinitely worse, and this movie takes a humane and honorable stand against indifference.

LALEE'S KIN
The Legacy of Cotton

Directed by Susan Froemke and Deborah Dickson with Albert Maysles; director of photography, Mr. Maysles; edited by Ms. Dickson; music by Gary Lucas; produced by Ms. Froemke; released by Maysles Films Inc. At the Quad Cinema, 13th Street, west of Fifth Avenue, Greenwich Village. Running time: 89 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: LaLee Wallace and Reggie Barnes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FILM (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); COTTON FARMING (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); FARM LABOR (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); HISTORY (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); RACE & RACISM (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (54%) MOTION PICTURES; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS; REVIEWS 

PERSON: FROEMKE, SUSAN; DICKSON, DEBORAH; MAYSLES, ALBERT; SCOTT, A O 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: LALEE'S KIN: THE LEGACY OF COTTON (DOCUMENTARY FILM) 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



549 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 2697 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE REVIEW; 
Mies's Dreams With Windows

BYLINE:  By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
MIES IN BERLIN" and "Mies in America" -- two major museum shows dreaded by many, especially by me -- have turned out to be surprisingly good. They actually do what they set out to do: present a picture of Ludwig Mies van der Rohe we haven't seen before. Rather than repackaging this great German modernist (1886-1969) as a field marshal of reason, obsessed with compressing all of human existence into uniform, three-dimensional grids, these two shows depict Mies as a supervisor of fantasy: an interpreter of the 20th century's deepest dream of itself.
 An architectural aesthetic long regarded as a negation of self is revealed to be the crystallized expression of a path toward self-discovery. The Seagram Building, the Farnsworth House, the New National Gallery in Berlin and Mies's other masterworks are shown to be autobiographies. 
 Organized jointly by the Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art, but by different curatorial teams, the shows both emphasize process over product. "Mies in Berlin," at the Modern, traces the development of this architect's formal vocabulary in the years before he left Europe in 1938. "Mies in America," at the Whitney, documents the obsessive perfectionism with which he refined that vocabulary down to the smallest detail. 
You really do need to see both, and in chronological order. Together they establish that Mies was preoccupied by issues that remain of architectural moment: historical awareness, urban context and architecture's role in defining the relationship between subjective perception and objective reality. Above all, these exhibitions point toward a fundamental unity of architectural forms and the history of ideas.
Why the dread? For more than two years the Modern numbed visitors with an epic trio of exhibitions -- "Modern Starts," "Making Choices" and "Open Ends" -- that surveyed every clogged pore of the museum's own past. Each included a multitude of mini-exhibitions on this or that thematic premise. By the end the enterprise seemed to spin and spin into a senseless blur.
Then the drumrolls started. This was going to be the definitive portrait of Mies. It was going to blow away the distorted views of him held all these years. The problem with such claims is that it has never been possible to generalize about the reception of Mies's work. Did his reputation suffer during the postmodern dispensation? No. Postmodernists who belittled Mies only made fools of themselves. Was it a secret that some of his early work was Expressionist in spirit? No. That he paid careful attention to movement and landscape as well as void space, abstract geometric form and structural expression? No. So why bother with these exercises? Simply because in the past the Modern itself had presented an overly simplistic version of the architect most closely identified with its own aesthetic?
Don't go to these shows expecting radically new ideas then. What you will find is the documented story of an extraordinarily rich and complex mind, as well as an immersion in a creative process that spanned, and helped to define, a critical chapter in the history of the present. And you will find a touchstone for philosophical issues that engage architects even more fully today than they did in Mies's lifetime.
Organized by Terence Riley, chief curator of the Modern's department of architecture and design, and Barry Bergdoll, professor of art history at Columbia University, "Mies in Berlin" is a powerful study of artistic formation. It unfolds in a series of dynamic exchanges between Mies's inner and outer worlds. Like its subject the show starts in the world of turn-of-the-century German suburban neo-Classicism, if you can bear to imagine such a thing. Evidently Mies himself could not stand to recall it; he suppressed publication of works from this early period. They are gems.
After a brief presentation of work by architects who influenced Mies, the show focuses on a group of country houses, including one for a philosophy professor, a Nietzsche scholar, who became the young architect's mentor. (This in itself is fascinating, particularly if you never subscribed to the orthodox view of Mies as a pure classicist.) Seen through a Nietzschean lens -- the Riehl House, Mies's first executed work (1907) -- his classicism reveals the irrational strain of Greek thought in its relationship to the landscape.
The building is mainly an ornament to the land, an arrangement of garden rooms that echoes the building's floor plan. Though Mies equips the house with conventional windows, he introduces the continuity between inside and outside that his glass buildings later achieve.
Mies's second commission, the Perls House (1911), also demonstrates the reconciliation of opposites through controlled movement. Classical, Romantic and picturesque, the house is distinguished by monumental steps that lead from the house to the garden. Possibly inspired by Appia, the famed theatrical designer, the steps create an architecture of pure fluid movement through open space, unencumbered by walls, roofs and interior enclosures.
The turning point at "Mies in Berlin" arrives with a gallery that celebrates Mies's own arrival in that city, where he moved from his native Aachen in 1905. The gallery is dedicated to work by the various artists who contributed to G, an avant-garde publication that epitomized the cultural vitality of the Weimar period. 
Mies contributed one of his glass skyscraper projects, which is featured on the cover he designed. The installation highlights formal and conceptual resemblances between the skyscraper and the other work on view. Perhaps the most surprising of these are between the glass tower's curving floor plan and the biomorphic shapes in a series of prints by Arp. The juxtaposition gives the viewer license to speculate that the Miesian aesthetic arose from Surrealist as well as Expressionist roots. The entire gallery recreates the ambience of a period before a variety of experiments had congealed into mutually exclusive movements.
Haunting images by Thomas Ruff, digitally manipulated photographs of Mies's existing early buildings, sustain a Surrealist mood throughout the exhibition. And the installation design overall employs Miesian devices like collage, partitioned space and switchback procession.
Midway through the show it may occur to you that what you are witnessing is not just a chronological survey but an allegory that will soon be translated into the form of individual buildings. The outsider dreams of being inside. Provincial boy yearns for big city. Is drawn toward this ideal of the cultivated life as a means of access. Discovers that he belongs. Realizes that the yearning is for something inside as well as outside himself. Finds that art is a tool for satisfying both desires.
This is the Miesian plot that will now be played and replayed in the buildings known to us. Thanks to marvelous animated digital re-creations by Gustavo Bonevardi and John Bennett, we can see this narrative precisely rendered into architectural form. Here's a villa, for example, the Resor House, designed in 1937-38 for a site in Jackson Hole, Wyo. The main living quarters are raised above ground by columns rising from a stream and by a lower story of rustic stone. (In other projects, a plinth or podium performs the same function.) As in Schinkel's work, the elevation signifies the higher realms of civilized life: we're not just in the country but in a fragment of sophisticated urban life.
With its contrasting expanses of glass and stone, the house is a siren, a tease, a mirage: the organization of materials simultaneously conceals and reveals. (In later buildings, with solid glass walls, reflections create a subtler veiling effect.)
Now the plot thickens as we proceed inside the house, through the switchback circulation ordained by partitions and the placement of furniture. This procession is a series of spatial surprises, which Mr. Riley invites us to see as a sequence of cinematic storyboards. The sequence conforms to the classic formalist analysis of narrative: an initial equilibrium is followed by a series of destabilizing events until a heightened state of equilibrium is finally attained.
In this case, that final state is achieved in the visual unity between inside and outside, culture and nature. But plot itself is more important than its resolution. The partitions, the furniture groups, the artwork on the walls and the switchback path among them: these are urban elements, the turns and surprises of two inner cities, the heart of the modern metropolis and the veiled streetscape of the mind. Despite attaining the status of an insider, in other words, Mies retains the outline of the fantasy that lured him on. Observe Erich von Stroheim pull out a lighter as the Spider Woman extends her cigarette in a long obsidian holder.
Mies will remain an outsider always, even when all of corporate America has embraced his aesthetic as its official face. Even as glass skyscrapers are beginning to reshape the skylines of cities across the country, Mies will remain isolated by his relentless perfectionism and by the personal and cultural history crystallized in the great apartment buildings on Lake Shore Drive in Chicago and in office towers there and in New York and Toronto. The isolation of genius: this is the story of the Whitney show, "Mies in America."
It has been organized by Phyllis Lambert, director of the Canadian Center for Architecture and the Bronfman family member who chose Mies to design the Seagram Building, his masterwork. I am quoted on a wall text calling Seagram "the Building of the Millennium." Correction: I now think it is the Building of Two Millenniums, for it telescopes, within what Mies called his "almost nothing" aesthetic, everything essential in Western architecture, from the Greeks to the Gothic builders to ourselves.
Ms. Lambert's approach is different from the Modern's, which is to say that it reflects Mies's own decisive shift from absorption to expression, or more accurately to the reduction of what needed to be expressed. The Farnsworth House, designed as a weekend retreat outside Chicago for a single woman, provides an ideal focus for the reduction process.
What will be admitted into consciousness or historical awareness; where and how will it be admitted; and by the same token what will be retained on the level of unspoken memory or fantasy? Mies will acknowledge, if reluctantly, that we have bodies, that bodies are subject to gravity, that therefore the body requires feet and a floor to support it. Other physical particulars require a roof and walls. Living together, even on retreat, requires social organization. Changes in this organization create history, in memory and as it is lived. "Less is more." Presented as positive voids, Mies's spaces are receptacles for more of whatever you care to bring into them, where, in the case of a country house, it will be mixed with nature.
The project that best exemplifies Mies's shift to expression is the campus he designed for the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago, which he directed from 1938 to 1958. Here, on Chicago's industrial outskirts, Mies renewed his outsider status. The institute was not Harvard. Here he was economically challenged to create more with less; "almost nothing" out of almost nothing, in fact. Still, almost singlehandedly, he revived Chicago's reputation as the first city of American architecture. No other United States city has bestowed such eminence on an architect of Mies's stature.
At the institute Mies reiterated the basic Bauhaus vision of art fused with technology to create a more enlightened modern world. At the Bauhaus, however, technology was more metaphoric than real. At the institute's laboratories for metallurgy, mechanics and other industrial fields surrounded the school of architecture.
Ms. Lambert presents the many variations prepared by Mies before he resolved the campus. A sculptural installation of urban scale, it deployed the two-story buildings in an asymmetrical arrangement against a field of open space. As you walk through the campus, the long, low-slung buildings seem to slip past one another like barges.
Mies himself considered Crown Hall, the architecture school's home, to be his finest work. This templelike structure, its interior uninterrupted by columns, did express his reverence for his art form. And I suspect that his attachment derived from the building's function as much as from its form. To a degree this was the ultimate 20th-century factory: an assembly line for minds, the uncharitable might say. Essentially Mies passed on to his students the fruits of his own creative search rather than instilling them with the hunger to conduct searches of his own. He was known to growl, grunt or sweep drawings to the floor if, say, a pencil wasn't properly sharpened. 
Mies's desire to pass on the result of his labor is understandable. In the course of his own process he had eliminated overt signs of self from the completed product. That product did indeed appear to be "the will of the age translated into space," so much so that it became the supreme model for corporations to emulate, in skylines everywhere.
But you can't expect other artists to swim in your own river of no return.
The expressive power of Mies's buildings resulted from the individual path he had taken to arrive at them. Others couldn't replicate Mies's refinements because they couldn't know what those refinements signified to him. They had no acquaintance with the substance being refined. They hadn't lived through the Weimar years. They lacked Mies's interior life.
When you look at the small drawings of Mies designing, say, a screw, you understand that something more than an I-beam will be screwed down. The beam has become a sculpture, an architectonic version of Kolbe's Barcelona figure, and an expression, through Kolbe and through Mies's X-beams, to the saints of architectural memory. 
There is a photograph in the Whitney show of a corner inside the Illinois Institute's minerals and metals research building. A metallic turbine hunches on the floor at the foot of a vertical black I-beam. For some the picture will evoke "The Virgin and the Dynamo," Henry Adams's symbolic image of the Old and New World gods he beheld at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair.
The fair was important, Adams said, because its Beaux-Arts buildings represented the first attempt by the United States to attain cultural unity. Mies was the legitimate heir to that same cultural impulse, but with a different vocabulary and on an international scale. Unity is what he was screwing down: of past and present, form and structure, technology and art, interior and exterior, perception and reality.
Mies has been much picked over by critics searching for flaws. His building skins do not truthfully express the structures beneath. They are not so rational after all. Glass does not actually dissolve the borders between inside and out. But none of this matters very much, and that is a problem. The perfection of Mies's buildings is a very big problem. Only deities, or the architects of buildings consecrated to them, should rise to this level. And it may seem a desecration actually to inhabit such structures.
The spiritual dimension of Mies's architecture, that is a problem. These shows both reinforce the idea that Mies's buildings are thresholds to the afterlife, purification chambers where human camels prepare to pass through the eye of a needle. To many of the living, the effort may not seem worth it. Best to enjoy your stuff and pack your bags for hell or Capri.
I don't doubt the presence of eschatology in Mies's thinking. It seems clear that the totemic power of the cross-column exceeded its structural value. But the religious dimension was one of many. Formal, sociological, political, psychological, historical and scientific ideas were also at play. And I believe these ideas were organized toward one particular ambition: to visualize the possibility that a self could find a place in our fleeting modern world. As these shows indicate, place is process, and modernity is continuous.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An architecture review in Weekend last Friday about two exhibitions of work by Mies van der Rohe referred incorrectly to the world's fair that inspired "The Dynamo and the Virgin," a chapter of "The Education of Henry Adams," to which a photograph of a metallic turbine in "Mies in America" at the Whitney Museum of American Art was compared. It was the 1900 World Exposition in Paris, not the Chicago World's Fair of 1893.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two by Mies: A large detail of Thomas Ruff's photograph of the Hermann Lange House, at the Modern; below, Ezra Stoller's view of the plaza from inside the Seagram Building, at the Whitney. (Zwirner & Wirth/Museum of Modern Art); (Whitney Museum of American Art)(pg. E25); A 1928 photomontage by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe of a bank and office building project in Stuttgart, Germany, part of "Mies in Berlin" at the Museum of Modern Art, billed as the first in-depth look at Mies's early career. (Museum of Modern Art); Two photographs from the exhibition at the Whitney: the Farnsworth House in Plano, Ill., above, a weekend retreat designed by Mies; right, Mies in his Chicago apartment in 1964. (Guido Guidi/Whitney Museum of American Art); (Whitney Museum of American Art)(pg. E27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); PAINTING (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%) ARCHITECTURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC); WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (NYC) 

PERSON: MIES VAN DER ROHE, LUDWIG (1886-1969); MUSCHAMP, HERBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



550 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: AUTOS ON FRIDAY/Design; 
All Aboard? Designers Want to Put Generation Y in Box Cars

BYLINE:  By PHIL PATTON 

 BODY:
THE decidedly youngish crowd filing into the blink-182 concert at Roseland in New York a few weeks ago wore spiky hair and baggy pants. T-shirts bearing parodies of logos and brands were much in evidence. Tide became Jive; Snickers became Slackers. Honda had sponsored blink-182's tour and raffled off a silver Civic coupe, featuring the band's logo, which stood in front of the hall.
 But even with the blink-182 band logo, and even if, as Honda reports, a third of the model's buyers are under 23, the crisp lines of the Civic seemed jarringly out of sync with the crowd. That may be why Honda has a very different looking vehicle in development. 
 Its Model X, a design study making the rounds of major auto shows this year, is one of several boxy concept vehicles with a good chance of going into production soon. Mazda's Secret Hideout and Nissan's Chappo have both come up with the same straight-walled, flat-floored shape as the Model X. 
The box cars developed out of concerns by automakers that they were losing touch with younger buyers. In Japan, Toyota's 1999 Will car aimed to "hit a funky groove," according to its ads and be "a place to hang out." It was designed around the metaphor of an old-time carriage. Another early example was the Ford 24-7 group of concept cars shown two years ago in Detroit. Isuzu and Suzuki have vaguely boxy concepts under consideration.
The box cars reflect how companies are aiming at Generation Y, the echo boomers, the 70 million buyers Honda's researchers estimate make up the biggest demographic bulge since the baby boomers arrived after World War II. Automakers are concerned and uneasy about this group, eager to grab a piece of the new demographic. They are a hard sell -- young people who, market surveys show, have short memories for brands, fickle tastes and a high degree of skepticism toward traditional sales pitches. "Gen why," is another of the nicknames researchers have coined. The box cars, with their almost generic shapes, are a turn away from the sell of sleek and sexy shape.
Inside Roseland, the buyers Honda is looking for were crushed together in the mosh pit on the floor during the concert. Media messages these days tend to be similarly compacted. The mosh pit may be a good metaphor for the sort of media overload the auto companies are trying to break out of to reach the younger buyers.
True, young people have always shown a fondness for certain types of basic, boxy vehicles, from Volkswagen Microbuses to Jeep Wranglers. These may be the jeans and T-shirts of the automotive world, perennially in fashion. But the new box cars are inspired by recent research. Some findings are provided in reports from consultants, like Auto Pacific's "Automotive Generation Y Consultancy and Future Attribute Demand and Segmentation Study."
Others come from more hands-on research, undertaken with anthropological thoroughness and attendant hardships. To create the Model X, a Honda team of 20-somethings led by Tim Benner and Eric Schumaker went surfing, mountain biking and camping with the young males in the target demographic. Nissan undertook similar immersive research in Japan.
Honda, Mazda and Nissan all came to similar conclusions in their research. One finding was that young people are looking less and less for subcompacts like the Civic on display at Roseland. These youth place socializing at the top of their values, the research suggested, and think of a vehicle first as a container, a space where people socialize and things are stored, and only secondarily as a mode of transportation.
The box is the container in basic form. Thus, the Model X features center-opening doors with no pillar in between and a flat, washable floor -- a kind of college dorm room on wheels, the designers said. The Model X can hold sports gear or party paraphernalia.
Other box cars emphasize their cargo utility. Ford's 24-7 pickup model, said J. Mays, the Ford design chief, "was designed to be like a backpack." In the Chappo, Japanese designers for Nissan took a very high-minded view of the idea that the box is a living as well as a storage space. Aiming at a generation of affluent Japanese buyers in their 20's, the Chappo's designers said they imagined a car for socializing, designed "from the inside out." Because it is conceived as a living space, it takes elements of a traditional Japanese home like circular windows, tatami mats and shoji screens. The Chappo's boxy architecture, said its interior designer, Kaoru Satou, allowed for more headroom and larger doors.
The Model X was conceived to "withstand the worst a young guy can throw at it -- mud, blood, sweat and spills," Mr. Benner said. The flat floor is easy to clean.
The Secret Hideout also has seats that fold flat. "It is intended as a place to relax," said Phil Martens, managing director in charge of product strategy, design and product development at Mazda. "It gives young drivers and their friends a place that they can call their own."
Mr. Martens led a team of planners in their early 20's, who also forswore the focus group to immerse themselves in the lives of young people in Tokyo.
These were "bubble kids," who had grown up cynical, their outlooks shaped by the sagging Japanese economy. Most lived at home and looked forward to a less certain life than their parents. Mr. Martens and his team found that a car was not as high among their priorities as it was for previous generations.
"On a scale of 1 to 10," Mr. Martens said, "the automobile was about 12. A mobile phone was like, No. 2."
What the younger buyers wanted in a vehicle was space away from their parents, generic space they could customize to reflect their own lifestyles. "Brand equity didn't matter," he said. "In fact, it could be a negative."
Mazda will introduce the Secret Hideout at the Tokyo auto show this fall. No decision has been made about possible sale of the car in the United States, but Mr. Martens says many of the trends it reflects will eventually show up in Europe and the United States.
In addition to direct research, automotive researchers are looking at "big ideas." Honda product planners have been influenced by the theories of Neil Howe and William Strauss, who in books like "Generations: The History of America's Future, 1584 to 2069" and "Millennials Rising: The Next Great Generation" try to interpret all of American social and political history through generations. (That one of these authors, Mr. Strauss, is also director of the Washington Capitol Steps satirical troupe is just a coincidence.)
Their books are full of talk about cohort groups and charts where generations are neatly fitted into boxes.
For an older generation, such techniques may recall another era of panicky generational marketing, one that gave us the Levi Strauss Gremlin and vehicles with groovy names like the Dodge Swinger and Chevy Luv.
Putting generations in boxes is a risky business. Fitting generations into boxes is just the sort of technique Generation Y is supposed to be skeptical about.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mazda's Secret Hideout, above, is meant for relaxation, and the Honda X is like a dorm room on wheels.; Nissan's Chappo was conceived as a living space. (Associated Press); A Ford 24-7 station wagon concept car. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (90%); CONCEPT CARS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); GENERATION Y (86%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); WORLD WAR II (62%) AUTOMOBILES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; DESIGN 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (56%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); 7201 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%)

PERSON: PATTON, PHIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%); JAPAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



551 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: I.L.O. Code Would Protect Employees With H.I.V. 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
The International Labor Organization, in a campaign to fight workplace discrimination against people infected with the AIDS virus, is expected to adopt a code of conduct today for businesses, governments and workers.
 The policy will also propose benefits for victims and their families, agency officials said. 
 Juan Somavia, the Chilean human rights lawyer and former diplomat who is now director general of the I.L.O., called the code a "comprehensive blueprint for workplace policy on AIDS." 
The code of conduct drafted by the organization, a United Nations body based in Geneva, will be presented to a special General Assembly session on AIDS beginning on Monday in New York. 
International AIDS experts have argued that is essential to deal with the effects of the epidemic in offices, factories and even informal work sites for economic as well as medical and social reasons.
"H.I.V.-AIDS is a major threat to the world of work," the new I.L.O. policy says. "It is affecting the most productive segment of the labor force and reducing earnings, and it is imposing huge costs on enterprises in all sectors through declining productivity, increasing labor costs and loss of skills and experience."
Mr. Somavia said that at least 23 million people between 15 and 49 were infected with the virus. "AIDS is not only a workplace issues but also a challenge to development worldwide," he said.
In many countries, people who are H.I.V. positive can lose jobs, social standing and even medical care. Attitudes vary widely. In Thailand, for for instance, concern about AIDS in the military helped propel effective government policies. In India, on the other hand, officials take the position that soldiers who test positive will be dismissed and that the disease does not exist in the armed forces, an assertion Indian and international AIDS experts reject. 
Fear of AIDS in many countries often leads to the denial of fundamental rights on the job, the organization found. The epidemic's social effects include more exploitation of women and child workers.
Moreover, in poor countries, including many in Africa and Asia where health systems cannot cope, the only hope most people may have of getting help with prevention and treatment will be at work, Peter Piot, the director of Unaids, said in a recent interview. He added that employers were also learning that they would pay a price in lost labor if they did not join in battling the disease. Several corporations have taken this step in Africa, he said.
In the United States, AIDS and H.I.V. infection are considered disabilities under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Federal courts have ruled that the act prohibits employers from discriminating in hiring, firing, promotion or any other action against people with AIDS or H.I.V.
The act also requires employers to make reasonable accommodations to enable people with AIDS or H.I.V. to continue working so long as they can perform their essential job functions. Employers in the United States cannot ask job applicants whether they are infected with AIDS and cannot require applicants to take an H.I.V. antibody test.
The I.L.O. code, directed at governments, employers and workers' organizations -- all of them would have to play roles in turning the policy into law -- proposes a number of rights. Among them are these: 
*"There is no justification for asking job applicants or workers to disclose H.I.V.-related personal information."
*"H.I.V. infection is not a cause for termination of employment."
*"All workers, including workers with H.I.V., are entitled to affordable health services." 
The Labor Oraganization urges governments to ensure that national laws governing benefits in time of illness are fully extended to H.I.V. patients. Labor laws should be revised where necessary to deal with this exceptional disease, it says. A grievance procedure should be instituted in places of work, and disciplinary measures should be brought against anyone discriminating against an employee with H.I.V.
Prevention is considered an essential part of a workplace program in the new code. "To support behavioral change by individuals," it says, "employers should also make available, where appropriate, male and female condoms, counseling, care support and referral services."
Employers are asked to train workers who may come in contact with blood or other body fluids in what are called the "universal precautions" to protect the uninfected. Those measures, devised in 1985 by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, teach self-protection and the handling of possibly contaminated materials. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (95%); EMPLOYMENT (93%); ETHICS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); VIRUSES (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); AIDS POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); WOMEN (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (64%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (62%); DISABLED ACCESS (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; LABOR; DISCRIMINATION 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (83%) INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION; UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); THAILAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



552 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 YEN DROPS. The yen fell on concern the government's proposals to cut spending and push banks to write off loans would slow Japan's economy. In New York, the dollar settled at 124.42 yen, up from 123.74 on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the yen to the dollar, since December 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); BUDGETS (87%); TRENDS (82%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CREDIT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (73%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



553 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Weak Demand Helps Reduce Trade Deficit 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21 

 BODY:
The trade deficit narrowed in April as imports of business equipment, consumer goods and other items fell more than exports, government figures showed today.
 The trade gap in goods and services decreased to $32.2 billion from a revised $33.1 billion in March, the Commerce Department said. The deficit had narrowed to $28.6 billion in February, the smallest gap since January 2000. 
 Reduced demand for imported goods and the second consecutive monthly decline in exports underscore the sluggish performance of the United States economy, which is spilling over to its trading partners.
"This is just another sign of a weakening economy," said Avery Shenfeld, a senior economist at CIBC World Markets Inc. in Toronto. "When trade is falling in both directions, that is a sign that both domestic and foreign demand are falling."
Analysts had expected a trade deficit of $31 billion in April, compared with the $31.2 billion deficit originally reported for March.
Imports fell 2.2 percent, to $119.1 billion, after a 2.3 percent rise in March. The decline reflected the biggest decrease in demand for business equipment since November 1999. Exports were off 2 percent, to $86.9 billion, after falling 1.9 percent a month earlier. The April decrease was led by business equipment and industrial supplies.
The deficit for April is higher than the $31.7 billion monthly average for the first three months of the year.
A separate report from the Labor Department showed first-time jobless claims fell to a level that still suggested a weak labor market. Claims fell 34,000, to 400,000 last week. Claims have been at 400,000 or higher for five consecutive weeks, the longest since the five weeks ended in September 1992.
Through April, the trade deficit totaled $127.2 billion, compared with $116.8 billion during the first four months of last year. The trade deficit set a record of $375.7 billion in 2000.
A separate report showed the current account deficit, the broadest measure of international trade because it includes investment, narrowed to $109.6 billion in the first quarter from $116.3 billion in the fourth quarter.
The deficit with Japan widened to $6.4 billion in April from $6.2 billion during March. The shortfall with China widened to $6.3 billion from $5.7 billion. The gap with Canada widened to $4.6 billion, while with Mexico it narrowed to $2.2 billion. The deficit with Western Europe was wider, at $5.8 billion.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Balance of Trade"Deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. April 2001Balance: -$32.17Imports: 119.09Exports: 86.92(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

COMPANY: CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (56%) ONTARIO, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); CANADA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



554 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Shlunkendorf Journal; 
To Mesmerize a German, You Take Asparagus . . .

BYLINE:  By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: SCHLUNKENDORF, Germany 

 BODY:
Schlunkendorf is not a name evocative of things of beauty, but the white asparagus that grows here is beautiful indeed and has ignited passions that Germans tend to reserve for music.
 In nearby Kahnsdorf, another village besotted by the succulent shoots, the menu at the only restaurant offers: cream of asparagus soup, asparagus on toast with cheese, scrambled eggs with asparagus, asparagus with boiled potatoes and a hollandaise sauce, pork or veal schnitzel with asparagus, asparagus with salmon, or an asparagus salad. 
 Here in the flat hinterland of Berlin, and in the capital itself, life has a single focus during the months of May and June: the noble, delicate, faintly sweet stalks known to Germans as the "vegetable of kings." Menus amount to the annals of asparagus. The choice is simple enough: asparagus or asparagus. 
Habitual concerns -- a weak euro, wet weather, wayward driving, where to take the next vacation -- are cast aside as what they call der Spargel brings out the wacky side in Germans, causing them to nix their worries and wax poetic. Out the window go darkness and discipline as the Faustian divisions of the German soul are bared. 
"People just go crazy," said Manfred Schmidt, a grower who recently opened an asparagus museum in Schlunkendorf. "Perhaps it's the way asparagus signals the spring and a change of season after the long winter." Certainly, after months of pork, cabbage and split-pea soup, the lightness of asparagus amounts to a succulent salvation.
Kolya Kleeberg, a chef at the top Berlin restaruant Vau, explained the local passion by saying Germany, and particularly the Beelitz region near Berlin, simply grows the world's best asparagus. "Like the grapes that produce great wines, the best asparagus must struggle a little against the soil," he suggested. "That is the case here."
Perhaps. What is certain is that the renaissance of the Beelitz area, in whose heart lies little Schlunkendorf, amounts to a rare story of successful cooperation between east and west Germans. When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, just 25 acres were planted with asparagus in this area of the former East Germany; today there are 16,000 acres. 
Their cultivation -- the source of Berlin's current asparagus mania -- offers intriguing evidence that Germans are no longer ready to dig for their supper if Poles are prepared to do the digging for them.
The digging is particularly strenuous because Germans have no time for the green asparagus favored in the United States, which is dismissed as easier to grow and pick, but coarse, unsubtle and plebeian. To keep the vegetable white, the asparagus bed must be earthed up into mounds and the shoots cut just as they appear at the surface.
This is hard work that cannot be automated. Green asparagus, by contrast, grows above the ground.
In the fields near Schlunkendorf, on a farm owned by Petra Falkental, Robert Bulag from Wroclaw, Poland, leads a group of 40 Poles dragging small one-wheeled carts through the furrows betweeen the mounds. In the distance stand several blue transportable toilet cabins for the migrant workers.
When the Poles see an asparagus tip dislodging the soil, they dig down and cut the shoot with a long implement. The soil must then be replaced to ensure that others grow equally white. A tip exposed to the air quickly turns violet.
"Working seven days a week is much too tough for the Germans," explained Mr. Bulag, who has been organizing the transport of what he called his "brigades" of workers to this farm for the past six years. "But my people are happy with the money."
Workers are paid one mark (43 cents) for every kilogram (2.2 pounds) of asparagus picked. Picking up to 50 kilos a day, most make about $1,300 during the two months they spend in Germany. A few skilled pickers make much more.
"Without the Poles, our business would not exist," said Ms. Falkental, who worked for the East German medical insurance system before transforming herself into an asparagus entrepreneur. "The Germans do not want to do this." During the picking season, over 1,500 Poles pour into the area with temporary work permits.
Mr. Schmidt, the grower who has created a museum filled with silver asparagus servers, ornate asparagus plates, porcelain asparagus models and other bric-a-brac, is dismissive of the modern German. The country, he says, has become a "social hammock." People get $1,000 a month or more for doing nothing through various unemployment and social benefits. "So why pick asparagus?" he asked.
Why indeed. Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, who recently took his cabinet for an asparagus fest on a boat cruising Berlin's lakes, provoked a storm last month by calling Germans lazy. He has also caused a storm by saying Germany needs foreign workers. Asparagus production suggests the chancellor may have a point.
The Beelitz boom also suggests that divisions between the people of the west and east -- Wessis and Ossis -- are not insuperable after all. After Germany was unified, western businessmen from North Rhine-Westphalia but also Canada started flocking to the area, lured by the fame of Beelitz, an area already known a century ago as having a sandy soil ideal for asparagus.
Some, like Jorg Buschmann and Ernst-August Winkelmann, set up thriving asparagus farms. Watching this influx, said Mr. Schmidt, the locals began to ask themselves: "If Wessis can do this, why can't we?"
He founded the Beelitz Union of Asparagus Growers in 1991. Advice was sought from other German asparagus growers in areas including Bavaria. He even compared notes with George Lang, the asparagus-loving owner of New York's Cafe des Artistes. Over $10 million was invested in production. The rest is history.
Ossis and Wessis now get on famously in Schlunkendorf and the surrounding area. Indeed the worst competitive tensions are between the Buschmann-Winkelmann firm and another Wessi enterprise run by the Simiane family.
As for Berliners, all they care about is having asparagus on the table. "It's just understood now that in May and June, you get asparagus overload in Berlin," said Brian McBride, the owner of the trendy McBride's bistro. "As a restaurateur, you have to serve asparagus."
So he does. With prosciutto, for example. Or with a salad and grilled chicken. Or boiled with butter and parsley. Or with new potatoes. Wash any of these dishes down with a crisp German Riesling, and Germany -- for at least a moment -- may actually come to resemble the land of milk and honey.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Petra Falkental, left, selling asparagus to a woman from Berlin. She has hired 40 Poles to harvest the crop. (Stefan Doblinger for The New York Times) Map of Germany highlighting Schlunkendorf: An asparagus museum has recently been opened in Shlunkendorf.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (51%) ASPARAGUS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (95%) GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) SCHLUNKENDORF (GERMANY); BEELITZ (GERMANY); GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



555 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
I Love the E.U.

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
More and more these days when I return home from trips abroad and my wife asks me how it was, I find myself answering, "You know, honey, the wheels aren't on tight out there." 
 That is to say, more and more countries in Asia, Africa, even Central Europe feel like messy states, where the new institutions of free markets, democracy and the rule of law have not quite taken root, and just below the surface you find a web of corruption, criminality, mafia and a striking absence of any rule of law. Visit Russia or Indonesia today and you'll get a flavor of what I mean. 
 This has led me to a new opinion: I am now officially declaring my total affection and support for the European Union. I love the E.U. I wish there were two. May it go from strength to strength. 
Why? Because the E.U., with its 15 member states, is building itself into a loose version of the "United States of Europe," with a common currency and regulatory structure. And in this world of increasingly messy states, for us to have another version of the United States across the Atlantic that basically shares our democratic values, free markets and respect for the rule of law is hugely valuable. 
Indeed, the E.U. is the ideal U.S. ally today, because it is economically strong enough to play an important role in stabilizing messy states in Western Europe, Russia, Central Europe and even North Africa, by nurturing these regions toward democracy and capitalism. But it is politically divided enough, particularly on foreign policy, not to pose any serious challenge to U.S. global leadership. Such a deal. What's not to like?
"The E.U. has become a major magnet for democracy and economic reform in Central and Eastern Europe," notes Heather Grabbe, director of research at the London-based Center for European Reform. "Without the E.U., these countries could have had a very difficult exit from Communism. The E.U. has provided a model for reform that these countries can follow, and the E.U. membership process -- the prospect of joining the E.U. -- has given them all a reason to continue reforming their tax systems and public administrations, even through changes of government and a lot of pain." 
Indeed, the E.U. program for enlarging itself from 15 to 25 states -- starting with Hungary, Estonia, Latvia, Slovenia and the Czech Republic -- has made it the finishing school for post-Communist countries, not to mention a massive marketplace to trade with. The E.U.'s 300 million-person market is a major source of investment into the U.S., a major consumer of American exports and a major prop for the world economy, when Japan and the U.S. sag.
But while the E.U. has moved a long way toward forging a common market, it is still a long, long way from having common political structure or foreign policy. Sovereignty and national pride still get in the way. Indeed, the more the E.U. unites economically, the more countries cling to their own distinct political identities. 
As I said, this could be ideal from the U.S. point of view -- if it restrains the E.U.'s foreign policy, but not if it paralyzes the E.U. so it can't act at all on the world stage. The fact that Ireland, which has become wealthy thanks to E.U. membership, just voted against the E.U.'s Nice Treaty paving the way for E.U. enlargement to Eastern Europe, is a warning sign that while people in Europe like what the E.U. has done for their wallets, they don't want to see their national identities turned into Euro-mush, by Euro-bureaucrats paid in Euro-dollars from the Euro-Parliament.
My guess is that they will sort this out, which is why we should keep our eyes on the prize. That means continuing to encourage E.U. integration and keeping our troops in the Balkans (for now), if for no other reason than that it will stabilize this region so the rest of Europe can get on with forging closer ties.
Yes, we will disagree with the E.U. on certain trade and merger issues (like the E.U.'s refusal to sanction the G.E.-Honeywell merger). Yes, we will compete. Yes, the E.U. will annoy the U.S. on certain foreign policy matters. Yes, its version of capitalism will always stress social welfare more than ours. But on the really big stuff -- how to organize a society and whether to fight the really bad guys like Slobo and Saddam -- the E.U. is turning into an American twin, albeit not an identical one. That's a really good thing, because in this messy world we're living in, two United States are better than one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); POLITICS (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); CURRENCIES (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (53%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); JAPAN (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LATVIA (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



556 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Will This Slowdown Spare Housing, or Just Hit It Late? 

BYLINE:  By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
THIS time, it is different.
 Industrial production is plunging, and layoffs are soaring. The National Bureau of Economic Research, the official arbiter of business cycles, says a recession may have already begun. 
 If so, the first recession of this century is different from every other downturn of the last 50 years. 
That difference can be seen in the housing market, which is going along just fine, thank you. The National Association of Home Builders said this week that its housing index is up from a year ago and about double what it was in the last recession, in the early 1990's.
That news is no surprise on Wall Street, where housing stocks have risen sharply since the Nasdaq bubble burst. But it is not what economists are used to. By post-World War II standards, this is a backward economic cycle.
A normal recession is preceded by inflation, which leads the Federal Reserve to push up interest rates, which devastates housing, the most economically sensitive of industries, before the rest of the economy succumbs.
None of that happened this time. The inflation of the recent boom was in assets, not consumer prices, and it led to a huge overinvestment in capital equipment as telecommunications companies wasted billions of dollars in laying thousands of miles of excess fiber optic capacity. Now the collapse of capital spending is leading to rising unemployment and an economic slowdown.
Lower interest rates are the main reason housing has not suffered, but an expensive rental market has also encouraged renters to buy. Rental costs rose 4.5 percent in the 12 months ended in May, the highest since rental inflation peaked at 4.6 percent in September 1990, a few months after the last recession began.
Housing strength also reflects surprisingly resilient consumer confidence. Memories have faded of the early 1990's, when housing prices fell in some markets. Faith in real estate as an investment remains strong.
The stock market assumes that the Fed will continue its cuts in interest rates next week, and that the cuts will bring on revival later this year. And it clearly believes that lower rates will stimulate housing, as they always have.
That seems far too optimistic. Whether housing can keep going in the face of rising layoffs is an open question. Housing is traditionally a leading indicator of the economy, but when wealth is the issue, it can react slowly. The early-'90's bear market in New York real estate came a few years after the 1987 stock market crash.
Housing may keep on chugging. But it will not be the engine of recovery. "There is not much upside potential as far as home sales go," said John Lonski, Moody's chief economist. "At best, it helps keep us out of recession, as opposed to igniting another surge in economic growth."
Robert Barbera, the chief economist of Hoenig & Company, argues that housing can stay on the sidelines for the rest of this cycle. "We've had six months of sharp declines in industrial production, with housing going sideways," he said. "Why can't that continue? It is the traditional engine for the boom-bust cycle, but it was neither the culprit during the boom nor the casualty in this cycle."
Still, in this backward downturn, housing might just weaken at the end of the slide, rather than at the start. It makes sense for the Fed to keep easing, but since this downturn is different, there is no certainty that the medicine of lower interest rates will work as it has in the past.

GRAPHIC: Chart shows percent change of Bloomberg Home Builders Index and Nasdaq Index since March 10, 2000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); RECESSION (92%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (67%); FIBER OPTICS (66%); WORLD WAR II (54%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: HOENIG & CO LTD (60%); HOENIG & CO INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (84%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



557 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Yugoslavia Stalls on Aiding War Crimes Court 

BYLINE:  By CARLOTTA GALL 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, June 21 

 BODY:
Opposition from its Montenegrin partners forced the Yugoslav government today to withdraw a bill regulating cooperation with the international war crimes tribunal, a move that might actually hasten the extradition of former President Slobodan Milosevic.
 Mr. Milosevic and four of his allies were indicted by the tribunal in The Hague in May 1999 on charges related to crimes committed by Serbian security forces during the war over Kosovo. 
 The failure to pass the law may force Belgrade's new leaders, who came to power after a popular revolt ousted Mr. Milosevic in October, to send him or another prominent indicted war criminal to The Hague to obtain badly needed foreign aid when major donors meet next week. 
The United States conditioned its participation in the donors' conference in Brussels on June 29 on Yugoslavia's cooperation with The Hague, and the Yugoslav president, Vojislav Kostunica, promised Washington last month that the law on cooperating with The Hague would pass. There is a sense of crisis within the leadership now it is clear that the Parliament will not pass the law. The authorities are facing growing discontent at home as economic pressures increase, and they had hoped to raise $1 billion at the conference -- a target that seems impossible without American participation.
Members of the ruling alliance which ousted Mr. Milosevic were meeting late tonight to decide what to do. Some ministers are calling for urgent action -- with or without the law -- to prove the government's determination to cooperate with tribunal. Belgrade is rife with rumors about an impending extradition of Mr. Milosevic, and reports in the news media in recent weeks have seemed intended to prime Serbs, who once supported the former president and tolerated or endured his rule for 13 years, to accept that he is an accused war criminal.
The Serbian prime minister, Zoran Djindjic, is insisting on decisive action. "We cannot stall any longer," he said. "We have to take decisive measures within the next week." 
Bratislav Grubacic, editor of the VIP news agency in Belgrade, said, "The nervousness in the government is unbelievable, the budget is quite empty."
"They are going to have to do something," he said, agreeing with newspaper reports that Mr. Djindjic is preparing to extradite some high-level indictees very soon.
Mr. Djindjic's government has in recent weeks revealed to the press powerful evidence of war crimes committed in Kosovo and of a cover-up orchestrated by Mr. Milosevic. The campaign has provided the public with its first irrefutable evidence that war crimes were committed in Kosovo. Mr. Grubacic said these reports had swayed Serbs who previously opposed extradition. 
This week, Serbia's interior minister, Dusan Mihajlovic, said that the police had now found three mass graves containing bodies thought to be civilians from Kosovo. The graves are thought to contain up to 1,000 bodies, Serbia's justice minister, Vladan Batic, said today.
Mr. Djindjic and others are also insisting that Gen. Nebojsa Pavkovic be removed as head of the Yugoslav Army. They accuse the general, a former ally of Mr. Milosevic, who was in command during the war in Kosovo, of obstructing cooperation with the international community.
Mr. Kostunica had insisted on the need for the law to regularize cooperation, despite arguments from the tribunal and other Serbian leaders that it was unnecessary.
Yet lawmakers from Montenegro, the small republic that with Serbia forms Yugoslavia, refused to back the law. The parliamentary session was postponed for one more day on Wednesday to allow for last minute negotiations, but the Montenegrin partners of the Yugoslav government, the Socialist People's Party, are former allies of Mr. Milosevic, and they remained firm in their opposition to the extradition of Yugoslav citizens to the tribunal.
Dragoljub Micunovic, chairman of the lower house of the Yugoslav Parliament, said the bill was being withdrawn and the government would have to find another way to proceed. "This country is going to cooperate with the international community or it will go bankrupt," Mr. Micunovic said today.
The majority of the leaders of the ruling alliance support active cooperation with the tribunal and want to find a way to start, Mr. Batic, the justice minister, said this evening.
"We have lost so much precious time," he said, "and we have lost credibility with the international community." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTRADITION (93%); WAR CRIMES (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (71%) EXTRADITION; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOREIGN AID; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GALL, CARLOTTA; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (94%) SERBIA (99%); NETHERLANDS (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MONTENEGRO (92%) SERBIA; HAGUE (NETHERLANDS); KOSOVO (SERBIA)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



558 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Micrel Warns on Profit 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif., June 21 

 BODY:
 Micrel Inc., which makes chips used in cell phones, computers and fiber optic equipment, said second-quarter profit would fall more than expected after orders declined. Micrel will break even in the second quarter or have a "slightly positive" profit, excluding acquisition-related costs of $10 million, the company said in a statement. 
Micrel had been expected to earn 5 cents a share, the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call. It was the second consecutive quarter that Micrel reduced its profit estimate. Chip makers are slowing production and laying off workers as customers use inventories that grew amid a slowdown in economic growth. Shares of Micrel, based in San Jose, declined $2.61, to $25.20. Shares have dropped 49 percent in the last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (88%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (88%); ELECTRONICS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); LAYOFFS (87%); SEMICONDUCTORS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; FIBER OPTICS 

COMPANY: MICREL INC (97%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MICREL INC 

TICKER: MCRL (NASDAQ) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (97%) SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (85%) CALIFORNIA, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



559 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Court Reverses Ruling On a U.P.S. Tax Shelter
A federal appeals court reversed a 1999 ruling that United Parcel Service engaged in sham transactions to avoid hundreds of millions of dollars in corporate income taxes.
 The decision was the second in a week by a federal appeals court rejecting government efforts to tear down corporate tax shelters. Together, tax experts say, the rulings articulate a doctrine giving companies broad freedom to shelter income from taxes. Page A1. 

Liberty Media in German Cable Deal
To further expand its holdings overseas, Liberty Media, controlled by John C. Malone, is acquiring cable TV systems with 10 million subscribers from Deutsche Telekom for about $4.7 billion. Liberty and Deutsche Telekom did not disclose the precise terms of the deal, which the companies said were still being negotiated. Analysts were generally enthusiastic about the deal, but investors were less optimistic. Shares of Liberty Media fell 46 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $16.19. C2.

Offers Received for Magazines
Emap, the British publishing company, received formal bids -- the largest slightly more than $550 million -- for its United States magazine business, which includes titles like Motor Trend, Hot Rod and Teen. C2.

Stocks Rise on Hopes for a Rate Cut
Stocks rose modestly as investors pinned their hopes on another interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 68.10 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,715.43. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 13.90 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,237.04. The Nasdaq composite index added 27.52 points, or 1.4 percent, to 2,058.76. C6.

Bid System Could Be Used for AIDS
The price of drugs for tuberculosis fell by more than one-third when the World Health Organization set up a system for buying them in bulk and asked drug companies to compete to offer the best price. The reductions are significant because the system could serve as a model for buying AIDS drugs for Africa and other developing countries. C4.

New Drugs Expected for Psoriasis
New drugs made using biotechnology will soon offer what could be the first safe, long-term treatments for psoriasis, doctors at a conference devoted to the disease said. C4.

Trade Deficit Narrowed in April
The trade deficit narrowed in April as imports of business equipment, consumer goods and other items fell more than exports, government figures showed. The trade gap in goods and services decreased to $32.2 billion from a revised $33.1 billion in March, the Commerce Department said. The deficit had narrowed to $28.6 billion in February, the smallest gap since January 2000. C6.

Insurer Cuts a Deal With Opponents
Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, which has been seeking permission from New York State to convert to a for-profit company, has made a giant leap toward that goal by striking a deal with the main opponents of the plan. A1.

Flaws Seen in Hot Lines for Recalls
A consumer advocacy group said that 18 percent of the 595 hot lines set up for recalled children's products since 1990 no longer functioned properly. The Consumer Product Safety Commission said it would begin forcing companies that recall products to maintain consumer phone lines indefinitely. C6.

Morgan Stanley Profit Falls 36%
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter said that its profit fell 36 percent in the second quarter of its fiscal year as a slump in stocks slowed underwriting, mergers and equity trading. Nevertheless, the earnings beat estimates. C6.

Nuanced Fight Over Euro in Britain
A nuanced conflict is taking place in Britain between the government and businesses leaders that could stall the nation's adoption of the euro. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart shows the balance of trade since Nov. 2000. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,715.43 up 68.10Nasdaq composite -- 2,058.76 up 27.5210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.17% down 0.03The euro -- $0.8548 Unch.The dollar -- 124.42 yen up 0.68

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (86%); EXPORT PRICES (86%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); AIDS & HIV (71%); PUBLISHING (70%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); DRUG PRICES (68%); ANTIVIRALS (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); PSORIASIS (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); TUBERCULOSIS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (61%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (60%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (57%); EMAP PLC (55%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (58%); DTE (FRA) (57%); DTE (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



560 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Franks Proposes an Overhaul of New Jersey's Property Taxes 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 21 

 BODY:
Tackling the nettlesome issue of high property taxes for the first time in his campaign for governor, Bob Franks today proposed freezing tax assessments for as long as people own their homes, a change that could revolutionize the way municipalities and school districts finance operations.
 Mr. Franks, the former representative who is running for the Republican nomination, also proposed to hold increases in property tax rates to the rate of inflation. Both measures would require an amendment to the State Constitution. 
 Mr. Franks's plan came with four days left until the Republican primary, at a time when Bret D. Schundler, the mayor of Jersey City, has opened up a wide lead among likely voters, according to the most recent poll. Mr. Schundler has made lower property taxes a priority in the campaign. Mr. Franks said he had planned to unveil his property tax plan shortly after the primary.
"For too long, New Jersey homeowners have been at the mercy of local governments who order re-evaluations just to raise more tax revenue," Mr. Franks said. Under his plan, homes would be assessed at the purchase price, and never again. Now, state law requires reassessments at least once every 10 years.
The plan raises a number of questions, not least whether it would penalize new arrivals in a community by taxing them on the market value of their property, subsidizing lifelong residents whose assessments had not kept up with market value.
Mr. Schundler said tonight that Mr. Franks's plan would penalize people for moving: "What is the rationale for that, if people want to get their child into a better school system, or to move to a better neighborhood, or closer to a job, or if a senior wants to move to a smaller house?"
Mr. Franks announced his tax plan even as the Election Law Enforcement Commission, meeting in Trenton, was handing Mr. Schundler a victory in a long-running campaign-finance dispute. It concerned $885,000 in advertisements that featured Mr. Schundler prominently last year, but were paid for by a scholarship fund he controls, not by his campaign. Mr. Franks argued that that amount should be deducted from Mr. Schundler's $5.9 million spending cap in the primary.
The commission accepted Mr. Schundler's reasoning that the ads should not count toward the cap because they ran before Jan. 1, the start of the primary campaign cycle. Mr. Schundler's aides called on Mr. Franks to stop running commercials that attack Mr. Schundler for "taking money from needy children" through the scholarship fund ads.
A lawyer for Mr. Franks, William E. Baroni Jr., said the commission's decision "blows a hole" in the state's decades-old public finance system.
"What has now been created is a world where a candidate for governor can open an allegedly charitable organization, spend a million dollars on television commercials on the eve of the start of the campaign, and say that has nothing to do with his gubernatorial campaign," he said.
Meanwhile, the Schundler campaign said supporters were reporting so-called push polls, in which people ostensibly polling voters asked questions aimed at influencing opinions. 
Deborah Wirths, a Republican committeewoman in Sussex County, said she was called at 5 p.m. Wednesday by a woman who asked her whom she would vote for on Tuesday; she said Mr. Schundler. Mrs. Wirths said the woman then asked: "If the race were tomorrow and you found out Schundler believed that people should be able to walk on the street with concealed guns, and that women who were victims of incest and rape were not allowed to have abortions, would you still vote for Schundler knowing these things?"
"That's when I said, 'Who's paying for this poll?' " Mrs. Wirths said. "She said, 'We're not allowed to know that information.' "
Charlie Smith, the Franks campaign manager, "categorically" denied "any involvement in any type of poll such as that." But, he added, "that message is similar to one that we believe as a campaign many voters deserve to know about Bret Schundler."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PROPERTY TAX (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX ASSESSORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); CHARITIES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



561 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Emap of Britain Draws Bids In Sale of U.S. Magazines 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
Emap, the British publishing company, received formal bids -- the largest slightly more than $550 million -- for its United States magazine business yesterday, including titles like Motor Trend and Teen, executives close to the auction said.
 The bidders included American Media, which publishes The National Enquirer; Primedia, which publishes Seventeen and New York magazine; AOL Time Warner; and the Texas Pacific Group, an investment firm with holdings ranging from J. Crew to Oxford Health Plans, the executives said. 
 Emap paid $1.5 billion for the magazines in 1998, with its purchase of Petersen Publishing. The magazine titles have struggled amid the economy's downturn and the subsequent advertising slump. 
Petersen Publishing was founded by Robert E. Petersen, who started Hot Rod in 1947. In the United States, Emap now publishes dozens of Petersen's enthusiast titles, including Skin Diver, Guns & Ammo and Snowboarder. FHM, a ribald men's magazine started by Emap after the purchase, is not included in the sale. 
In the last decade, Petersen has changed hands several times. In 1996, it was sold for $450 million to a group headed by D. Claeys Bahrenburg, with backing from Willis Stein & Partners L.P., a private equity fund based in Chicago. 
Over the next two years, James J. Dunning Jr., the chief executive, developed dozens of new enthusiast magazines -- niche titles as specific as Blue Corvette Magazine and Red Corvette Magazine -- and attracted advertisers by developing crossplatform advertising. 
Executives who have seen financial figures for the auction said that Emap had put a $600 million price tag on the properties but might settle for $550 million. 
One executive who quit the bidding said he did so because he believed the asking price was too high and ought to be closer to $450 million.
Executives at American Media said that the company's chief executive, David Pecker, is intensely negotiating with Emap. Mr. Pecker has been trying to lure high-end advertisers to his tabloid properties, but has been unsuccessful so far. If American Media were to purchase Petersen, Mr. Pecker could try to lure its mainstream advertisers into American Media's tabloids. 
Time Inc. executives said that AOL-Time Warner expects the unit to expand. The Emap properties, they said, could fit neatly with Time's purchase last year of Times Mirror Magazines, a publisher of sports and enthusiast magazines. 
Primedia has bid on the properties in the past, losing out in the 1996 bidding, when the company was known as K-III Communications. Primedia is controlled by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company.
Gruner & Jahr, a division of Bertelsmann, and Hachette Filipacchi, passed on bidding after expressing initial interest, according to executives close to the companies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); SNOWBOARDING (53%) MAGAZINES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: EMAP PLC (92%); AOL INC (84%); TIME INC (84%); WILLIS STEIN & PARTNERS LP (68%); KKR & CO LP (61%); TPG CAPITAL LP (57%); GRUNER + JAHR AG & CO KG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTOR TREND (MAGAZINE); TEEN (MAGAZINE); AMERICAN MEDIA INC; PRIMEDIA INC; AOL TIME WARNER; TEXAS PACIFIC GROUP; EMAP PLC 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (84%); KKR (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (68%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (68%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (61%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (57%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (51%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%) SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; KUCZYNSKI, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



562 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
Chelsea Is on the March Northward

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
A 12-story mixed-income rental building is nearing completion at the northeast corner of West 30th Street and Ninth Avenue, continuing the northward push of housing in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood.
 Chelsea Place, at 363 West 30th Street, is in the area long dominated by giant postal facilities: the General Post Office between Eighth and Ninth Avenues and 31st and 33rd Streets and the mail-sorting complex between Ninth and 10th Avenues from 28th to 30th Streets. Madison Square Garden is a block away and the open rail yards are nearby. 
 The new structure, a nondoorman building, includes 77 studio-to-two-bedroom apartments, including penthouses, of 450 to 1,200 square feet. Some penthouses have fireplaces, terraces or skylights. Twenty percent of the units are set aside for residents making less than 50 percent of the median annual income in New York City. The remaining 80 percent of the apartments are being leased at market rates of $1,675 to $4,600 a month. 
Those rents are somewhat less than those for apartments at the crop of new high-rise rentals, totaling about 1,000 units, in and around the neighborhood, according to the developer, the Zucker Organization of Manhattan.
"They are under the market, but not undercutting the market," said Robert A. Scaglion, director of business development at CitiHabitats, a Manhattan brokerage firm. "They are in a location that is slightly off the beaten path and are not offering a doorman, so they are priced accordingly."
Typical monthly rents at new buildings in Chelsea, he said, range from $2,000 for a studio to $4,800 for a two-bedroom (down 10 percent from last year). "It is a strong but price-sensitive market," he said. "Landlords who adjust to today's market will do well and those who hold out for higher rents will continue to hold out."
Laurie Zucker, vice chairwoman of the Zucker Organization, said, "The economy is cooling, so we wanted to rent up quickly and not hold out for the last dollar." She added that her company would rather wait for the rents to increase over time and use the less expensive rents today.
Since leasing began at the end of May, contracts have been signed for 39 of the 60 market-rate apartments, including all six studios, said Nina F. Falk, an associate broker at Cantor & Pecorella of Manhattan, the project manager. She said the units were being rented by single people and couples from the area, 25 to 35 years old on average, who want a newer or larger apartment. But, she added, "everyone came here for the rent."
The subsidized units will be rented for $517 to $665 a month to people earning $20,700 to $29,550 a year, depending on the size of the apartment and the family. Applications for those units are no longer being accepted.
Ms. Zucker said her company was able to keep rents lower for the market-rate units in part because the $3.2 million cost to acquire the Chelsea Place site was reasonable.
The developers were attracted to the site because "West 30th Street is a beautiful residential block in an emerging neighborhood," Ms. Zucker said.
Developers are expanding the boundaries of Chelsea northward by turning what used to be manufacturing districts along Seventh Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas into housing sites. The change was spurred by rezonings along the avenues to permit residential development.
By developing Chelsea Place as an "80-20" project and keeping 20 percent of the units affordable to people with limited incomes, the Zucker Organization received $17.7 million in tax-exempt bond financing from the New York State Housing Finance Agency.
The building is clad in red brick and limestone and features "big windows, which gives it the bold, gutsy look of a downtown loft," said Stephen B. Jacobs, who designed Chelsea Place and heads the Manhattan architectural firm bearing his name.
Amenities include an exercise room with an adjacent laundry, a rooftop deck, a third-floor terrace and a 15-car underground parking garage. Ms. Zucker said initial occupancy was expected to begin in mid-August.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chelsea Place, a 77-unit rental building on 30th Street at Ninth Avenue, is nearing completion. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



563 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Budget Leaders Reach Pact, Keeping Rebates 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 21 

 BODY:
Legislative budget leaders said today that they had reached agreement on a new spending plan for New Jersey that preserves two election-year property-tax rebates without increasing other taxes or fees.
 Although the state faces revenue shortfalls, leaders said the proposed budget for fiscal 2002 had been balanced, as required by the State Constitution, through spending cuts and the rollover of unspent money in the current budget. 
 But they would not state the size of the plan or give details about the trims made to the $23.2 billion budget that Christie Whitman proposed in January before she resigned as governor to become head of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
"Everybody's going to be a little unhappy," said Senator Robert E. Littell, chairman of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee. "But there's no irreparable harm done to anyone."
Under the State Constitution, the Legislature has to enact the budget by July 1. The document was being printed today and was expected to be introduced before midnight, officials said. Committee hearings on it are scheduled for Monday.
Unlike budget preparations during the economic boom of the late 1990's, negotiations on the budget for the fiscal year starting on July 1 have been overshadowed by squabbling over projected shortfalls in the state's tax revenue.
The state treasurer, Peter R. Lawrance, contends that proceeds from sales, corporate, income and other taxes are $948 million below expectation for the rest of this budget year and for fiscal 2002. On the other hand, the Office of Legislative Services, a nonpartisan branch of the Legislature that, among other things, analyzes state finances, puts the revenue shortfall at $1.6 billion.
The new budget was fashioned with Mr. Lawrance's income estimates, said Senator Littell and Assemblyman Leonard Lance, head of the Assembly Budget Committee.
The two legislators, both Republicans, said that the budget did not tamper with increases in the two rebate programs recently announced by Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco.
Under one, the N.J. Saver Rebate, Mr. DiFrancesco on Tuesday increased the average annual payment to homeowners to $500, up from an average of $240 last year. The increase will cost the state $607 million, up from $337 million last year, Mr. Lawrance has said. Under the other program, the Homestead Rebate, Mr. DiFrancesco and G.O.P. legislative leaders favor an increase to $750 from $500 the maximum payments for disabled and elderly homeowners who earn less than $100,000 a year. Mr. Lawrance has said the $118 million cost of this increase was in his department's budget for fiscal 2002.
The N.J. Saver rebate checks are to be mailed in early September, about two months before voters choose a new State Legislature. Republicans are expected to face a stiff challenge to their decadelong control. Some Democrats have criticized the increased rebates as G.O.P. election-year gimmickry.
Mr. Lance noted today that Democratic legislators had wholeheartedly endorsed the rebates in the past.
"I hope those who have voted for them will vote for the budget," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); INCOME TAX (65%); SALES REBATES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: LEONARD LANCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



564 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL; 
McNabb Won't Run From Demands

BYLINE:  By THOMAS GEORGE

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
The spotlight radiates on Donovan McNabb, and it is hot. With the Eagles' final minicamp recently behind them, and with their training camp debut set for July 27, McNabb has been shuttling between interviews, photo shoots and fund-raisers, mindful to keep football at the forefront.
 For McNabb, 24, a third-year quarterback in the N.F.L. around whom the Eagles franchise is being built, a player with a 14-10 record as a starter who generated a head-turning playoff showing last season, fulfilling his demands is tricky business. 
 So, McNabb's teammates warn against bombarding him with sticky subjects. Tread lightly, they say, when asking him about being booed by Eagles fans at the draft in 1999. Do not talk about the black quarterback issue or even hint about his running abilities as a quarterback. Avoid discussing the pressure he might feel to produce more now rather than later. 
But as McNabb settled in to talk at the Eagles' complex, it was as if he were in the pocket peering right and left, ready to strike. The spotlight may be hot, but for that moment, at least, he brought extinguishers.
"I don't concentrate too much on what everybody is thinking, and when did that change?" he offered, even before the subject could be broached. "When I got booed at the draft, I looked over at my mom and she started to cry. I looked at my dad and he was upset. My brother was mad. Me? Of course I took it personally. Now, I look at it as every opportunity I have to step on the field is a chance to show what I can do."
Like the scrambling, darting, daring quarterback he is, he followed that comment with this one:
"I get tired of hearing about the mobility of black quarterbacks in the N.F.L. Hey, what about black quarterbacks being players who have done well in college, have been drafted and bring their knack of reading defenses, decision making and leadership to the game? I just don't hear that part."
O.K., McNabb was rolling now, so how about the pressure? Could he handle this spotlight? The heat?
"I know I'm a third-year player, but why can't it all happen now?" he asked.
It's all a bit much -- being regarded as one of pro football's best quarterbacks, being asked to nix the Giants jinx, to win a championship, right now, in the coming season.
Just what will McNabb do?
Just the thought makes every Eagle ecstatic and eager.
Because McNabb, who was booed on national television by some Eagles fans on draft day because they wanted Ricky Williams instead, is now among the most prominent sports figures in Philadelphia. Sixers guard Allen Iverson may have just completed a tantalizing bid for a basketball championship, and the Phillies may have made baseball fun here once again, but McNabb is the city's most adored sports star.
Last year, in only his second pro season, he took an average group of offensive personnel and led the Eagles to startling heights. Philadelphia finished with an 11-5 regular-season record and upset the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in a playoff game. McNabb, passing and running, accounted for 74.6 percent of his team's total net yards last season. He finished second behind St. Louis Rams running back Marshall Faulk for league most valuable player honors. Over all, in his two seasons, he has thrown 29 touchdown passes compared with 20 interceptions.
This season there is great anticipation.
"They were not expected to do what they did last year, but they won as a team without a lot of big names," said receiver James Thrash, a free agent the Eagles signed from the Washington Redskins. "Why wouldn't I want to come here and be a part of this with Donovan? He is one of those rare players who is exciting to watch even if you are playing against him."
McNabb's father, Sam, who still lives in Chicago, McNabb's hometown, knows his son.
"There is nothing that Donovan starts that he does not feel he is capable of finishing as the very best," he said. "I see a natural process of evolution with him where he has been blessed to have both of his parents and that helped him build a foundation. Now he is taking that foundation and building a pretty nice house. Everyone was unsure about him as a football player last year. This year the expectations are so much greater. Donovan has to be ready to answer some questions. Donovan has to be ready to pass some tests."
McNabb's draft-day disaster cannot be overstated, because it is the backdrop from which he works. He said he knew there was a problem well before the draft because a former college teammate from Syracuse who lived in Philadelphia had warned him that the entire city seemed to want the Eagles to draft Williams, the Texas running back, with the No. 2 pick.
"People think it all started when the pick was announced," McNabb said, "but even before the draft started, when we were in the green room and the players that were there were being announced, I was booed. Yeah, I noticed that. And then when the pick came and there was more booing, how can you ever be prepared for that?"
Especially on a day like that, his father said.
"Everything for a young man in a high draft position builds up to that point and it becomes the biggest day of his life," Sam McNabb said. "He had never heard that kind of thing before. We had never heard it. His mother, it took her a long time to get to this point where she can talk about it now without crying and getting emotional. People tried to explain it by saying, 'It wasn't meant against you, it was because they didn't take Ricky Williams.' Well, that's like being in a drive-by shooting and saying the bullet was not meant for you, sorry it hit you.
"It was a rude awakening for Donovan. It taught him about big business. And it is something to build off of in terms of keeping grounded, in understanding that going from hero to zero doesn't take a whole bunch."
McNabb's 1999 contract was said to be a seven-year, $54 million deal with a $11.3 million signing bonus. But those around McNabb call him frugal and even tight.
McNabb opts for conservative.
"If I see a shirt for $75, I know I can get that shirt for cheaper than that and I won't buy it," he said. "I check on everything financial with my agent. If I have a family member who needs money, I check into it, really check into it, first. I don't worry about what people think -- it's my money, so it's my business."
He is defiant and direct. And there is little naivete there.
"Well, on that one, he's like me," his father said, chuckling. "I call it being economically wise."
His teammates say that they see no pretentiousness, that he is a teammate's teammate. They say he has the ability to be the funniest guy in the room, the crack comedian, yet also the most serious among them.
"Donovan in a practice or a game runs into some players who are so focused and intense that they are about to have a nervous breakdown," Eagles cornerback Bobby Taylor said. "He can calm 'em down."
McNabb can throw the ball on the run, throw it on the roll, stand firm and split a defense or run through one. The Eagles' owner, Jeffrey Lurie, talks about McNabb's professionalism and dynamism and about how McNabb and Coach Andy Reid form a duo that can create and sustain greatness.
Reid offers caution: "I've been watching quarterbacks in this offense a long time and it takes three years to grasp it and four years to perfect it. After four years you're going to know what this guy is. You could see him one day knowing the offense so well that he can execute it off his back foot, throwing sidearm, improvising, letting more of his ability show. I'm a realist. You have to perform every year in the N.F.L. Time will tell. Donovan does have the work ethic to finish ahead of the curve. When you look at his ability alone, he is competing against history and himself."
McNabb is competing in the same division against a Giants club that has beaten the Eagles in nine straight games, including 20-10 in a playoff game last season. He is finding ways to distance himself from his painful start, finding a way to accept being booed, then being embraced. More is expected, though there is doubt about just how much the Eagles' offense, especially the receiving crew, has been improved.
For McNabb, though, it is hot. Now, he has to keep cool.
"I'm a guy who's got to make an impact," he said. "This year I want to improve on putting a little more air under my passes. This year we have at least two more opportunities to change the way things have gone with the Giants. I'm learning more -- but I've learned a lot."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Donovan McNabb's desire to excel stems from being booed on draft day. (Bradley Clark Bower for The New York Times)(pg. D1); Eagles quarterback Donovan McNabb has thrown for 29 touchdowns and 20 interceptions in two seasons. (Bradley Clark Bower for The New York Times)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (91%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FUNDRAISING (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



565 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 4667 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The New York Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* AFRICAN GALLERIES, Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (on long-term view). The museum has one of the oldest and most important collections of African art in the country. Just a few years ago, 250 objects from the permanent collection were installed in revamped first-floor galleries; now two dozen pieces have been added and the space has been redesigned again, this time with multicolored walls, mural-size color photographs, documentary films and ambient sound. Added works expand the definition of African to include both Morocco and ancient Nubia. And the overall selection, from familiar friends to treasures recently acquired, is thrilling. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (to 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $4; $2, students and 62+ (Holland Cotter)

* "AFRICAN, OCEANIC AND ANCIENT AMERICAN ART: RECENT ACQUISITIONS," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Oct. 28). One of the best new group shows in the city -- stimulating to mind and eye -- is sitting smack in the middle of the Michael C. Rockefeller Wing at the Met, and you've probably never seen the like of much of what's in it. The 70 pieces all came to the Met as gifts or purchases over the last five years. They take many forms, from devotional icons to notebook drawings to Sunday-best hats, and they span centuries and continents, from a tiny Mexican ceramic mask made around the ninth century B.C. to a hummingbird-colored silk mantle woven in Madagascar in 1998. A bottom line to such diversity? Almost everything here was meant to have some contact with the human body: to be worn, carried, caressed. This is art with the velvet ropes down. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $5, students and 65+ (Cotter).

"AZTLAN TODAY: THE CHICANO POSTNATION," Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, (718) 681-6000 (through Sept. 9). Removed in time from the intensely political art of the Chicano civil rights era, almost everything in this show of recent work takes the form of conceptually based photography and video. The tone is low-key; the polish is high. A stance of rooted historical witness has been replaced by ambiguity. Ethnic identity is treated alternately with shrewd comic flair, tender theatricality or autobiographical intimacy. The work is strong; of particular interest is the way it suggests subtle changes in the nature of political art through the 1990's. Hours: Wednesdays noon to 9 p.m.; Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $3; $2, students and 65+ (Cotter)

* JACQUES AND NATASHA GELMAN GALLERIES, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5000 (continuing). These glorious new galleries display 50 French modern works, almost all paintings, drawn from the Gelmans' collection. In addition to the paintings here, the collection includes five sculptures, more than 30 drawings and a major work on paper: a Matisse cutout, the Met's first, which will be shown in a subsequent hanging. The standouts installed here include Matisse's Fauve masterpiece "The Young Sailor II"; a matched set of small, classic Cubist paintings, one by Picasso, one by Braque, both from 1911, arguably the high point of their collaboration; and a fantastically refined, sexually fraught 1929 Dali, "Accommodations of Desires." It is a selection that is not only consistent in its high quality but also, for all the big names and visual firepower, surprisingly personal. It makes the museum a modern art destination in a way that it has never quite been before. Hours and admission: See above (Roberta Smith).

* "EL GRECO: THEMES AND VARIATIONS," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through July 29). This gemlike single-digit exhibition (just seven canvases) outweighs some of the more grandiose shows in New York museums at the moment. It brings together, mostly for the first time, four versions of the artist's tumultuous "Purification of the Temple," which provide a vivid time line of his transcultural development, and three versions of his resonant portrait of St. Jerome as a cardinal, which were all painted toward the end of his life when he skillfully copied -- always with interesting differences -- his works for private patrons. The show makes its small oval gallery reverberate with thoughts about painting: as craft, thought, commodity and lifelong pursuit. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $5, students and 62+ (Smith).

* WILLIAM KENTRIDGE, New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Prince Street, (212) 219-1222 (through Sept. 16). By way of drawings and film animations, Mr. Kentridge addresses in searing images South Africa and its racial problems, along with the longings and frustrations of bourgeois lives played out in the country's deeply dysfunctional setting. The exhibition begins with his jarring "Shadow Procession" (1999), a ragtag parade of silhouetted moving images projected on a big screen, which evokes the displaced and dispossessed who haunt not only South Africa but also the history of the world. At the heart of the show are his drawings and the short animated films he makes of them, in which the process shares importance with the content. Many of the films contrast the lives of two antiheroes, one a crude rapacious businessman, the other a sensitive artist, in compelling medleys of images that touch on the personal and the political. Departing from this format is "Ubu Tells the Truth" (1997), a highly charged satire based on the hearings of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, set up in 1995 to investigate human rights abuses during the apartheid era. It's not often that good art is shaped from such raw angry material, but Mr. Kentridge's powers of invention are equal to the challenge. Hours: Wednesdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays through Saturdays, noon to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, students, artists and 65+ (Grace Glueck).

* "MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE CLEVELAND MUSEUM OF ART," Morgan Library, 29 East 36th Street, (212) 685-0610 (through Aug. 19). From Michelangelo to Louise Bourgeois, from Rembrandt to Franz Kline, this cornucopia of drawings from one of the most important collections in the United States bristles with the work of stellar talents. A standout is a double-sided drawing in red chalk by Michelangelo, probably done around 1510-1511. One side reveals the trouble he had sketching a foot that fits the position of a youthful male nude on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel; the other shows the headless nude itself, a powerful, ingeniously posed figure that emphasizes the sculptor's magnificent grasp of anatomical rendering. A rare compositional drawing by Fra Filippo Lippi, a subtly toned landscape by Claude Lorrain, a scene of battling horses by Gericault, a stately portrait by Ingres, one of Seurat's brilliant black crayon drawings of a French vaudeville scene, and works by Degas and Toulouse-Lautrec are among the highlights. The 20th-century American group is something of a disappointment, but there is enough great stuff to make this a masterpiece of a show. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $6, students and 65+ (Glueck).

* "UNIFORM: ORDER AND DISORDER," P.S. 1 Center for Contemporary Art, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084 (through Sept. 3). Originally shown in Italy, this exhibition traces the changing forms and symbolism of the modern military uniform as it progresses through and is transformed by the larger culture -- alternately respected and violated, examined and absorbed, abbreviated and exaggerated. The perpetrators include artists like Wolfgang Tillmans, Vanessa Beecroft and Maurizio Cattelan; fashion designers like Prada, Versace and Donna Karan; and scores of terrorists, punks and nameless teenagers. Eight well-stocked vitrines present a plethora of supporting material. The exhibition ends with the real thing: a gantlet of the uniforms and head gear -- from fatigues to parade dress -- worn by members of the different Italian military services. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5 (Smith).

Galleries: Uptown

LOCKWOOD DE FOREST, Richard York, 21 East 65th Street, (212) 772-9155 (through July 27). By no means a name to reckon with in the pantheon of American view makers, de Forest (1850-1932) specialized in unpretentious small sketches meant to convey the feeling of a place rather than dwell on its physical attributes. His work, until recently kept mostly in family hands, was a visual diary of his many wanderings. In contrast to the taste of the time, he regarded his sketches as finished works, focusing, even in exotic locations like Egypt, India, Syria, Greece and Mexico, on village life, stretches of dunes, desert rocks, tree-lined shores and distant mountains bathed in fog. For those who like their countrysides relaxed and uninvasive, this show will appeal (Glueck).

LAURA DE SANTILLANA, Barry Friedman, 32 East 67th Street, (212) 794-8950 (through June 29). Blowing glass is a natural for Ms. de Santillana, as her grandfather Paolo Venini founded a glassworks in Murano, Italy, noted for its hospitality to artists. Later it was headed by her and her father. Her abstract sculptures, in tabletop size, have simple, squarish tablet shapes. But they glow with subtle oppositions of brilliant versus muted tones, translucency versus opacity, materiality versus evanescence. Their energy also derives from the tensions they set up between painting and sculpture. Infused with the light values of glass, these painterly sculptures at their best can be dazzling (Glueck).

JOHN DUFF, Knoedler, 19 East 70th Street, (212) 794-0550 (through June 29). Mr. Duff displays his enduring involvement with industrial materials, geometric form and philosophical conceptions of order. Sculptures from the late 1960's and 70's that are on view here include elegant distorted cylinders or double-ended boat shapes made of rough fiberglass (Ken Johnson).

KEITH HARING, Skarstedt, 1018 Madison Avenue, near 79th Street, (212) 737-2060 (through June 30). Promiscuously generous an artist as he was, Haring was also very uneven. This exhibition of just four medium-large canvases from the early 1980's shows him at his best. Two in particular suggest the vision of a modern Bosch. Densely populated by manically interactive demons, monsters and little men, they combine graphic ingenuity, mythic narrative and erotic polymorphism to exhilarating effect (Johnson).

ALEX KATZ, Adam Baumgold, 74 East 79th Street, (212) 861-7338 (through July 13). Though famous mainly for his large, elegantly flattened and simplified pictures of beautiful, well-to-do people, Mr. Katz also has a lovely touch on a small scale. This modest but rewarding show of mostly small pictures of women, plus some funky little collages from the 1950's, shows to advantage his delicate brushwork, perfect compositional sense and controlled eroticism (Johnson).

MAX KUEHNE, "Artist and Craftsman," Hollis Taggart, 48 East 73rd Street, (212) 628-4000 (through July 13). A student of Robert Henri, Kuehne (1880-1968) was a competent painter, but his most distinctive contribution was his production of well-made richly decorative furniture, picture frames and wood carvings. Under influences ranging from Japanese to Art Nouveau, he incised outlines of flora and fauna into gessoed surfaces and added colored glazes and burnished metal leaf. The most engaging pieces here are a pair of smoothly carved, elegantly humorous silver giraffes (Johnson).

* "POP ART: THE JOHN AND KIMIKO POWERS COLLECTION," Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, at 77th Street, (212) 744-2313 (through June 30). With his Japanese-born wife, Kimiko, John Powers (1916-1999), a former president of the Prentice-Hall publishing company, gathered a big-bang collection of Pop Art by the movement's stars. The 26 objects shown here, including works by Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns, Claes Oldenburg, Roy Lichtenstein, Andy Warhol and James Rosenquist, are mostly from the 1960's, and they bring a whole era back into vivid focus. Among the signature works are Warhol's serial extravaganza, "200 Soup Cans" (1962); Mr. Rauschenberg's "Broadcast" (1959), a combine painting with a working radio attached; and Mr. Oldenburg's soft "Drum Set" (1967), a bodylike sendup of a professional drummer's instruments in vinyl and canvas that droops on a platform in a metaphor for its own spent energy. Collectors' collectors, the Powerses made the pursuit into an art of their own (Glueck).

Galleries: 57th Street

* VIJA CELMINS, McKee, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 688-5951 (through June 29). Ms. Celmins just keeps making the same old thing: paintings that are at once rigorously formal and expansively illusory, quietly transcendental and materially sumptuous. This spare, beautifully installed exhibition features eight easel-size paintings: six of starry night skies and two of blurrily luminous spider webs. In the print room, crisp wood engravings of rippling ocean surfaces look like 19th-century illustrations for "Moby-Dick" (Johnson).

RALSTON CRAWFORD, "Phantom Forms," Laurence Miller Gallery, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 397-3930 (through June 29). This hard-edge painter often used his camera to record subjects taken up in paintings, but more often his photographs stood on their own. This small show of a dozen or so is a sampling from thousands produced by the artist over the years. His focus in most of the pictures is the play between light and shadow (Glueck)

CONRAD MARCA-RELLI, "Canvas Collages," Washburn, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 397-6780 (through June 29). Marca-Relli ran with the Abstract Expressionists in the 1950's, but while his collage-based work always had a bold, rough-hewn immediacy, he was driven more by interest in structure than gesture. His compact, puzzle-like compositions of canvas, paper, mattress ticking and other materials from the 1960's hark back to the glory days of Cubism (Johnson).

ANDREA MODICA/ VICTOR SCHRAGER, Edwynn Houk, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 750-7070 (through June 30). A series of close-up antique-looking photographs of 100-year-old human skulls, exhumed from a mass grave on the grounds of a Colorado mental hospital, is a radical departure for Ms. Modica but lacks the intense humanistic poetry of her justly celebrated "Treadwell" series. Mr. Schra ger's quasi-antique photographic still lifes of flowers and old books suggest an Emersonian wedding of nature and culture (Johnson).

JEFF WEISS, "The Big Boys Are Coming," Laurence Miller, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 397-3930 (through June 29). Mr. Weiss's large digitally processed, surrealistic photoworks combine appropriated images into crazily disjunctive, apocalyptic landscapes. In one, a woman decapitates a kayaker, while in the distance oil towers belch smoke and fire and a space shuttle takes off. Up close, the pictures have the bland sheen of magazine illustrations; one wonders what these boyish visions might look like if they had been made in some more individualized way (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

PHILIP AKKERMAN, Gorney Bravin & Lee, 534 West 26th Street, (212) 352-8372 (through June 30). Mr. Akkerman, a 40-year-old Dutch artist, has painted self-portraits, and only self-portraits, at the rate of one a day, since the mid-1980's. Within this Conceptual framework, he invokes the entire history of portraiture, displays a terrific color sense (especially where skin is concerned), makes good use of his extensive hat collection, and subjects his somber face to an impressive range of physical and formal distortions. (In the project gallery, unusually personal photographic works by Julie Bamber and Catherine Opie are exhibited, their common theme being the artists' fathers.) (Smith).

RICHMOND BURTON, Cheim & Read, 521 West 23rd Street, (212) 242-7727 (through June 30). Mr. Burton's new paintings speed up his calligraphic strokes and commas to good effect. His palette of silver and gold mixed with red, turquoise or purple also helps to create the impression of decorative and somewhat Middle Eastern imagery -- graceful Persian texts or Byzantine mosaics -- converted pure molecular energy (Smith).

"CLENCH, CLUTCH, FLINCH," Paul Rodgers, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 414-9810 (through June 30). Organized by the critic Dominique Nahas, this 13-artist show makes little sense thematically, but it offers a number of interesting things, including Julianne Swartz's peep-hole view of a bright interior with mirrored balls and fluttering tinsel; Monica Castillo's video of a woman painting on a man's genitalia; Melvin Way's small, diagrammatic, Outsider-like drawings; an inflated man by Tim Hawkinson; a big, wildly elaborate doodle by Diana Cooper; and a set of calligraphic drawings by Henri Michaux (Johnson).

* STEPHEN DEAN, Henry Urbach Architecture, 526 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 627-0974 (through June 29). One of the most impressive debuts of the season is that of Mr. Dean, a young French-American artist whose obsession with intense, saturated color has taken him to India, where color is intrinsic to daily life. The result is "Pulse," a painterly, almost unbelievably gorgeous video of the annual spring Holi festival, when residents douse one another with colored powders and water until the streets flow with color (Smith).

KEN LUM, Andrea Rosen, 525 West 24th Street, (212) 627-6000 (through June 30). Each of this Vancouver-based artist's new works simulates a cheap plastic store sign that includes moveable letters. The temporary letters for Hanoi Travel read: "Disneyland Packages/ Fun in the Sun/ We remember the People's War." This may signify the triumph of global capitalism over local politics, but on the whole this show does not do justice to Mr. Lum's gift for evocatively condensed story-telling (Johnson).

ANTONIO MURADO, "Icescapes," Lucas Schoormans, 508 West 26th Street, (212) 243-3159 (through June 30). The new paintings of this inventive abstractionist walk a fine line between beauty and decorative elegance. Using wide brushes and mostly shades of beige and gray, Mr. Murado streaks and scumbles broad latitudinal swathes, evoking Abstract Expressionist gesturalism and expansive arctic landscapes that hark back to the icy visions of Caspar David Friedrich. Dark yellow, crackled glazes of varnish add a look of old masterish antiquity (Johnson).

CHUCK NANNEY, Debs & Company, 525 West 26th Street, (212) 642-2070 (though June 30). "Everything I do was done by a feminist artist in the 1970's" is the stance taken by one of the drawings in this show, and it's not far wrong. But Mr. Nanney's crudely stitched together pouches, cardboard pedestals displaying crumpled balls of aluminum foil or bright little pom-poms, have plenty of riffs of their own. Most notable is an overreaching attraction to glamour, attained by the simplest of means. Excess is rarely so economically achieved (Smith).

* SHIRIN NESHAT, Barbara Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9300 (through June 29). Three videos isolate themes or devices that Ms. Neshat previously deployed in combination, to more impressive effect. The strongest video is "Possessed," which gains from its Philip Glass score and touches on the artist's main theme -- the plight of women in traditional Muslim societies. The near pitch-dark "Pulse" creates an aura of poetic ambiguity for the viewer to unravel, while "Passages" has groups of bare-headed men and chador-clad women, in separate groups, in a dramatic setting. United, these qualities succeed; divided, they are far less engaging (Smith).

ROBERT WATTS, "Photography Into Sculpture," Leslie Tonkonow, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-8450 (through June 30). In the late 1950's and 1960's, Watts (1923-88), a player in the Fluxus movement, worked to undo all the usual ways of conceiving art objects, artists and viewers. This show revisits a time when art could still be innocently revolutionary. "Three Clouds," consisting of three cubes, one all white, one with a photographic surface of human skin and the third photographically dissolved into clouds, is a witty dematerialization of Minimalism and, perhaps, an updated Christian Trinity (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

* "BETWEEN STREET AND MIRROR: THE DRAWINGS OF JAMES ENSOR," Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, (212) 219-2166 (through July 21). The show's pleasure partly involves serendipity. This feels like the perfect moment for an oddball like Ensor, but maybe any time would feel like the right time for somebody whose work, whether it is appalling or fantastic (and it can be both simultaneously), looks eternally modern. The drawings are from the 1880's and 90's. Some started out as ordinary sketches of household objects to which faces and monsters were added, like Rorschachs of the artist's imagination. They somehow become more luminous and translucent the more densely they are drawn, an extraordinary paradox. On the other hand, when the drawings aren't dense, they can be vaporous like Turners, with an effect akin to looking back on a dream: you can't quite place what you are seeing. But the emotion the images provoke is stronger precisely because of the frustration attached to it. Ensor is one of those artists Americans tend to forget or never really knew properly. A hero in Europe, he is vastly deserving of reappraisal here, and this excellent exhibition is a place to start (Michael Kimmelman).

WILLIAM N. COPLEY, Nolan/Eckman Gallery, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 925-6190 (through June 29). A patron of artists and a painter himself, Copley (1919-1996) worked in a witty frou-frou style heavily influenced by decorative patterning a la Vuillard and Matisse. His life, he said, was "a quest for the ridiculous image," and he often found it, giving lighthearted treatment to brothels, prostitutes, priests and policemen. The wacky spirit in this work tickles rather than bites, and like these two indulgences, a little goes a long way (Glueck).

BRAD KAHLHAMER, "Almost American," Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, (212) 343-7300 (through June 30). An American Indian reared by white, middle-class parents, Mr. Kahlhamer makes big paintings in which contradictory worlds converge or collide. Painting Abstract Expressionist-style, he generates spacious, Western frontiers and populates them with scrawled Indians in canoes, bison, flying eagles, stacked audio speakers and his own country-western song lyrics. The paintings are raw and baggy, but the spiritual enterprise as a whole is moving (Johnson).

Other Galleries

* "COTE D'AZUR: ART, MODERNITY AND THE MYTH OF THE FRENCH RIVIERA," AXA Gallery, 787 Seventh Avenue, at 51st Street, (212) 554-4818 (through July 14). "A dream space created by artists for the 20th century" is how Kenneth E. Silver, author of the book that spawned this show, describes the French Riviera. And to prove the point, more than 70 works by 40 artists are on view, from Matisse and Picasso to the photographer Jacques-Henri Lartigue and the architect Le Corbusier and including more contemporary talents like Yves Klein and Eric Fischl. Rail access opened up the long-neglected southern coast to commerce and tourism in the 1860's, and the first artists, Renoir and Monet, arrived there in 1883 for a two-week tour. They evidently spread the word, for by the time of World War I the coast had became a mecca for artists whose palettes thrived on the dazzling quality of the light and the clear, fresh colors of the sky, water and vegetation. The Cote d'Azur's heyday is deftly covered, but one caveat: Why clutter this persuasive survey, which really celebrates the coast as a garden of European modernism, with recent and peripheral works by a group of American artists? (Glueck).

WILLIAM POPE.L / DANIEL J. MARTINEZ, the Project, 427 W. 126th Street, Harlem, (212) 662-8610 (through June 30). Solo shows by two outstanding mavericks. Mr. Pope.L's installations of liquor bottles and dolls, recycled Goodwill underwear and prose poems on race are about shifting concepts of inside vs. outside and the insistent invisibility of blackness. Mr. Martinez's self-portrait photographs take a shock-tactic approach to abjection. In one picture, he pulls his viscera out through a slit in his stomach; in another, he leans toward the camera to reveal suture marks circling his head. The pictures are collaborations between Mr. Martinez and the special-effects film makeup artists Bari Dreiband-Burman and Tom Burman (Cotter).

JENNA SPEVACK, "Sticks and Stones and Superstrings," Here Art, 145 Avenue of the America, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 647-0202 (through June 30). In a written statement, Ms. Spevack makes the dubious claim that her tiny drawings of imaginary stones, sticks and lengths of rope in precariously balanced arrangements illustrate advanced scientific theories. But her finely drawn, whimsical pictures have considerable faux-innocent, comic appeal (Johnson).

Last Chance

* "WILLIAM BLAKE," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Sunday). A touching and beautiful show if you have a taste for Blake's art, which strives for ecstatic revelation on the level of his famous visions and rises to the heights of his verse, sometimes. From the Age of Aquarius to New Age, he has come to serve as the patron saint of flower children, Jungians, Freudians, occultists, spiritualists, nudists, unpublished authors, animal lovers, socialists and teenagers of the sort who read Hermann Hesse. By turning our attention to his laborious illustrations and watercolors, the exhibition compels us to think about him as a serious and original visual artist, which is to say as a more idiosyncratic and substantial figure than the cliches suggest. He truly believed that the world was ending and that he had been sent to set things right at the last minute. Whatever else he may or may not have been, Blake was the most genuine and uncompromising artist you can think of. Hours and admission: See above (Kimmelman).

* "FREESTYLE," Studio Museum in Harlem, 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500 (through Sunday). Spring in New York brings new-talent museum surveys, and this spring, "Freestyle" is the one to catch. The museum's curator, Thelma Golden, working with Christine Y. Kim, has brought together 28 young or youngish black artists from across the country, some of whom are appearing here for the first time. The show is, for the most part, punchy to look at (painting dominates), full of ideas and, with the intriguingly complex notion of a "post-black art" in the air, completely of this American moment. Not to be missed is the spicy magazine-style catalog with essays by some of the best young art curators and critics around. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Fridays, to 8 p.m. Admission: $5; $3, students and 62+ (Cotter)

* EDUARDO SARABIA, I-20 Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 645-1100 (through tomorrow). Animated by walls painted with green vines, this impressive debut roams freely across several mediums, the artist's Mexican roots and the Los Angeles cityscape. The centerpiece is a festival-float cornucopia that has references to sex, violence and the materialistic American dream (Smith).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Large detail from Dufy's "Golfe-Juan," in "Cote d'Azur: Art, Modernity and the Myth of the French Riviera" at the AXA on Seventh Avenue. (From "Making Paradise," MIT Press); A 1916 work by Matisse, in the new Gelman galleries at the Met. (Metropolitan Museum of Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); ART COLLECTING (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (59%) UNITED STATES (91%); MADAGASCAR (77%); MOROCCO (72%); FRANCE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



566 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Deadlock Over Budget Shows Change In Minnesota 

BYLINE:  By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, June 21 

 BODY:
Minnesota's reputation as a place that is always Scandinavian clean and orderly is in danger -- at least the part about things always being orderly.
 For the past month, the State Senate, the State House of Representatives and the state's aggressively irrepressible governor, Jesse Ventura, have been at loggerheads over what to include in the $27.3 billion budget for the next two fiscal years. 
 If no agreement is reached by midnight on June 30, the end of the fiscal year, all state-run operations, except those deemed essential, like police and health services, will probably close.
"We're pulling separately in three different directions rather than jointly in just one direction," said Governor Ventura, who summoned legislative leaders to his office this afternoon in an effort to break the impasse. He did not succeed, but aides said he would try again tomorrow. 
Nobody loves a good dust-up more than Mr. Ventura. But the current squabble, he warned on Wednesday, is "headed down the road to disaster if there isn't a solution in the next couple of days."
The issues include taxes, school spending and abortion policy.
Everybody agrees on the need for tax relief, especially the governor, who has made it a centerpiece of his tenure. But what kind?
The governor and the Republican-controlled House want to reduce taxes paid by businesses, while the Democratic-controlled Senate wants to give homeowners a break.
Democrats want to increase school spending. But Republicans want to hold the line, and Mr. Ventura says he could go for some cuts.
Democratic leaders and the governor favor financing family planning and oppose a 24-hour wait for abortions. Republicans oppose putting up state money for family planning and favor a waiting period.
Mr. Ventura is particularly adamant on the abortion issue. He says he will veto budget legislation that includes anti-abortion language.
He has also threatened to veto any temporary spending bill, except one that finances only essential services, if the Legislature, which is in special session, does not pass a budget bill by the deadline.
"Legislators have taken an oath to govern, and I intend to make them stick by that oath," Mr. Ventura said a few days ago.
Why this gridlock and turmoil in a state that natives sometimes refer to good-naturedly as "the land of the bland"? For one thing, Mr. Ventura and the entire Legislature are up for re-election next year. The governor has his agenda, as do members of the House and Senate, and agendas tend to play a bigger political role when an election is just around the corner.
Another factor is the economy.
When drawing up the state's budget two years ago, Senate, House and Ventura administration negotiators took the revenue surplus the state was enjoying because of the booming national economy and divided it three ways, giving the three sides something to spend without interference by the other two.
This year, the economy is weakening and there is not enough surplus to divide, the negotiators say.
But perhaps more than anything else, basic change in Minnesota and Minnesotans is affecting the budget talks. The state is less cohesive and increasingly less Scandinavian and Northern European and more Latino, Asian and African-American. 
Mr. Ventura calls himself an independent and centrist, but at heart he is a reformer and seeks -- unsuccessfully so far -- to shake up Minnesota government by imposing term limits on elected officials and merging the House and Senate into a unicameral Legislature that meets every other year rather than yearly.
"I'll make a deal with the Legislature," he says. "They go unicameral -- a unicameral Legislature wouldn't squabble as much -- and I promise not to run again. Otherwise . . ."
Rural, conservative Republicans dominate the House; urban and suburban liberal Democrats run the Senate.
"The division has been deeper and more pronounced in recent years, and it can make things difficult," said the House speaker, Steve Sviggum, who lives on a farm near Kenyon, south of St. Paul.
Craig Grau, a political scientist at the University of Minnesota in Duluth, argues that change in the state and a "tripartite" government need not add up to governmental gridlock.
"It doesn't have to be that way," he said. "But when you have three different parties -- independent, Democrat and Republican -- with three different agendas -- centrist, left and right -- and you throw in egos and a looming election year, well, what you get is gridlock." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VETO (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ABORTION (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); FAMILY PLANNING (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); TAX LAW (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; VENTURA, JESSE (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) MINNESOTA

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



567 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Are Ambivalent On Pataki's Casino Proposal 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 21 

 BODY:
Senate Republicans overcame division in their ranks over casino gambling late this evening and approved a Pataki administration plan to allow the Seneca Indians to build as many as three Las Vegas-style casinos in western New York complete with the state's first slot machines. 
 The Senate's blessing came just a day after Gov. George E. Pataki unveiled a deal to build casinos in Niagara Falls and Buffalo, and possibly a third elsewhere on Seneca land, and legalize slot machines on Indian casinos in New York; slot machines are now expressly prohibited by the State Constitution. Conservative Republicans who have long opposed casino gambling on ideological grounds softened their stance on this particular proposal, and many of those who expressed reservations earlier in the day closed ranks by sundown. 
 "I had a lot of concerns about it," said Dale M. Volker, a Republican, and the senior member of the western New York delegation, said tonight. "We looked at it, talked to various people about it, decided it was in the best interests of western New York to move ahead on it."
The measure passed 39 to 14. Several Democrats, including two who represent Buffalo and Niagara Falls, voted for it: Byron W. Brown and William T. Stachowski. "We need to keep our dollars in Niagara Falls, America," Mr. Brown said.
Members of the Democrat-controlled Assembly adjourned tonight without voting on the casino proposal; they plan to return Monday. The speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, has expressed cautious support for the plan, but with no more than a skeletal proposal from the administration, he balked at the prospect of handing the governor carte blanche authority to negotiate the details with the American Indian nation. "I have a million questions," he said tonight.
And so, on the official last day of the legislative session, the casino deal became a bargaining chip in the budget negotiations between the governor and the two men who control the Legislature. Mr. Pataki needs the Legislature's approval to go forward with the plan. 
The most contentious issue concerns slot machines. The Pataki administration wants to amend the state penal law to permit slot machines on Indian land across the state. Neither of the two Indian casinos in New York -- one operated by the Oneida Nation near Utica and the other by the St. Regis Mohawks in Hogansburg, near the Montreal border -- has slot machines now. Instead, they have video gambling machines that accept no cash, using a device like a debit card instead.
Today, Senator Frank Padavan, a Queens Republican and an opponent of gambling, harshly criticized the governor. "He's trying to get around this in the writing of this bill," he said. "To me, that is fraught with legal challenges which most certainly will come."
Today, a host of questions remained. Who will develop and operate the casinos? How many slot machines will be permitted? How much money will they generate? And how much of that will go into the coffers of Buffalo and Niagara Falls?
The agreement with the Seneca Nation also provides that the state will get 18 percent of the net proceeds -- that is, after the bettors have been paid but before expenses -- in the first four years of operation. That will rise to 25 percent by the eighth year of operation.
Conservatives and liberals alike have held up casino development as a salve to the economic woes of western New York. A casino, they say, would attract the scores of tourists who visit Niagara Falls every year and cross the border to play the slot machines in the two giant privately operated casinos in Canada.
Likewise, other conservatives and liberals have railed against gambling on moral grounds and assailed casino development as economic boosters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (96%); GAMING (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CRIMINAL LAW (70%); BUDGETS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); UTICA, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



568 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
In the economic slump, Madison Avenue carries on. Deals, new campaigns and layoffs.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
AMID the pervasive gloom on Madison Avenue, the business of advertising goes on as large accounts change agencies, campaigns are approved and deals are made. But the economic slowdown is still having its effects as additional agencies lay off employees.
 In one of the largest consolidations ever of a media planning and buying account, Royal Philips Electronics named offices of Carat International, part of the Aegis Group, as its worldwide consumer media agency. Philips spends an estimated $600 million annually on advertising for products that include TV sets, electric shavers, picture tubes and lighting. 
 "This appointment brings global benefits for Philips," Mark Kerray, vice president and head of global brand management at Philips in Amsterdam, said in a statement, like "organizational efficiencies and better message management."
The decision came after a four-month review that had been narrowed to three finalists: Carat, which works for Philips in Europe; Initiative Media Worldwide, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies; and MediaVest, part of the Starcom MediaVest Worldwide unit of the Bcom3 Group, which works for Philips in Latin America and North America. Offices of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, and D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles, owned by Bcom3, share the Philips consumer creative account.
"It's big, big news for us, a validation of our strategy to expand to the U.S. and Asia," David Verklin, chief executive at Carat North America in New York, said in a telephone interview, "because you've got to be a global player to serve global businesses."
The consolidation is "a precursor of the future for the top 40, 50 brands as they hire one or two media service providers to handle their accounts on a worldwide basis," he added, "so they can do global media deals."
Mr. Verklin's reference was to the large ad packages giant marketers are buying across various properties owned by media conglomerates like AOL Time Warner, the News Corporation and Viacom Inc. Such package deals are proving popular as advertisers make plans for the important fall and holiday shopping seasons.
Speaking of the fall, the FedEx Corporation has approved a campaign scheduled to begin then, proposed by its longtime agency, BBDO New York. The campaign will replace ads that BBDO New York introduced only months ago, which carried the theme "This is a job for FedEx."
The approval came after a presentation made by BBDO New York, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of Omnicom, that was described by the trade publication Adweek as a "last-ditch" effort by the agency to save the account, with billings estimated at $85 million. Because FedEx executives have been unhappy with the agency's recent work, Adweek reported, if they had not liked the proposed fall campaign, they would have placed the account in review.
"We're looking very forward to moving forward on the campaign," said Carla Richards, a spokeswoman for FedEx in Memphis. She declined to discuss the Adweek report because, she said, she could not comment on internal business matters. BBDO New York, which has worked for FedEx since 1989, referred inquiries to FedEx.
Turning to the deals, two agencies are teaming up for a joint venture.
The Troy, Mich., office of D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles, part of Bcom3, and Martin Advertising in Birmingham, Ala., are forming an agency that will handle the advertising accounts for local dealer associations for two General Motors divisions, Cadillac and Pontiac. Terms were not disclosed.
The joint venture, named the D'Arcy Martin Group, will bring together D'Arcy, the creative agency for the two divisions, with Martin, which has experience creating campaigns for dealer associations and individual dealerships. D'Arcy Martin opens with 50 employees at full-service offices in Troy and Birmingham and at account service offices that are in current D'Arcy offices in five markets: Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles and New York. Media buying will be handled by the New York and Troy offices of LCI, owned by Interpublic. Billings have not been determined.
The joint venture is motivated by a recent policy change at General Motors, which eliminated local dealer associations in 1999 in favor of a more centralized approach but is now reinstating the associations in different form. D'Arcy Martin will be led by executives including David Martin, president, who also continues as president at Martin; D. Stan Fields III, chief operating officer at the D'Arcy Troy office; and Patrick Sherwood, president at D'Arcy North America.
Finally, as for the layoffs, they are being made at three agencies.
Euro RSCG McConnaughy Tatham in Chicago, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide unit of Havas Advertising, is dismissing 12 employees, or about 5 percent of its staff of 250.
Doug Dome, a spokesman for the agency, confirmed a report of the layoffs in the online edition of the trade publication Advertising Age. He attributed the dismissals primarily to "a general slowdown in spending" by clients as well as the recent loss of the Midas account.
Mullen/LHC in Winston-Salem, N.C., part of the Lowe Group unit of Interpublic, is dismissing about 30 people, or 20 percent of its staff of 150.
Mary Churchill, a spokeswoman for Mullen/LHC, attributed the layoffs to the economic slowdown and the recent loss of two accounts, the Hanes unit of Sara Lee and Thomasville furniture.
And Digitas, an interactive agency in Boston, is laying off 130 employees, leaving 1,600; in April, 65 employees were let go. The latest layoffs come a week after Digitas reduced revenue and income estimates for the second quarter below what management had expected. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BRANDING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ELECTRON TUBE MFG (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%) ADVERTISING; ACCOUNT CHANGES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (93%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (92%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); FEDEX CORP (82%); AEGIS GROUP PLC (72%); AOL INC (64%); NEWS CORP (64%); VIACOM INC (63%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (58%); BBDO NEW YORK (52%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (93%); OMC (NYSE) (92%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); FDX (NYSE) (82%); AGS (LSE) (72%); AOL (NYSE) (64%); NWS (NASDAQ) (64%); NWS (ASX) (64%); VIA (NASDAQ) (63%); PHIA (BIT) (58%); PHIA (AMS) (58%); PHG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (82%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (82%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (82%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (72%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (72%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (64%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (64%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (64%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (64%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (63%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (56%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (76%); LATIN AMERICA (75%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



569 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Public Interests; 
You've Got Mail

BYLINE:  By GAIL COLLINS 

 BODY:
Only about a month left until we get our $300 rebate checks from the federal government. Everybody's a winner! I just want to say right here and now that I don't intend to quit my job, although I do hope to buy my parents a new house and perhaps travel.
 The Internal Revenue Service, out of concern that taxpayers might get confused and send the money back, is mailing an explanatory letter in advance. "We are pleased to inform you," it begins, "that the United States Congress passed -- and President George W. Bush signed into law -- the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Act of 2001, which provides long-term tax relief for all Americans who pay income taxes." 
 The plug for President Bush is driving Democrats crazy. Senator Charles Schumer of New York called it "political editorializing" and worried that it would undermine the public's faith in the integrity of the I.R.S. Senator Max Baucus of Montana demanded to know if the 30 million Americans who aren't getting checks would be receiving a letter explaining that President Bush signed into law a tax relief bill that cuts them out.
We have been down this road before, so many times in fact that we could drive it in our sleep. Chief executives at the state and local level have been doing this sort of thing for a couple of decades now. In 1998, when Virginia sent taxpayers a rebate for part of the tax they pay on their cars, Gov. Jim Gilmore enclosed a letter, which his staff said was necessary because someone had to "explain what the checks were for." Critics wondered whether public education absolutely required repeated references to "my historic tax relief plan." 
This is all part of a greater pattern of political marketing that gives you public service ads featuring governors climbing mountains in the name of tourism, and mayors explaining the finer points of recycling. We're lucky that the law limits federal officials' opportunities to follow suit. Otherwise we'd be seeing Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill reminding us to turn in our pennies, and John Ashcroft telling everyone to cross at the corner or else.
The administration of New York's mayor, Rudolph Giuliani, offers a number of useful examples of how a chief executive can become a multimedia celebrity on the back of tax cuts and public service announcements. (Actually, there are very few things in life that haven't been covered by the Giuliani era. If you're concerned about whether ferrets make good pets or wondering if it might be interesting to know more about your own mayor's sex life, we have a precedent for you.)
Four years ago, when he was running for re-election, Mr. Giuliani recorded public service ads reminding New Yorkers that they were about to get improved mass transportation services. ("Free transfers. Free ferries. One city, one fare. I'm Rudy Giuliani.") The mayor credited himself with helping commuters to make a smooth transition to the new system, although it's hard to know how ferry riders could have screwed up their new responsibility to not pay any fare. 
Connecticut residents got a tax rebate check in 1999, along with a letter from the governor, John Rowland. "The rebates made it income, which made the money taxable," said Bill Curry, a former state comptroller. "They would have given them more money by just adjusting the tax code, but they wanted the letter so badly they were willing to cut the feds in for a quarter of the deal." Mr. Curry is thinking about seeking the Democratic nomination to run against Mr. Rowland. Another possible candidate, the Senate majority leader, George Jepsen, is currently starring in a privately funded public service ad urging citizens to observe safety in the use of sparklers during fireworks season.
Years ago, New York street sweeper trucks would blare a recording of Mayor Ed Koch warning that cars would be towed if they got in the way, and that was pretty traumatic for all concerned. But generally, this lust for public education runs only in the direction of good news. "I would have no problem with the I.R.S.'s inclusion of Bush's name if it were included on all mailings," wrote Erik Enquist in his newsletter, The Facts. Mr. Enquist wants to see a note informing homeowners that "The I.R.S. and President George W. Bush hereby notify you that a lien has been placed on your home." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (85%); CITY GOVERNMENT (85%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INCOME TAX (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); GOVERNORS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MOUNTAINS (62%); SALES REBATES (58%) TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); JIM GILMORE (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (55%) COLLINS, GAIL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



570 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Bush Leans Against Support for Stem-Cell Research, Aides Say 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala., June 21 

 BODY:
Under pressure from anti-abortion groups and Roman Catholic leaders, the White House is leaning toward revoking regulations issued by the Clinton administration that allow federally sponsored biomedical research using cells from human embryos, administration officials say.
 But the decision has been delayed by several weeks, the officials say, giving Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services and the leading advocate within the administration for using federal money to underwrite the research, more time to buttress his case. 
 Mr. Thompson is now armed with a new report from the National Institutes of Health that concludes that stem cells extracted from embryos, mostly from fertility clinics that would otherwise dispose of them, are even more promising for developing cures for a range of debilitating diseases than stem cells from the bones and organs of adults. 
As the administration debated the issue in Washington today, President Bush came here to argue for a passage of a $450 million budget request for the Land and Water Conservation Fund, a program that is more than three decades old but has never been fully financed by Congress.
Much of the money is supposed to be paid to states to conserve natural resources and protect parkland, but environmentalists have argued that Mr. Bush is simply shuffling budget lines around, cutting some more specific conservation programs to pay for this one.
Mr. Bush said at the state park here that "federal money is most useful when it comes without strings." Under his proposal, he said, "you could use the money to buy parkland, you can use it to protect endangered species."
Later this evening, Mr. Bush appeared at a $1,000-a-plate fund-raiser that raised about $1.6 million for Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama.
The debate over stem-cell research has divided the administration quite publicly and quite sharply. Mr. Thompson's sparring partner has been Karl Rove, the president's chief political adviser, who fears alienating conservative voters who make up Mr. Bush's base, as well as the Roman Catholic Church.
If Mr. Bush makes his decision by mid-July, it will be just before he visits the Vatican on a trip to Italy for the annual economic summit of major industrialized nations.
"The debate has taken place right in front of the president," one administration official said today, "but he is not ready to make a decision yet. He may not be ready for a number of weeks."
Today Mr. Bush's press secretary, Ari Fleischer, said that "the president has not made up his mind." 
One indication of how the White House is leaning came earlier this week then the administration addressed a related issue: how to deal with a variety of bills now in Congress that would make human cloning a federal crime.
There is virtually unanimous agreement on Capitol Hill that the government should prevent the creation of cloned babies. But Mr. Bush this week endorsed a bill that would go much further, preventing the creation of cloned human embryos that are used for research, rather than reproduction.
Embryonic stem cells are believed to hold enormous promise as an all-purpose material for patching up the body and replacing failing tissues and organs. The cells can morph into any given type of body cell, just as they do as an individual develops in the womb from a fertilized egg.
Researchers hope that the cells could create new treatments for illnesses ranging from diabetes to Parkinson's disease to some cancers.
Various compromise proposals are circulating in the White House that would allow research to proceed, but only with the handful of embryonic cell lines already established, chiefly from embryos that are only a few days old. Many scientists firmly oppose the idea because a number of lines must be studied, they say, in order to find the few that have the most therapeutic promise.
"A finite number would be sufficient," said Dr. Irving Weissman, a leading stem cell expert at the Stanford University School of Medicine. "If we had 10 to 15 cell lines, no one would complain." 
Mr. Bush's position came under attack today from several fellow Republicans.
Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania said any effort to ban the use of embryos for research would be "very disquieting." Mr. Specter also noted that many Republicans who fiercely oppose abortion, including Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, supported the research.
In a letter to the White House recently, Senator Hatch called the research "consistent with bedrock pro-life, pro-family values" and said the ethical issues it raises were "fundamentally different" from those surrounding abortion.
Senator Specter said "it may well be that we have more than 70 votes in the United States Senate" to remove any ban on such research. He spoke at a hearing on Capitol Hill on the need for more research money for blood cancers like leukemia.
"It's different having an embryo in a dish than having one in a woman's womb," Senator Specter said. "Having an embryo in a woman's womb is having a life. In a dish, it's just going to be discarded."
As Senator Specter's comments suggest, the Bush administration has found itself caught between two powerful groups: abortion opponents and the powerful advocates of biomedical research. 
Having rejected the compromise fashioned by the Clinton administration, that federally supported researchers could use but not themselves derive cell lines drawn from embryos, Mr. Bush has been groping to come up with a workable position. He has rarely spoken on the subject. But in a letter to an anti-abortion group recently, he wrote, "I oppose federal funding for stem cell research that involves destroying living human embryos."
He added, "I support innovative medical research on life-threatening and debilitating diseases, including promising research on stem cells from adult tissue." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (91%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); ABORTION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); BIOLOGY (77%); CLONING (77%); HUMAN CLONING (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); STATE PARKS (72%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (67%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (67%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STEM CELLS; RESEARCH; EMBRYOLOGY (FETOLOGY) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (83%); LAND & WATER CONSERVATION FUND (56%) HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOMMY THOMPSON (73%); KARL ROVE (58%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL; THOMPSON, TOMMY G (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (68%) ALABAMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); HOLY SEE (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



571 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2786 words

HEADLINE: Rage Against the Fed; 
Interest Rates Put Student Stock Club in a Malaise

BYLINE:  By N. R. KLEINFIELD

DATELINE: EDISON, N.J. 

 BODY:
Nirav Patel couldn't get over it. He was a wordy person. Agitated, he had even more to say. "He's a genius," he conceded to Anish Vora, his best friend. "But he also does retarded things. This goes down as retarded." 
"Calm down," Anish said, cheerfully composed. 
 "I can't," Nirav said. "It really makes me mad." 
 They jostled through the teeming corridors of J. P. Stevens High School. The final bell had sounded, releasing hundreds of students to temporary freedom. The day had cooled since morning. Nirav hadn't. When you're 17, with a large capacity for awe, and your heroes let you down, it can make you twitchy. 
He was mad at Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman. 
In late February, Nirav got up at the weekly Stock Club meeting and let off steam. After a splendid January, the markets had been ticking downward, and then they took a nice upward bounce on speculation that the Federal Reserve would cut interest rates again. 
"But Greenspan didn't lower rates, and the markets went down a lot," Nirav told the club. "I was watching on TV as he testified before Congress and he downplayed the bad reports on the economy that came out. I got really mad at that." Maybe his obsession with the stock market was being tested, but this was too much. 
Mostly, Nirav and Anish agreed on their market outlook. One or the other would make a point, and the other would nod and say, "Word," meaning "Really." They contended they had the same brain. In this instance, though, Anish deferred to Mr. Greenspan, who, after all, was a half century older and, in Stock Club, the high swami, admired for his intellect, his beneficent effect on the markets, his ability to say things so recondite that half the time they couldn't understand him. 
There was a definite malaise over Stock Club. The torrent of selling seemed to mock the club. The constructions that the members lived by, that had practically defined the market boom of the 90's -- buy small technology stocks and watch them rise -- had deconstructed. 
They began examining fresh directions. In what once would have been considered heresy, Anish even spoke about "old economy" companies like Coca-Cola and Berkshire Hathaway. The club was unlikely to buy Berkshire Hathaway. One share cost about $65,000. The club had $600. But there was a sour disdain for buying anything. 
Afterward, Nirav and Anish convened at Papa Joe's pizzeria. They dug into an eggplant parmigiana hero (both are vegetarians). They always felt better eating. 
Pretty soon, Nirav began ranting about Mr. Greenspan. Anish shot him a look. 
"You're right, this is sick," Nirav agreed. "I've got a history project and SAT's and I'm mad at Alan Greenspan. Go figure." 

Shopping Rules
A wind-blown Saturday afternoon, and they were languishing in Nirav's living room. In February, the tanking market had erased the gains of January, and the selling fervor hadn't abated now that March was here. The Dow was holding its own at 10,645, but the Nasdaq had stumbled to 2,053, threatening to contract below 2,000 and then who knew where. They figured a good salve for their wounds was a trip to Menlo Park Mall. A close friend, Vikram Venkatraman, joined them; Anish and Nirav considered him an astute analyst of stocks. 
They filed down to the Gap, vibrant with Saturday shoppers. Anish explained their cardinal rule of shopping: "Nothing can cost more than $20, and it has to be at least 50 percent off the regular price." Nothing thrilled them more than a 50 percent off rack with a sign proclaiming, "Take an additional 15 percent off."
It was bizarre. They spent so much time analyzing million-dollar market movements, putting thousands of dollars at risk, and had all the props of a comfortable life, but when it came to buying anything other than a stock they were skinflints. 
Part of their cheapness was the cautionary tone they heard from their parents. They were well off, with expensive houses and luxury cars, but they hadn't grown up that way in India. Nirav's father grew up in a small town where his father earned little teaching elementary school and working the family's tiny wheat and tobacco farm. He arrived in America after college in 1977 with $6 in his pocket. His first job was at a chemical warehouse. Anish's father was one of 11 children. His parents ran a small grocery store. He came to America in 1973 with $8 and two shirts in a suitcase. He started out as a shipping agent. All the time they told their children, "Money doesn't come easily. You don't know how well you have it." It gave them perspective. 
They attacked the racks of clothes with earnestness. 
"Yo, I'm going to get this," Anish said, fingering a blue sweater. "It's 50 percent off."
"Put it back," Nirav said. "It's not worth $20. It's just cotton."
"Forget it," agreed Vik, who was showing strong interest in a $6.99 white sweater.
A little later, at Macy's, Nirav bought pants that were "beyond hot," and Vik bought a dress shirt. It had a snagged thread and he tried to get the sales clerk to take even more off the price, but she wouldn't budge. 
On the way to the arcade, they ran into a throng of girls from school. Anish and Nirav were friendly with many girls, but neither dated anyone steadily. The girls were cheerful, giggling. One said she had thought about calling them last night, but hadn't. Her eyes careened across their faces.
"Why didn't you call?" Nirav asked.
The girls said that they might watch a movie later, and that if they did they would call. Nirav said, "Call my cell." 

Online Obsession
Taco Bell didn't do much late-afternoon business, mostly students craving snacks. Anish nibbled at a meatless taco and washed it down with a Pepsi. 
He stifled a yawn. He had been up late with homework and the Internet. Students complained that Edison was a social vortex, with no real downtown in which to hang out. If they weren't interested in the mall, they went home and communed through AOL Instant Messenger. 
The peak hour to be online was 9:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. Nirav was on the other night, and 55 friends from his buddy list of 160 were talking, a personal record, as far as he knew. "You can ask me the next day what the conversations were about, and I wouldn't remember them," he said. "But they were the best conversations I ever had."
Last year, the Internet became a real issue for Anish. He was online talking and researching stocks two or three hours a night. His grades slipped. His parents threatened to cancel his AOL account.
So he made a pact. He programmed his Instant Messenger to receive mail only from relatives, and kept it that way for a month and a half. It was hard, but it taught him restraint. Now he was generally online only about a half-hour a day, and most of that was related to stocks. "I wish there was no such thing as Instant Messenger," he said. "It's so addictive." 
A classmate with slicked-down hair moped into Taco Bell and Anish nodded and said, "Hey, what up?"
"That's a drug kid," he whispered. "Some of our best students are on weed."
Or Ecstasy or cocaine, he said. Several students had gotten in trouble recently for dealing or using. 
When Anish got home, Nirav was there. Anish mentioned the classmate at Taco Bell. Nirav shook his head, a hint of disgust in the gesture. "Doing drugs is definitely not cool," he said.
"We don't want to destroy our futures, simple as that," Anish said.
Nirav said: "One of our friends, he's so smart. He got involved in drugs really young, like seventh grade. But he got off on his own." 
Anish said: "You won't believe why he got off drugs. He wanted to be a kickboxer."
"Well, it's a reason," Nirav said.
Upstairs in his room, Anish fired up his Dell computer, with a superfast cable connection. On the streaming ticker, the day unspooled. The Dow finished up 96 and the Nasdaq climbed 61. A frown creased Anish's face. In what had become a familiar pattern, some nasty news had come out after the close: Dell Computer missed its quarterly earnings and Nortel Networks, a big fiber-optics equipment maker, warned of rapidly slowing growth. Technology stocks crumbled in after-hours trading. Nortel was getting clobbered. Anish had recently bought 100 shares for his account. 
Nirav said: "I like the Dow stocks more now. I don't like the Nasdaq. I like the older companies. I like how they move. Some days, they'll even go up."
"You're sounding weird," Anish said.
"Yeah, I'm becoming like a 70-year-old investor."

Investment by the Letters
It seemed like Day 1 Billion of the falling market. The Nasdaq hovered at an unthinkable 1,830, the Dow at a pathetic 9,487. Was there no bottom? Fortunately, the list of distractions was growing daily. They were swamped with sweet 16 parties, sometimes two a weekend. One took place on a yacht, another at a big hall. Tests were piling up. 
At the weekly Stock Club meeting in late March, the Dow was off 379 points with an hour left to trade. The market was so abysmal that some members had drifted away. Of the club's assets of $447, $226 hadn't even been invested. Who could blame them? They had begun with $610, and watched it wither. 
Several mopey students played cards. One said, "You can make more money playing cards than playing the market." Another was off giving blood. Someone said, "It's gotten so bad, they're selling blood to meet margin calls."
Friends who weren't into stocks but were cognizant of the dismal market had been worried about Nirav and Anish. A girl Nirav knew from another school hadn't heard from him in awhile. She called him up: "How are you? Are you all right? Is there anything I can do?"
He said, "I'm fine." 
And they were fine. Anish had basically decided not to trade anything in his battered personal portfolio, heavy in technology. He believed that his picks were solid (at least he hoped so) and he was going to hold them. 
"I'm sort of a stoic," he said. "The market moves both ways. I'm sort of happy this happened to me at an early age. When it comes time to deal with a big portfolio, I'll know what to do."
Nirav said: "I've become more obsessed. I've learned you have to research companies even more."
Neither had fared well in the latest club virtual tournament. Nirav finished 21st out of 32, down 6.65 percent; Anish was 29th, down 26.46 percent, on some poor technology bets. 
Anish and Nirav really enjoyed these monthly events and they had been potent competitors, though the thing was, you had to concentrate on speculative high-risk stocks to win. Students made trades no sane person would make in real life, brazen, bet-the-ranch trades.
Charles Babich, the Stock Club adviser, recognized that, but with the down market, he saw it as teaching the students a valuable, if unintended, lesson. Short-term trading was a fool's trap -- it didn't pay off unless there was an unrelenting boom market or you got very lucky.
Later on, up in his room with Nirav, Anish decided to set up his portfolio for a new MarketPlayer contest. He picked a few favorites, then was stuck for ideas.
"My father invests like 5 to 10 percent of his portfolio in crazy stuff," he said. "Like once he bought this company in part because its symbol was his initials."
"Why don't you try your initials?" Nirav said.
Anish typed in AMV. Up came AmeriVest Properties, a real estate investment trust trading at $5.95 and yielding 8.4 percent.
"Oh my God, this may be a great company," Anish said. "I'm going to buy it."
"Try my initials," Nirav said. "NAP."
National Processing materialized on the screen -- up 100 percent in the past year of a cratering market.
"Why don't we start investing in our initials?" Anish said. "We'd be so rich."
They howled with laughter.

Visiting the Holy Land
Under way at 9 a.m. for the field trip to the New York Stock Exchange, the much-anticipated highlight of the year. The yellow school bus, packed with 34 Stock Club members, threaded its way through morning traffic, bound for Wall Street. For the first time, Anish and Nirav would be able to gaze upon the sacraments of their obsession.
It was a crisp, sunny mid-April morning. Anish and Nirav were all freshness and resilience. They hoped for an exhilarating trading day -- big volume, big moves.
It was a week of key earnings reports, and the market was jittery. The Dow was at 10,217, the Nasdaq at 1,923. The picture had looked dour on Monday, when Cisco, the Internet infrastructure giant, offered a gloomy forecast for its next quarter. But the next day Intel reported decent earnings, and market professionals seemed relieved and poised to buy. 
The bus parked in front of Trinity Church, and everyone bounded out. Across the street loomed a gull-gray building, the New York Stock Exchange. They filed through the maze of people, looking for the visitors' entrance. A nearby building caught Nirav's eye. It was J. P. Morgan's offices. "Oh my God, that's where we want to work," he said.
"Oh, yes," Anish said.
As they waited for the elevators to the balcony overlooking the trading floor, the noise picked up. The reason was immediately evident in the news flash on the TV screen tuned to CNBC. In a surprise act, Alan Greenspan and the Federal Reserve had just cut interest rates by 50 basis points, the fourth cut of the year. Instantaneously, the markets erupted.
The students watched the stocks whoosh across the screen, almost every one rising. Juniper Networks moved across, up 11 points. One student said, "My dad just bought Juniper."
Anish said, "Apple's even up."
Nirav said, "JDSU up 3."
Anish said, "Oh my god, Home Depot is up 10 percent."
Their guide, John Kret, greeted them and said, "Welcome to the New York Stock Exchange, the greatest stock exchange in the world."
He glanced at the indicators on an electronic board, and said, "O.K., the market is up, wow, 380 points and we've done 700 million shares. You should come back tomorrow." 
He opened the door and they moved onto the balcony. Bellowing noise assaulted their senses. The scene electrified them: a scruffy, disheveled, high-ceilinged labyrinth, occupied by a crush of people, all motion and arms flapping. Brokers and clerks in colored smocks clustered around a scattering of horseshoe-shaped kiosks where the stocks traded. There was no room for wastebaskets, so harried brokers just flung used order slips on the floor. High-decibel shrieks -- calls to buy or sell -- echoed from far corners of the room. You could practically smell money being made.
Over the din, Mr. Kret regaled them with basic facts: "The New York Stock Exchange is the largest stock exchange in the world. If you thought it was Nasdaq, you were wrong. We have 3,000 listed companies here. These companies are worth $18 trillion. When I went to school, I didn't think they had a word trillion."
The Dow was up 399.23.
The students expressed their concerns about the atrocious market over the past year, and Mr. Kret said: "I'm going to tell you how to turn the market around. You're going to tell everybody you know to buy all the stocks traded here, and the stock market will be up and will continue to be up because people will be feeling good. I'm telling you, it's an emotional business."
The Dow was up 438.47.
When their time had elapsed, they tidily trundled out, full of wonder. Anish said: "It was so beautiful. I couldn't believe I was out there."
Nirav said, "You see all this hype and then you see it there, and it's so amazing." 

Rising Markets, Rising Hopes
Anish and Nirav sat in Subway after school. Another benign day for the market -- the Dow up 77 points and the Nasdaq 104. 
It had been decided that next year Anish and Nirav would serve as co-presidents of Stock Club. They were already chewing over new possibilities, while hoping to perpetuate the discipline of this year.
They talked about summer plans. They were thinking of taking some finance courses at New York University and working at an Internet provider owned by a friend's father. 
"It's going to be so cool," Nirav said. 
"I can't wait," Anish said.
With the market showing vigor, Anish was contemplating trading some stocks. His portfolio, worth $32,000 seven months ago, had shrunk to about $21,000. As for Stock Club, its portfolio had made some headway recently but was still down roughly 30 percent for the school year.
They thought about where the markets were heading, trying to gauge their future levels the way all the big-deal market soothsayers did. 
"A year from now, Nasdaq at 3,000," Anish said.
Nirav flashed a big smile. "Yeah," he said, "That's what I think. And the Dow at 11,500."
Light was draining from the sky, but the air was warm. As they ate, they nodded their heads at the inscrutability of it all. Markets rose and markets fell, and one day never foretold the next. They were ready to go home, get on the computer, see how the stocks were moving.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 4, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on June 22 about high school students who invest in the stock market misidentified the person shopping for clothes with Anish Vora. He is Vikram Venkatraman, not Nirav Patel.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nirav Patel, left, and Anish Vora shop for clothes, an activity that turns them into tightwads. Rules include a $20 limit. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B6); Anish Vora, a Stock Club member, on a visit to the financial district in Manhattan, left. Above, checking his stock portfolio from his home computer. (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); RESTAURANTS (60%); MEAT FREE DIETS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (51%); COCA-COLA CO (51%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (51%); BRK.A (NYSE) (51%); KO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (51%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (51%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



572 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Art and Oil Are at Center of Montana Fight 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WEATHERMAN DRAW, Mont., June 20 

 BODY:
As remote as this place seems here in south-central Montana, a rambling valley of sagebrush and towering rocks far from any town, one is never truly alone. Looking on from scores of vantage points are colorful images of men and animals, among other illustrations, that were painted on the rock walls perhaps 1,000 years ago.
 Indian tribes that trace the presence of their ancestors here say they believe the spirits of their elders remain, making these 4,200 acres about 50 miles south of Billings a sacred place to them. Their name for Weatherman Draw is Valley of the Chiefs, and their oral histories teach that even enemies dropped their weapons to share the valley in peace. 
 Yet now, the valley and its fading ancient art are at the center of a major conflict, one of the first that illustrates the kind of dispute that erupts when the nation struggles to balance energy needs with environmental and cultural concerns.
In time, the conflict here might provide a model for resolving similar conflicts throughout the West. 
Just a quarter-mile from the heart of the valley, a Denver company, Anschutz Exploration, wants to explore for oil. Company officials say the valley might sit atop as many as 10 million barrels -- 420 million gallons -- making it a welcome addition to the country's fuel supply, said Bill Miller, a company vice president. 
Anschutz is owned by Philip F. Anschutz, one of the country's wealthiest businessmen and a major Republican donor. 
For more than seven years his oil company sought permission to drill here. But it was not until February, after President Bush took office, that the Bureau of Land Management approved one exploratory well.
Opponents to commercial development in the area, including 10 native tribes, the Sierra Club and the National Trust for Historic Preservation, immediately charged political favoritism and appealed the decision, saying that the bureau in 1999 had recognized Weatherman Draw as an area of critical environmental concern, a designation that creates protections against development.
Pointing to drawings in a more accessible part of the valley that have been severely vandalized for at least 100 years, the opponents argued that exploring for oil, to say nothing of finding it, would lead to the demise of the art and an end to the valley's sacredness for tribes, whose members still visit.
But because the original request for the permit preceded the new designation, the bureau denied the appeal last month. Today, the opposing groups filed another appeal with the Interior Department.
"This is an industry that wants to return to a time of unfettered access," Kathryn Hohmann, a regional representative for the Sierra Club, said during a two-mile hike into the valley today. "We want other values on the same land to be considered."
Ms. Hohmann said the Sierra Club believes that by granting the permit after Mr. Bush was inaugurated, the bureau was bowing to new energy policies that are more accommodating to the gas and oil industries than were those in the Clinton administration, and also to an important Republican benefactor. Those accusations were strongly denied by land bureau officials and the corporation. 
"Who was elected didn't make any difference, and saying that this represents new energy policy is just wrong," said Thomas P. Lonnie, a senior official with the Bureau of Land Management in Montana. 
Amid all the accusations and denials, the latest appeal and the new legislation in Congress that would bar mining activities in Weatherman Draw, efforts have begun to resolve the issue. And both sides say the efforts, involving direct negotiations between the tribes and the company, demonstrate how other disputes could be settled.
Today, Mr. Miller and tribe representatives, along with Mr. Lonnie and aides to Montana's members of Congress, met in Billings to air concerns and consider an offer from the Blackfeet tribe to exchange the Weatherman Draw permit for the right to drill on the Blackfeet Reservation in northwest Montana.
Jimmy St. Goddard, a member of the Blackfeet Tribal Business Council, said the reservation sits on two billion barrels of oil reserves. A swap, he said, would give the Anschutz company access, preserve Weatherman Draw for all the tribes and create jobs for the Blackfeet, a tribe of 15,400 that is suffering with an unemployment rate of 62 percent.
Mr. St. Goddard said the tribes agreed to meet within the next week or so, after which a formal offer would be made to the company.
Mr. Miller assured the tribes that no drilling would begin until this new option was explored. In response, Mr. St. Goddard said the tribes would consider withdrawing the appeal before the Interior Department.
"We've been operating in the Rocky Mountain West for 40 years," Mr. Miller said. "These people are our neighbors, and this is an incredibly important issue to them. We'll deal with them forthrightly."
Even Ms. Hohmann seemed impressed. "Great," she said, upon learning that a deal was in the works. "But if that doesn't come through," she quickly added, "we might take the fight to Congress."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kirk Koepsel of the Sierra Club with his daughter, Katya, at Weatherman Draw, the site of ancient Indian drawings. A company's plan to explore for oil near the site has drawn protests from the club and Indian tribes. (Larry Mayer for The New York Times) Map of Montana highlighting Weatherman Draw: Ancient drawings make Weatherman Draw a sacred tribal site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); HISTORY (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (87%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (87%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); VANDALISM (69%); ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); APPEALS (62%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ARCHAEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; INDIANS, AMERICAN; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; ART 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (84%); NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (59%) ANSCHUTZ EXPLORATION CORP; SIERRA CLUB; NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION 

PERSON: PHILIP ANSCHUTZ (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BILLINGS, MT, USA (79%) MONTANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) WEATHERMAN DRAW (MONTANA)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2001 



573 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: A Wrong Turn on Patients' Rights 

BYLINE:  By Marcia Angell; Marcia Angell, senior lecturer in social medicine at the Harvard Medical School, is former editor in chief of The New England Journal of Medicine.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
The Congressional debate over a patients' rights bill has mostly concerned the right to sue managed care companies: the Kennedy-McCain bill makes this right more expansive than the Frist-Jeffords bill does. That debate misses the point. Either bill, or any similar one, will make a bad situation worse.
 I say this despite the fact that I am no fan of managed care and would like very much to see medical decisions restored to patients and doctors. But a patients' rights bill will not do that. It will just hasten the collapse of managed care without putting anything in its place. The result will be an increase in the number of uninsured Americans and more out-of-pocket expenses for those who are insured. 
 Most Americans get health insurance through their employers, who pay managed care companies fixed amounts to cover their workers. These insurers have a strong incentive to scrimp on medical care -- placing limits, for example, on hospital stays, emergency room use and specialist care -- since they can keep whatever is left for profits and overhead. If a patients' rights bill works as planned, this scrimping will be harder. Besides allowing suits, all bills provide other protections, including the right to appeal denial of care and easier access to emergency rooms. All of this will add costs that will be passed along to the people who pay the bills -- mainly employers and workers.
We have already had a foretaste of this effect. During the past couple of years, workers have begun to demand that employers choose less restrictive managed care plans, and many employers complied because during a period of full employment they were competing for workers. Legislatures also passed some limited patient protection bills, including Congress's measure requiring that at least 48 hours' hospitalization be offered for childbirth. Sure enough, partly because of the loosening grip of managed care, premiums -- which had remained stable during the mid-90's -- began to rise rapidly. Last year, they grew by more than 8 percent while inflation overall was about 3 percent. This year, they are predicted to rise even faster.
What many Americans don't realize is that our employment-based health care system is entirely voluntary. Employers do not have to offer health benefits at all, they do not have to pay the full costs when they do, and workers do not have to accept benefits. If premiums get too high, employers will either drop health benefits or cap their contributions, leaving more for workers to pay. Workers will become more likely to refuse altogether whatever health benefits are offered (about a fifth turn down benefits now because they can't afford their share of the premiums).
We have had a foretaste of this, too. Employers used to pay, on average, about 80 percent of the cost of an employee's health insurance. Now, with prices rising, many contribute only a set dollar amount, so that as prices continue to increase, workers will pay larger shares. The fundamental problem is that it is impossible to regulate a strictly voluntary system. Attempts to do so lead to the paradox of less rather than more coverage.
Patients' rights bills illustrate the main problem with incremental approaches to the failures of managed care. They have unintended consequences because they deal with the effects, rather than the underlying causes, of the system's failures. They do not change the perverse incentives that pit the economic interests of managed care companies and employers against the health needs of patients, and they do not reduce the huge overhead expenses, many of which are directed toward limiting services. 
It is becoming apparent to nearly everyone that our experiment with private managed care has failed. The system is imploding, and a patients' rights bill, by increasing costs, will accelerate its demise. High time. But without anything in its place, many Americans will be left without adequate health coverage during the system's death throes. We need to begin now to put something in its place.
The answer is a single-payer system that covers everyone and more efficiently uses the resources we allocate to health care. That is tantamount to extending Medicare to all Americans. Medicare is not perfect, but it provides a uniform set of benefits to nearly everyone who qualifies, and it does so far more efficiently than the private employment-based system. Extending and improving Medicare would be simpler and more realistic than trying to shore up a fundamentally irrational system by measures like patients' rights bills. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE (74%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); MEDICARE (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; MEDICARE 

PERSON: ANGELL, MARCIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



574 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Turkish Court Bans Religious Party, Main Opposition Force 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, June 22 

 BODY:
Turkey's messy political system suffered another jolt today when the country's highest court banned the religious-oriented Virtue Party. The court said the main opposition party violated a law that prohibited religious activities that could undermine the secular government.
 The court stopped short of expelling large numbers of the party from Parliament, a move that would have automatically led to new elections because it would have left more than 5 percent of the Parliament seats vacant. The party controls 102 of the 550 seats. Most of the rest are split among the three governing parties. 
 The decision was announced after financial markets had closed here, but it seems highly likely to contribute to the turmoil that has seen the currency plunge, thousands of businesses close and 500,000 Turks lose their jobs since February.
Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit ruled out early elections, saying the country had to deal with its economic difficulties. "An atmosphere of an early election does not exist in any way," Mr. Ecevit told reporters before the court announced its decision. "We are trying to solve the problems accumulated over the years. Even mentioning early elections is out of the question."
Closing the Virtue Party will alter the political equation at a time when Mr. Ecevit's three-party coalition already faces strains in its effort to restore economic stability and to carry out changes demanded by international agencies in exchange for $16 billion in loans.
In its ruling, the Constitutional Court found that the party was a focus of "Islamic and antisecular activities." Two members were expelled from Parliament, and five others were banned from politics for five years, which means they cannot join or form a party in that period.
Among the banned members of Parliament was Merve Kavakci, who caused a stir two years ago when she was denied permission to take the oath of office because she refused to remove her head scarf. Many conservative Turks view a head scarf as a symbol of Islamic piety. But the law bars civil servants and students from wearing them because of their religious connotations.
"It was decided by majority vote that the Virtue Party will be permanently closed for activities contrary to the principle of the secular republic," Chief Justice Mustafa Bumin told reporters in Ankara, where the decision was announced.
A large contingent of Virtue Party members threatened this week to resign if the party was closed. Most experts said the members would move to existing parties or form a new party. The Virtue Party's popularity has fallen in recent months, along with the popularity of the governing parties.
Oner Ayan, manager of emerging markets at Raymond James, the investment bank in New York, said the financial markets were quite unlikely to have a strong reaction unless a large number of party members resigned after the court decision, raising the prospect of elections.
The European Union, which is weighing Turkey's candidacy for membership, is widely expected to criticize the decision, even though it is legal to ban parties in Europe, and Germany is in the process of shutting down a neo-fascist organization. 
In most cases, however, European parties are banned for advocating or participating in violence. The Virtue Party was closed for nonviolent activities more often defined as thought crimes.
"The Europeans tend to expect real violence or potential action among the reasons to ban a party," said Cagri Erhan, deputy director of European research at Ankara University.
The Virtue Party sprang full grown from the ashes of the Welfare Party, which became the country's most powerful Islamic-oriented party in 1996, when its leader, Necmettin Erbakan, became prime minister in a coalition government.
The coalition collapsed after a year in office under heavy pressure from the powerful military, which considers itself the guardian of the secular system. The military and opposition politicians argued that Mr. Erbakan had given crucial government jobs to people who supported Islamic law. After the Welfare Party was ousted from government, a court closed it, Mr. Erbakan was banned from politics for life, and most supporters made a smooth transition to the new Virtue Party.
This time, however, political Islam seems more fragmented. Former Mayor Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Istanbul, a former party member, has indicated that he will form a moderate Islamic party, though he is still banned from politics.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Virtue Party leader, Recai Kutan, flanked by aides at Friday Prayers in Ankara. The party had 102 of the 550 seats in Parliament. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); POLITICS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CHURCH & STATE (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); CLOSINGS (69%); TRENDS (69%) DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; ISLAM; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: FRANTZ, DOUGLAS; ECEVIT, BULENT (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) TURKEY (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%) TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



575 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Spot Weaknesses In DiFrancesco's Budget Plan 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 22 

 BODY:
A revised state budget of $22.9 billion was formally introduced in the New Jersey Legislature late Thursday night, featuring millions of dollars of election-year property-tax rebates, a $1 billion surplus and, Democrats asserted, millions in questionable revenues.
 Hours after the inch-thick document arrived from the printer, partisan skirmishing started. 
 Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco, whose aides helped draft the budget with fellow Republicans on legislative budget committees, called it an example of prudent fiscal management, providing a record surplus without layoffs or cuts in essential state services. 
"At first glance, this appears to be a budget that puts taxpayers first," Mr. DiFrancesco said.
Democrats, however, were quick to disagree. "This budget reflects flawed assumptions and misplaced priorities," said Senator Bernard F. Kenny, the ranking Democrat on budget and appropriations committee. He focused his criticism on a deepening dispute about how sharply major tax revenues will drop because of the economic slowdown.
The DiFrancesco administration and Republican leaders put the decline at about $948 million for the rest of this fiscal year and for all of fiscal 2002, which starts on July 1. But the Office of Legislative Services, an independent state agency that monitors fiscal issues, contends that the falloff will be $1.6 billion.
Mr. Kenny said Republican leaders had imperiled the state's fiscal future by basing the budget on the administration's revenue forecast. He also argued that the budget included some $400 million in new revenue that has not been carefully analyzed and was not in the $23.2 billion budget that Christie Whitman proposed last January before she left the governor's office.
"Fiscal gimmicks like those used in the budget should have no place in our state's finances," Mr. Kenny said.
Senator Robert E. Littell, a Republican and head of the budget and appropriations committee, called the budget wise and reasonable. He said it improved on Mrs. Whitman's proposal by, among other things, adding $294 million for property-tax rebates, $75 million more for health care forelderly and low-income residents, and $14 million more for education.
The revised budget trims about $226 million from Mrs. Whitman's proposal, including $18 million for two environmental projects that she proposed. One sought $10 million to rebuild abandoned factories in urban centers into high-tech offices; the other sought $8 million for land preservation.
About $66 million was cut from the Department of Corrections, including nearly $57 million that the department pays to county jails to relieve overcrowding in state prisons by taking state inmates. State prisons house fewer prisoners now, reducing the need for the transfers, officials said. 
The revised budget eliminates a $65 million insurance fund the state maintained to bail out any towns that defaulted on bond payments. It provides more money for Mr. DiFrancesco's favorite projects, including about $41 million in subsidies for medical insurance for low-income residents and $25 million to reimburse hospitals for costs of treating the poor.
The budget also has an extra $294 million for property-tax rebates, which Mr. DiFrancesco wanted. One of the rebates, the New Jersey Saver program, will provide homeowners an average of $500 this September, up from the current average of $240. The other, the Homestead Rebate, will give elderly and disabled residents $750 this fall, a $250 increase from the current annual payment.
Over all, the budget contains total resources of nearly $24 billion, including about $22.8 million in new income and about $1.1 billion left from the current budget. Proposed spending is $22.9 million, leaving the $1 billion surplus.
To offset the declines in revenue from income, sales and corporation business taxes, the revised budget has about $621 million in income that the Whitman budget did not contain. About $420 million will come, officials said, by closing a what they called a loophole in the corporation business tax. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PRISONS (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); HEALTH CARE (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); BONDS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; TAXATION 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT; DIFRANCESCO, DONALD T (ACTING GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



576 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Profit Fears, Focused on Drug Makers, Push Indexes Down

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks slumped yesterday as the corporate-earnings warnings that have plagued Wall Street in recent weeks spread to the drug giant Merck & Company.
 "Until we see a shift in earnings momentum, investors are going to be gun-shy about getting aggressive," said Peter Gottlieb, portfolio manager at First Albany Asset Management, which oversees $600 million. 
 "There is an inclination given the last few quarters -- with all the preannouncements that have come out -- to wait for all the surprises to pass," he said. 
Investors, swamped with corporate profit warnings, are looking to the Federal Reserve's policy-setting meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday for relief. The Fed is expected to lower interest rates by at least a quarter percentage point, but many investors are hoping for a cut of half a percentage point.
News that United States military forces in the Persian Gulf region were put on alert weighed on the market in late afternoon. A United States official said indications of a possible attack by anti-American guerrillas led to the alert.
"It dropped the market, and we were able to fill some buys that we wouldn't otherwise have been able to fill," said Ted Oberhaus, manager of equity trading at Lord Abbett & Company. "There was uncertainty, and everybody was trying to flatten out their position ahead of the weekend."
The Dow Jones industrial average ended down 110.84 points, or 1 percent, at 10,604.59. Merck contributed to 40 percent of the blue-chip gauge's decline and helped push its fellow Dow component, Johnson & Johnson, down 63 cents, to $52.39.
The Nasdaq composite index fell 23.92 points, or 1.2 percent, to 2,034.84. The fiber optic parts maker JDS Uniphase, up 85 cents, at $11.76, and the networking computer company Sun Microsystems, up 14 cents, at $14.47, offered support to the technology-rich index.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 11.69 points, or nearly 1 percent, at 1,225.35.
Merck sank $6.67, to $67.80, after the drug maker warned that full-year earnings would be below projections because of weak sales of its arthritis drug Vioxx and the strong dollar's cutting into overseas sales.
Schering-Plough lost $2.65, to $37.90, after saying United States regulators found new manufacturing deficiencies at some of its drug plants, increasing fears the introduction of new drugs would be delayed.
The American Stock Exchange pharmaceutical index lost 3.56 percent with all 15 of its components ticking lower.
"Drugs are killing us," said Tom Schrader, head of listed trading at Legg Mason Wood Walker Inc. "Merck won't make its numbers; Schering is under investigation. This group has been a bastion of safety for the past few months, and now it's getting slaughtered."
Symantec dropped $22.41, or 37 percent, to $38.90, after the Internet security firm cut its earnings expectations, blaming weak technology spending and adverse foreign-exchange rates.
Treasury bond prices rose as dealers bet the Federal Reserve would lower interest rates for the sixth time this year.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 12/32, to a price of 99 3/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.12 percent from 5.17 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 24/32, to 97 3/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.58 percent from 5.63 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); US DOLLAR (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (96%); LORD ABBETT & CO (67%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); LEGG MASON WOOD WALKER INC (60%); FIRST ALBANY ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (58%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (53%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (53%); NYSE MKT LLC (51%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (96%); MRK (NYSE) (96%); JNJ (NYSE) (66%); JDU (TSX) (53%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (67%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (53%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



577 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 797 words

PERSON: Sripati Chandrasekhar 

HEADLINE: Sripati Chandrasekhar, Indian Demographer, Dies at 83 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
Sripati Chandrasekhar, an Indian demographer and government minister who fought a tireless and so far losing battle to reduce his country's soaring population, died on June 14 in San Diego, Calif. He was 83.
 He died after two strokes, his wife, Ann Downes Chandrasekhar, said. 
 Dr. Chandrasekhar lived mainly in La Jolla, a section of San Diego, and southern India, but roamed the world teaching and preaching his message that ever more Indians living ever longer lives meant disaster. He urged sterilization for men, easy abortions for women and a voluntary year with no sex for married couples. 
From his perspective, too few people followed his advice. As China reined in the growth of its population, India's has grown from 340 million people at independence in 1947 to more than a billion. It is on course to surpass China's population, now 1.27 billion, by the middle of this century.
"He felt sadness and regret," his wife, said.
In 1967, when India's population was 500 million, Dr. Chandrasekhar warned of dire consequences if the total reached even 600 million. In an interview in U.S. News & World Report, he said he feared that India's government would break down.
"The average citizen is going to face absolute misery," he said."Food supply will dwindle. There will be no living space. We will be reduced to the level of a cabbage patch."
Dr. Chandrasekhar said he feared that India would turn to Communism because of overpopulation and poverty. The Indian government now classifies more than 250 million of its citizens, about a quarter of its population, as desperately poor.
The number of children an Indian woman bears has fallen from six to three since 1950, but this trend has been counterbalanced by longer life spans. That means that population growth, rather than dropping with family size, has persisted, and policies Dr. Chandrasekhar advocated, including applying pressure on men to be voluntarily sterilized, remain topics of fierce debate in India. 
"Our house is on fire," Dr. Chandrasekhar said in 1968, when he was India's minister of health and family planning under Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. With male sterilization, he said, "we can get the blaze under control."
Always, his approach was straightforward. He brought "the moral force of a crusader and the ruthless efficiency of a high-power salesman" to his push for population control, the Indian magazine Yojana said in 1968. Yojana called him a perfectionist "impatient with those who don't match up to his exacting standards."
He literally regarded no cow as sacred, enraging Hindu militants in the 1960's by urging Indians to eat beef. A militant Hindu party, Jan Singh, denounced him, saying, "Such an ignorant and offensive person has no business to be a minister."
Obstacles were strewn on the path to population control. Dr. Chandrasekhar battled the custom of very early marriage for Indian women, the opposition of Mohandas K. Gandhi to artificial birth control methods and a governmental policy of relying on the rhythm method for India's first 10 years of independence.
While his battle had many fronts, Dr. Chandrasekhar's central message could not have been plainer: "The simple sex act must be a responsible act," he said. 
Dr. Chandrasekhar, the son of a teacher and author, was born on Nov. 22, 1918. While he was a teenage student at Madras Presidency College, he wrote his first paper on population problems. "From then on, I lived and breathed demography," he said. 
He earned his doctorate from New York University in 1944; his dissertation dealt with India's population problems. Toward the end of World War II, he worked for the American Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency, as an expert on Indian demography.
After the war, he lectured throughout the United States on India's independence struggle. An article in Scientific Monthly in 1946 called him the "unofficial representative and interpreter of India to the United States." 
He then lived the life of the writer and academic, writing hundreds of articles and 32 books and teaching at universities in India, the United States and Europe. His books include "Hungry People and Empty Lands," 1953; "Communist China 'Today,' " 1961, and "American Aid and India's Economic Development," 1965.
A lover of classical music and mystery novels, he sometimes displayed an unabashedly flamboyant side. At the time of his appointment as health minister in 1967, he exuberantly swatted a fly on his desk while being interviewed by a reporter. "Got him!" he whooped. "You can't have a fly on the health minister's desk."
In addition to his wife, Dr. Chandrasekhar is survived by his daughters, Radha Ahlstrom of Seattle; Prema Chandrasekhar of southern India; and Sheila Chandrasekhar of Oakland, Calif.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sripati Chandrasekhar 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); WOMEN (75%); FAMILY (75%); TRENDS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); ABORTION (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); FIRES (61%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

CHANDRASEKHAR, SRIPATI (DR); MARTIN, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SOUTH INDIA (92%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign) 

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



578 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: Where Apples Don't Pay, Developers Will 

BYLINE:  By LISA W. FODERARO 

DATELINE: MILTON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
In their sun-drenched orchard here in Ulster County, where the McIntosh and Red Delicious apples are still the size of cherries, father and son should be a whirlwind of activity this time of year: spraying and thinning the trees at Hudson Valley Farms, lining up labor for harvest.
 Instead, they will let the fruit fall to the ground this fall. And they are spending their days indoors, in dry contract negotiations with housing developers for the sale of all 650 acres of their orchards -- preparing the obituary, in essence, of a family business that stretches back to the 1920's. 
 "This is the first time in my life that I have not had a crop to tend to," said Bill Palladino, 58, who owns Hudson Valley Farms with his son, Jeff, 31. "It's definitely a naked feeling. You get emotionally attached to your trees, your orchards, your way of life. You miss that." 
That is becoming a familiar refrain in Ulster County, the second largest apple-producing county in a state that is second only to Washington in apple production. Decisions like the Palladinos' reflect enormous changes here and for struggling apple growers around the country. 
After several years of losing money in a depressed market that has devastated apple farmers nationwide, the Palladinos and at least five other growers in the county are selling out. They are taking advantage of the wave of suburban sprawl lapping at the edges of this county 75 miles north of Manhattan. 
In the process, a county where bosky ridges and clear creeks always seemed a safe distance from the city, a place where understated hamlets have captivated permanent residents and weekenders alike, is wondering what the shriveling of the apple industry will bring.
"It's a big concern -- that all this green space will be turned into development," said Suzanne Hauspurg, who, with her husband, Dan, owns the Inn at Stone Ridge. Trying to protect their corner of Eden, the two recently bought a 110-acre apple orchard behind their inn that a builder had been considering.
The apple growers here are not cashing in so much as they are staving off financial ruin. They say that money that arrived last week from the federal government, part of nationwide program to compensate growers for market losses with a maximum payment of $28,295, represents a tiny bandage when what they need is a tourniquet. Some are equally unimpressed with a state program that helps counties buy development rights from farmers but that has yet to produce any final agreements that would keep Ulster land in agriculture.
Since the early 1990's, farmers across the country have suffered as production costs have risen and apple prices have fallen: the result of a worldwide glut of apples, imports of cheap apple-juice concentrate from China, and a continuing consolidation among retailers that reduces farmers' bargaining power. In addition, countries like South Africa, Chile and New Zealand have emerged as major exporters of fresh apples to the United States.
Last year, the United States International Trade Commission voted unanimously to put punitive anti-dumping duties on apple juice concentrate from China. But some growers say Chinese concentrate is still cheaper than American, even with the imposition of the 52 percent duty.
"Not since the Great Depression have apple growers sustained such losses," said Kraig Naasz, president and chief executive officer of the United States Apple Association in McLean, Va. He said that nationwide, apple farmers have lost $1.5 billion in the past five years. "This coming harvest may mark the last for as many as 30 percent of the nation's apple growers," he said.
In the Hudson Valley, insult was added to the national economic conditions by catastrophic hail storms that wiped out a third of the apple crop last year. The year before, a damaging hurricane punctuated a summer of drought in which farmers spent copiously to irrigate their orchards.
The for-sale signs popping up across Ulster County's orchards are not new, but they mark a startling acceleration of a trend that began more than a decade ago. In 1985, 104 farms covered 11,629 acres in Ulster County. By the end of 1996, the most recent year for which statistics are available, the number of farms had fallen to 63 on 8,632 acres.
Apple farming has continued to dwindle since then, with production ending on more than 1,500 acres in the last year alone.
"You could probably call most growers, and they've got pieces of land up for sale," said Michael J. Fargione, an educator with Cornell Cooperative Extension, a program of Cornell University that provides research information and educational programs to farmers. "I'm not sure people are aware of the critical point we're at in terms of the potential for the loss of farms." 
Most of the remaining orchards are particularly attractive to developers because they lie in towns like Lloyd, Marlborough and Plattekill on the county's eastern edge, closer to the train lines across the Hudson River that lead to New York City. In recent years, as Orange County to the south and Dutchess County to the east have seen a surge in home construction, Ulster has drawn professionals in search of lower prices and open space.
"Ten or twenty years ago, people would say: 'I have a 40-minute commute. Isn't that long?' " said Seth McKee, associate land preservation director of Scenic Hudson, an environmental organization in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., that is assisting Ulster County in its effort to buy development rights from farmers. "Now they say: 'I have an hour commute. Isn't that great?' The development pressures in Ulster are not quite what they are in southern Dutchess, but that doesn't mean it's not going to become that way." 
That is just fine with Dennis and Diane Chaissan, apple farmers who are now subdividing their 350 acres of orchards. They shut down their apple operation in 1999. He got his real estate license; she went back to school for a master's degree in education administration. 
"We didn't see a future in it," Mr. Chaissan said of the apple business begun by his grandfather in 1910. "Over the last 10 years or so, prices have been stagnant or going down. I didn't see a return on the money, and I didn't want to continue. Looking back, I think it was the best decision we ever made."
Mr. Chaissan, a trim 46-year-old with a salt-and-pepper mustache, chose a profession that neatly positioned him to take advantage of his top asset: land. Apple orchards are selling for between $3,000 to $10,000 an acre, depending on the location and factors like slope and drainage. But with zoning approvals in place for housing, the land becomes much more valuable. 
The Chaissans hope to sell four two-and-a-half-acre building lots in the hamlet of Clintondale for $75,000 to $100,000 each. The lots, still covered with trees bearing young Empire and Cortland apples, have magnificent views of the Shawangunk Mountains to the west.
Like other growers, Mr. Chaissan, who works for Colucci Shand Realty in Gardiner, N.Y., could not make the economics of apples work. According to the New York State Apple Association, a bushel of apples that sold for $14 in the mid 1990's now sells for $9. Mr. Chaissan figures that each bushel would cost him about $11 to produce. "Right now growers are pounding their heads against a wall," he said. "They can't make money, and they see no way out."
His career switch was shrewd in another way, too. Mr. Chaissan represents a few of his fellow apple farmers now selling some or all of their orchards. One potential client is Jeffrey D. Crist, a fourth-generation apple grower who owns 500 acres of orchards, half in Ulster County and half in Orange County.
Mr. Crist is weighing a $2.3 million offer from a developer for 227 acres of orchards in the town of Hamptonburgh in Orange County. "At this point, we're not planning to get out of the business, but we can grow apples just as easily on less valuable land farther away from New York City," Mr. Crist said. 
Still, Mr. Crist said his first priority was to pay back his creditors. "I've got loan payments from last year's growing season that are unpaid," he said, adding that revenues were down a half million dollars from the previous year. "We wouldn't invest in other land if it looked like we were going to lose money. The industry picture would have to improve."
Ulster County is now trying to buy development rights from farmers under a state program that would ensure that the land is reserved for agricultural use even if it is sold. But the process is slow. Two years ago, 17 farmers in the county applied, and the state, which contributes 75 percent of the purchase cost, chose two. But those two farmers, both apple growers in Clintondale, have yet to sell.
"It's possible I won't go through with it," said Phil Hurd, an owner of M. G. Hurd & Sons, a 250-acre apple and pear operation dating to the 1890's. "My land is owned by several family members, and it makes it difficult to come to agreement. The program restricts you to farming, which you can't make a profit on, so it's a double-edged sword."
Mr. McKee of Scenic Hudson says conservation programs like these do not happen overnight. "It's time-consuming to have the farmers think about all the possibilities and put it into an agreement that is perpetual," he said. "They rely on this land for their livelihood."
But as a resident of Ulster, Mr. McKee also knows that time is a luxury neither the county nor the apple industry has. "It's very painful to watch the impact of suburban sprawl heading north, but that's all the more reason why these programs are vital," he said. "For weekenders and local folks who have been here for generations, it's the loss of a sense of place. For the farm families, it's hard to watch what used to be a vast expanse being nibbled away."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Orchards in Ulster County, N.Y., are disappearing. Dennis Chaissan plans to sell this one to builders. (Chris Ramirez for The New York Times)(pg. A1); An increasingly familiar sight: Ulster County orchard land for sale. (Chris Ramirez for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPLE ORCHARDS (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); RETAILERS (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); SUBURBS (64%) APPLES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%) ULSTER COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



579 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Three Countries Are Warned To Limit Money Laundering 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22 

 BODY:
The major industrial nations warned Russia and two other countries today that they would face restrictions on their dealings with international banks if they did not make quick progress in clamping down on money laundering.
 A committee that includes the United States and 28 other countries said Russia, the Philippines and Nauru, the Pacific island nation, has done little in the last year to halt flows of illegally earned money through their financial systems. If the three countries do not enact legislation on the problem by Sept. 30, the panel said, they would be subject to sanctions, including tighter monitoring of international banking transactions or denial of permission for their banks to operate in other nations. 
 The Financial Action Task Force in Paris, which operates as an arm of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, also added six countries to a list of those that have not cooperated in cracking down on laundering. They are Burma, Egypt, Guatemala, Hungary, Indonesia and Nigeria. The countrieson the list could ultimately face the same sanctions that are being threatened against Nauru, the Philippines and Russia. 
Four other countries -- the Bahamas, the Cayman Islands, Liechtenstein and Panama -- were removed from the list.
The panel was established by the United States and the six other major industrial democracies more than a decade ago to help combat money laundering. In the last few years, it has stepped up its efforts by adding pressure on countries that it judges to be insufficiently committed to dealing with the problem.
The International Monetary Fund has estimated that at least $590 billion a year, an amount roughly equivalent to the entire annual economic output of Spain, is moved from illicit enterprises through financial institutions around the world. The fund said the figure could be as high as $1.5 trillion a year.
But the task force's power to discipline countries that continue to allow widespread laundering is limited to calling on individual governments to act through their regulators. As the committee has become more aggressive in identifying countries with problems, it has run into questions from the banking industry and some member countries about the best remedies.
In the United States, the Bush administration has been reviewing programs developed by the Clinton administration to crack down on laundering. The Treasury Department is considering whether to ease the reporting requirements on banks by raising, to $25,000 from $10,000, the levels at which financial transactions have to be given extra scrutiny. 
Some members of Congress have expressed concern that imposing tighter reporting requirements on banks could violate customers' privacy rights. 
Bankers have said that efforts to rein in laundering have been complicated by differences between the United States and Europe over how best to crack down on countries that set themselves up as tax havens. Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill has pressed European allies to back off from plans to force countries with lax tax administration, many of them Caribbean nations, to bring their systems into line with those of the big industrial nations.
Much of the focus today was on Russia. The transition in Russia from Communism to capitalism has created a financial free for all in which laws and regulations have remained far behind the sophistication with which legitimate and illegal enterprises move money around the world.
Parliament has been considering laws on money laundering, but has not acted. "Russia faces a unique challenge in combating money laundering as it continues its transition to a market economy," the panel's report said. "The existence of a continued large-scale capital flight, underdeveloped market institutions and lack of fiscal resources all complicate the fight against money laundering."
In Moscow, Aleksandr Babich, deputy director of the center to combat money laundering, said, "This slightly discriminatory attitude and the blacklist are a little political," The Associated Press reported. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY LAUNDERING (93%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (64%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (60%) BANKS AND BANKING; MONEY LAUNDERING 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%) FINANCIAL ACTION TASK FORCE; ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT (OECD) 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PHILIPPINES (94%); NAURU (94%); LIECHTENSTEIN (92%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (92%); EUROPE (92%); BAHAMAS (92%); HUNGARY (92%); INDONESIA (92%); NIGERIA (91%); SPAIN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); FRANCE (79%) RUSSIA; PHILIPPINES; NAURU; BURMA; EGYPT; GUATEMALA; HUNGARY; INDONESIA; NIGERIA; BAHAMA ISLANDS; CAYMAN ISLANDS; LIECHTENSTEIN; PANAMA

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



580 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Appeals Court Rules F.C.C. Illegally Seized Licenses
A federal appeals court threw into chaos plans to upgrade cell phone service across the country when it found that the Federal Communications Commission had illegally confiscated the wireless spectrum licenses of NextWave Personal Communications, which lost them when it went into bankruptcy.
 The court's decision clouds the landscape in the battle among the nation's largest telecommunications companies for valuable licenses that are necessary both for expanding cell phone service and offering new wireless Internet products. Page A1. 

Merck Helps Drag the Dow Down 1%
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 110.84 points, or 1 percent, to 10,604.59, pulled down by Merck, which issued a profit warning. Merck contributed 40 percent of the decline in the Dow, as it lost $6.67, to $67.80. The Nasdaq composite index fell 23.92 points, or 1.2 percent, to 2,034.84. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 11.69 points, or nearly 1 percent, at 1,225.35. C3.

W.T.O. Panel Rules Against U.S.
A World Trade Organization dispute panel has ruled that a United States tax subsidy for businesses violated international trade rules. The interim ruling in favor of the European Union may result in Europe's imposing $4 billion in sanctions against the United States. C2.

Duke Energy Employees Testify
Three employees of a power plant operated by Duke Energy told California legislators that the plant was deliberately run inefficiently, in a way that they said was consistent with efforts to manipulate supply and drive up energy prices. A7.

A Warning on Money Laundering
The major industrial nations warned Russia and two other countries that they would face restrictions on their dealings with international banks if they did not make quick progress in clamping down on money laundering. A task force set up by the United States and 28 other countries said Russia, the Philippines and the Pacific island nation of Nauru had done little in the last year to halt flows of illegally made money through their financial systems. A6.

Effort to Raise Cars' Fuel Economy
Republican leaders in Congress have softened their opposition to higher fuel economy standards for automobiles, raising the possibility that the government could require automakers to improve the efficiency of cars and light trucks for the first time in seven years. A8.

Sara Lee Pleads Guilty to Charges
Sara Lee pleaded guilty to misdemeanor criminal charges that it produced and distributed tainted meat that sickened scores of consumers and was linked to about 15 deaths. The company agreed to pay $4.4 million to settle civil and criminal charges brought after a 1998 nationwide recall of deli meats and hot dogs. The company, led by Steve McMillan, above, its chief executive, said the settlement was a final chapter in the case that caused Sara Lee to recall meat, close factory lines and renovate plants. A9.

Delay for Schering-Plough Drug
The Food and Drug Administration has found more problems with manufacturing practices at Schering-Plough's four factories, further delaying the release of Clarinex, successor to Claritin, its profitable allergy drug. C3.

U.S. Limits Cranberry Crop
The Agriculture Department imposed the strictest limits on the nation's cranberry crop in at least 30 years, to reduce a surplus. C4.

German Business Confidence Falls
German business confidence fell to a two-year low in May, to 90.9 points, according to a monthly survey of 7,000 companies. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart shows the Dow Jones Industrial Index since Jan. 2001. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,604.59 down 110.84Nasdaq composite -- 2,034.84 down 23.9210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.12% down 0.05The euro -- $0.8562 up 0.0014The dollar -- 124.33 yen down 0.09

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (91%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (79%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); WIRELESS REGULATION (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (73%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); POWER PLANTS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); PROFIT WARNINGS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (65%); FOOD RECALLS (63%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); MEATS (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (58%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NAURU (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



581 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Terrorism and Iran: Washington's Policy Performs a Gingerly Balancing Act 

BYLINE:  By JAMES RISEN and JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22 

 BODY:
The United States has never known quite what to do about Iran's role in anti-American terrorism. From the embassy bombings and hostage taking in Lebanon during the early 1980's to the Khobar Towers bombing in Saudi Arabia in 1996, Washington's response to evidence that Tehran was sponsoring violence against American interests has been marked by deep ambivalence and contorted internal debates among several generations of policy makers.
 To critics who advocate a harder line toward Iran, the government's indictment of 13 Saudis and a Lebanese in the Khobar Towers bombing, handed down Thursday, just short of Monday's five-year anniversary of the attack, once again revealed an American reluctance to tackle Tehran head-on on state-sponsored terrorism. United States officials have said they have evidence of Iranian involvement, and at a news conference announcing the indictment, Attorney General John Ashcroft charged that Iranian officials "inspired, supported and supervised members of Saudi Hezbollah" in the attack. But prosecutors stopped short of bringing charges against any individual Iranian officials. 
 "Why haven't we been more forward leaning on Iran?" asked one former United States official familiar with the long debate in the government over the Khobar Towers case. "The intelligence on Iran is pretty strong, and they could have named names of Iranian officials." 
But even Thursday's rather limited indictment has stirred up a hornet's nest in the volatile Persian Gulf region, as Iran denied any role in the bombing and Saudi Arabia disputed American jurisdiction in the case. That underscored the difficult balancing act American policy makers confront whenever dealing with Iran on the issue of terrorism.
For diplomatic and economic reasons, Washington has declined to lean heavily on Saudi Arabia either to extradite suspects it holds in the bombing attack that killed 19 American servicemen and wounded 372 others, or to crack down on the Saudi branch of Hezbollah.
In addition, Pentagon officials said today that American forces in the gulf region had been placed on heightened alert because of the threat of a terrorist attack against United States interests in the region.
As a result of the alert, six Navy ships stationed in Bahrain -- four mine sweepers, a supply ship and a destroyer -- have been put to sea, joining the Constellation carrier battle group that was already deployed in the region. A Marine exercise in Jordan was cut short, and security has been tightened at bases and ports used by American forces in the region, officials said.
Officials speculated that the threat might be related to the Khobar Towers indictment, and might involve groups related to Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile who has been charged by the United States with leading the conspiracy to blow up two American embassies in East Africa in 1998. 
The Clinton administration was widely criticized for its failure to pursue evidence that Iran was behind the bombing, but now, the Bush administration has shown that same reluctance. Prosecutors did not cite Iranian officials by name despite what some officials said was the hope of Louis J. Freeh, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, that Iranian officials would be charged. Mr. Freeh, who had taken a personal interest in the case, said on Thursday that it would remain open, and Mr. Ashcroft made it clear that the United States would be willing to pursue charges against Iranian officials if more evidence emerged. 
One United States official said today that while there was information pointing to Iranian involvement, "that's a long way from being able to make a case in court."
The United States has often been willing to punish lesser nations when they step over the line into support for terrorist acts, often with less evidence of their involvement in specific acts than was the case with the Khobar Towers bombing. The United States bombed Libya in 1986 after it linked it to the bombing of a Berlin nightclub that killed American soldiers. The Clinton administration launched missile strikes against Afghanistan and Sudan in 1998 after the embassy bombings in East Africa. Yet, several administrations have hesitated to retaliate against Iran. 
The Khobar Towers case has been complicated by the fact that the attack occurred on the soil of one of America's most important allies in the region, Saudi Arabia, and that most of those suspected of direct involvement are Saudi citizens.
On Friday, Saudi officials complained publicly about the indictment, arguing that the United States had no right to bring a legal case over an incident that occurred in Saudi Arabia. The defense minister, Prince Sultan bin Abdel Aziz, said legal steps in the case "fall within the jurisdiction of Saudi Arabia." 
Iran, meanwhile, denied any role in the Khobar bombing. A Foreign Ministry spokesman, Hamid Reza Assei, said today that the "U.S. judiciary has leveled charges against Iran which have no legal and judicial basis," the Islamic Republic News Agency reported. 
Early on, the United States approached the incident almost purely as a law enforcement matter, in contrast to the way the government responded to the East Africa embassy bombings two years later. After those, the United States quickly retaliated with cruise missile strikes against Afghanistan and Sudan, in an effort to punish Mr. bin Laden and his network. Only later did Washington seek indictments against Mr. bin Laden and others in his organization.
"We chose law enforcement retaliation versus military retaliation," the former Clinton administration official said. The Khobar investigation, however, bogged down in turf battles between the F.B.I. and the Saudis. The bureau complained of a lack of cooperation from the Saudi authorities, while the Saudis privately began to complain that the Clinton administration did not seem interested in hearing about evidence that Iran was behind the attack.
Ultimately, American officials said cooperation improved, and the Saudis are believed to have provided much of the evidence that led to the indictments. 
By 1999, the evidence linking Iran to the bombing was strong enough so that President Clinton sent a secret letter to Iran's president, Mohammad Khatami, asking for help in solving the Khobar case. The letter was sent after the United States obtained convincing information that Iranian officials were behind the attack. The letter came in the midst of Mr. Clinton's broader efforts to reach out to Mr. Khatami and engage the reformist forces in Iran.
But the Iranians refused to help on the case. Mr. Freeh reportedly concluded that the Clinton administration was not serious about solving the case, and he is said to have waited until Mr. Clinton left office in order to try to bring charges in the matter. The indictment came in Mr. Freeh's last week in office as F.B.I. director. 
"I'm disappointed that they didn't name the Iranians," said Fran Heiser, of Palm Coast, Fla., the mother of one of the bombing victims. "There has been so much talk around and around it. I hope they have a reasonable answer." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); BOMBINGS (91%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); CONSPIRACY (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); EXTRADITION (69%); NAVIES (66%); MILITARY VESSELS (65%); NAVAL VESSELS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); JURISDICTION (50%) BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SAUDI ARABIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (82%) HEZBOLLAH 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%) RISEN, JAMES; PERLEZ, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); LEBANON (93%); IRAN (93%); BAHRAIN (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); GULF STATES (73%); JORDAN (58%) SAUDI ARABIA; IRAN

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



582 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: A Pressured Franks Pushes Tax Plan, 4 Days Before Primary 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 22 

 BODY:
Bob Franks and Bret D. Schundler sprinted into the final weekend of their battle for the Republican nomination for governor today with Mr. Franks on the defensive, pushing his hastily announced plan to limit property tax increases, while Mr. Schundler expressed confidence that his message was winning over primary voters.
 With just three days to go before Tuesday's primary, the pressure is clearly on Mr. Franks, the former representative. Despite the support of most of the state Republican organization, Mr. Franks was transformed into the underdog this week by a Quinnipiac University poll showing him trailing Mr. Schundler, the mayor of Jersey City, by 15 percentage points among likely voters. 
 Mr. Franks, who had hoped to save his property tax initiative for the general election, tried to make the most of it today, releasing a new, upbeat television commercial trumpeting the tax plan. "My agenda is to cap property taxes for every homeowner," Mr. Franks said in the advertisement. But the commercial offered no specifics and policy experts questioned the proposal.
"It sounds like another example of a Band-Aid approach to a problem that requires much more," said Jon J. Shure, the president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a liberal nonprofit group that analyzes state issues. "The only way to really reduce over-reliance on property taxes is to get the money someplace else. That would make the system fairer and more sustainable."
In his plan, Mr. Franks said he would seek to cap tax increases at the rate of inflation. Several experts said that the plan would encounter problems if government spending outpaced inflation, as is often the case. Mr. Franks also said he would freeze homeowners' tax assessments for as long as they owned their homes.
The idea of updating an assessment only when a home is sold -- called a welcome stranger assessment because it raises tax for new residents -- has been implemented elsewhere, including California, said Dick Netzer, a public policy professor at New York University and an expert on property taxes. 
Mr. Netzer said the plan had a built-in problem that politicians often did not recognize. Because homes are sold more frequently than commercial properties, the tax burden gradually shifts from commercial property owners to homeowners, he said. He noted that politicians generally seek to reduce the tax burden on homeowners, who, of course, are voters. 
Bill Ulrey, the policy director for the Franks campaign, said that the caps would impose fiscal discipline that would reduce government spending and taxes for everyone. He said Mr. Franks would require that commercial property be reassessed every 10 years to maintain parity with residences. Most property tax experts suggest annual reassessments of all properties to maintain fairness for taxpayers.
Mr. Schundler has given only muted criticism of the Franks property tax plan, and instead has turned his attention over the last two days to the Democratic candidate for governor, James E. McGreevey. At a breakfast speech to the Elizabethtown Chamber of Commerce today, he urged voters to compare his record in Jersey City to Mr. McGreevey's as the mayor of Woodbridge. 
With turnout on Tuesday expected to be extremely low among New Jersey's 850,000 Republicans, both candidates planned to spend the weekend chasing votes across the state, particularly in Morris and Bergen Counties, which have the largest number of Republican voters.
Much of today was spent taping interviews for weekend election wrap-ups on television. Mr. Franks kept up a slightly more hectic pace, with a half dozen campaign stops in Hunterdon and Union Counties. Nearly all the newspaper editorial pages that have endorsed a candidate have sided with Mr. Franks over Mr. Schundler. Mr. Franks was endorsed today in the opinion pages of The Star-Ledger of Newark, the state's largest newspaper, and The Asbury Park Press. Both said Mr. Franks would stand a better chance against Mr. McGreevey. The Star-Ledger called Mr. Franks "the better and more practical choice," saying his ideas were "more grounded in reality than Schundler's." The Asbury Park Press warned that voters should choose Mr. Schundler only "if they want to see their party go down in flames in November."
The editorial page of The New York Times also endorsed Mr. Franks on Friday, calling him "clearly the better qualified" candidate and "a pragmatist with the experience and temperament to carry the party's banner admirably in the November election."
Earlier this week, Mr. Franks received the endorsements of The Philadelphia Inquirer; The Times of Trenton; The Record of Hackensack, and The Courier-Post of Cherry Hill. 
Mr. Schundler was endorsed today in a New York Post editorial that said voters might fear he was "too much of a long shot" in a general election. "But if enough voters feel otherwise and Schundler wins," The Post concluded, "life in New Jersey might just take a turn for the better." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); PROPERTY TAX (92%); TAX LAW (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); POLITICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX ASSESSORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); TAX CONSULTING (72%); ELECTION LAW (72%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); LIBERALISM (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%) TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: SCHUNDLER, BRET D; FRANKS, ROBERT D; HERSZENHORN, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



583 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Senate Vote Is Just a Step To a Deal For Casinos 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 22 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki may have won a temporary victory when he convinced the Republican-led Senate to push through legislation late Thursday giving him carte blanche to negotiate a casino deal with the Seneca Nation.
 But even if the Republican governor persuaded several conservative senators who hate gambling to hold their noses and vote for casinos in Niagara Falls and Buffalo, he still has a long, rough road ahead of him before the first legal crap game can be held in that economically devastated corner of the state. 
 For starters, the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, says he is in no hurry. He has indicated that he will not pass the bills in the form the Senate passed them. He wants more detail about how the revenues will be shared. He wants guarantees that union labor will be used to build and run the casinos. "I have a million questions," he said in an interview. 
Mr. Silver also hinted he might push for assurances that the gambling revenues going to the state would be used to bridge the gap between what he and the governor want to spend on education. In short, Mr. Silver is likely to use the bills authorizing the governor to negotiate a deal as a bargaining chip in talks about the state budget.
"This is something the governor wants," said Senator Martin Connor, the Democratic minority leader. "It's trade bait."
The more time the Assembly takes to approve the bills, the more time anti-gambling groups have to lobby members. The main argument for the casinos is that people are now going across the border to Canada to gamble their money. Opponents maintain, however, that casinos produce nothing. They just redistribute money, the argument goes, and in a depressed area there is not a lot of cash to redistribute. 
"Atlantic City was a slum before casinos," said Senator Frank Padavan, the lone Republican to vote against the governor's bills. "Now it's a slum with casinos."
Even if Mr. Pataki persuades Mr. Silver to pass the bills, he may face a tougher political fight among the Senecas. Though the current tribal president, Cyrus M. Schindler, favors gambling, many of the 7,000 Senecas do not. In 1994, the tribe rejected casino gambling in a volatile referendum. In 1998, the Senecas voted to let their leaders negotiate with the state on the condition that the tribe could vote again on the final agreement.
"This is not by any means a lock," said Senator Dale M. Volker, whose district includes the Seneca headquarters. "If anyone believes you can rely on the Seneca vote, you better wait a little bit."
One reason the governor asked Senator Joseph L. Bruno to rush the legislation through is that the agreement with Mr. Schindler says the tribal referendum will be held within a month. The governor told Mr. Bruno, the majority leader, he needed the Legislature's go-ahead to work out the details of a contract in time for the tribal vote.
Under a recent court decision, Mr. Pataki must seek legislative approval for treaties or agreements with American Indians. Democrats argue that Mr. Pataki could have negotiated the deal before presenting it to the Legislature, but the governor has asked the Legislature to give him approval in advance. That may be because the Seneca rank and file would be less likely to support a contract that the Legislature could reject. "We're giving him a blank check," said Senator Connor, who opposed the bills.
Another pitfall for the governor is that the Senecas have insisted on slot machines. The State Constitution specifically bans coin-operated slot machines. The legislation passed by the Senate removes a ban on slot machines in the penal code, but does not address the constitutional ban. 
It is unclear whether the new measure, even if passed by the Assembly, would stand up in court. What is clear, however, is that gambling opponents will sue to find out. If the courts reject the slot machines, the state would reap little from the casinos, because the agreement says the state's share of proceeds would come only from slot machines.
In addition, both the Oneidas and Mohawks have casinos without slot machines on their lands. They might seek slot machines as well, since the federal law authorizing American Indian casinos says the tribes cannot be barred from any games that are legal in any other part of the state.
Finally, the federal government must approve the accord reached between the Senecas and the state.
If the hurdles to a casino agreement with the Senecas seem high, so too are the political stakes for the governor. Buffalo and Niagara Falls are in terrible economic shape. The Buffalo region showed more population loss in the recent census than any other metropolitan area. 
In the 2000 election, Hillary Rodham Clinton, the Democratic candidate for the United States Senate, successfully used the economic realities of upstate New York against her opponent, Rick A. Lazio. She drew votes by calling for more economic development projects while Mr. Lazio, the Republican candidate, insisted the region had turned a corner.
The governor has cloaked the casino proposals in the language of economic development all week, calling them part of his continuing effort to create jobs and "a major boost to the economy." He has also spent time in Buffalo to announce his plans for tax cuts, free-trade zones and seed money for high-tech industries.
Michael McKeon, the governor's spokesman, said Mr. Pataki favors casinos in resort areas in part because right now hundreds of millions of dollars are leaving the state in the pockets of gamblers headed to Ontario or Atlantic City. "We get the negatives of gambling without the positives," he said.
It was that argument that persuaded Senator Bruno, long a fierce opponent of gambling, to line up the Republican votes for the governor on Thursday. Late that night, after several telephone conversations with the governor, Mr. Bruno went into a conference room with no more than a handful of pro-gambling votes among his 36 Republican senators. He walked out with 35 votes. 
"If it were up to me, there wouldn't be any gambling in the world, but we are surrounded with casinos," Senator Bruno said today. "It's just having to face reality." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); GAMING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CASINOS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); BUDGETS (69%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (60%); LABOR UNIONS (54%) GAMBLING; SENECA NATION OF INDIANS; CASINOS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; NIAGARA FALLS (NY); BUFFALO (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



584 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home; 
Ripple Of Hope

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
When you challenge a tyrant and come close to succeeding, what may he do at the last to hold on to power? That is a looming concern now for Morgan Tsvangirai, leader of the challenge to President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe. 
 Mr. Tsvangirai well knows what Mr. Mugabe is capable of. A miner who became head of Zimbabwe's Congress of Trade Unions, he was targeted as he gained popularity. In 1989 he was charged with being a South African spy and imprisoned for six weeks before the absurd charge was dropped. In 1997 eight men burst into his 10th-floor office and tried to push him out the window; he was saved when his secretary screamed for help. 
 "That was almost the end," Mr. Tsvangirai said when we talked this week. He was taking part in a two-week program at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government for leaders in developing countries. I asked whether he didn't fear for his life now, when reports say Zimbabweans are turning away from Mr. Mugabe in the run-up to a presidential election due by next April. 
"I've come to accept that there is a risk," he said. "But the possibility of lawlessness affects all individuals, not just me." The so-called war veterans used as shock troops by the Mugabe regime have beaten and killed members of Mr. Tsvangirai's Movement for Democratic Change. 
What, then, might Mr. Mugabe do if he sees himself facing defeat after 21 years in power? He might create a crisis of some kind, Mr. Tsvangirai said, and then declare a state of emergency and call off the election. Or he might use extreme violence against the opposition. 
The United States can help keep the election honest, he said, by sending observers along with other countries. He noted that Mr. Mugabe had recently called in diplomats and told them no observers would be accepted. But that stance might be overcome by foreign insistence. 
Mr. Tsvangirai said he would rather talk about the future than about the excesses of Mr. Mugabe. "It's a government of thugs and violence," he said. "We know that. But what can we do if we are elected? What are our priorities?"
First, he said, "we have to return our country to the rule of law. It's fundamental to our future." 
Second, a new government would have to deal with the country's economic crisis. Among other things, it has no foreign currency to buy urgent necessities. "The deterioration," he said, "is devastating, shattering." 
Among the possible steps he mentioned to right the economy was withdrawal of Zimbabwean forces from Congo. He said a new government, respected abroad, would negotiate for financial support. 
As a third priority he listed land reform -- but done lawfully, not in the Mugabe way with mobs occupying white-owned farms. 
Finally, Mr. Tsvangirai said constitutional reform would be a priority. Zimbabwe needs checks and balances in its system, he said -- and term limits. He has pledged to serve no more than two terms if elected president. 
He made an interesting point about Mr. Mugabe's party, Zanu-PF. "It's a liberation movement, not a democratic movement," he said. Its guerrillas fought the war that ended in replacement of Ian Smith's white minority Rhodesian regime in 1980. Ever since, it has been run with an absolute hand by Mr. Mugabe. As in the old Soviet Union, it sees no difference between party and government. 
The oldest of nine children, Mr. Tsvangirai had no higher education. He is 49 now -- and self-educated, he says, not least in democracy. "Democracy and prosperity go hand in hand," he said. "Democracy allows self-expression, self-initiative." 
Talking with him, I was reminded of what Robert Kennedy said when he visited South Africa in 1966, in the most repressive days of apartheid. He told students at the University of Cape Town that it may seem futile to challenge the world's "misery and ignorance, injustice and violence." Then he said:
"But it is from numberless diverse acts of courage and belief that human history is shaped. Each time a person stands up for an ideal, or strikes out against injustice, he sends forth a tiny ripple of hope; and crossing each other from a million different centers of energy and daring, those ripples build a current which can sweep down the mightiest walls of oppression." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CURRENCIES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%); VETERANS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (56%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS 

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (90%) LEWIS, ANTHONY; TSVANGIRAI, MORGAN; MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) ZIMBABWE (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) ZIMBABWE

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



585 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Needle-Trading Programs Have Few Inroads in U.S. 

BYLINE:  By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: LYNN, Mass., June 20 

 BODY:
That February night, Gary Langis was doing his usual thing. That is, he was delivering sterile hypodermic needles to two heroin addicts here, and picking up dirty needles to be sure they were disposed of safely.
 A former addict himself, whose wife died of AIDS she contracted from drug use, Mr. Langis said he felt compelled to make such deliveries often, working with an underground group of needle-exchange volunteers called the New England Prevention Alliance. 
 Needle exchange is explicitly legal in Massachusetts only in a handful of cities running pilot programs, and Lynn, a northern suburb of Boston, is not one of them. As he walked away from the delivery, Mr. Langis was arrested. 
A jury quickly acquitted him this month of illegally distributing syringes, but the dispute is not really over.
"It's a violation of the law," said Lt. Tom Reddy of the Lynn police. "If they were to come back and distribute needles again, they would be arrested again for it."
Mr. Langis's case highlights the continuing conflicts over needle exchange in spots around the country, conflicts that tend to pit public health officials against law enforcement officials, town liberals against town conservatives, raising moral charges all around.
The scientific consensus in favor of needle exchanges has steadily solidified. Last month, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued findings that needle-exchange programs, which now number more than 130 in at least 31 states, "are an effective public health intervention that reduces transmission of H.I.V. and does not encourage the illegal use of drugs."
But many localities remain unconvinced, fearing that needle exchanges only increase drug use and the crime associated with it. Matthew Straight, a councilor from Fitchburg, Mass., who opposes a needle-exchange bill being considered by the State Legislature, said, "I feel this bill decriminalizes drug use, and only supports the habit."
In Massachusetts, one of the most liberal states in the country, only four cities, including Boston, have opened needle exchange programs. Several cities that were offered grants to start exchanges turned the money down, and several where drugs contribute most to the H.I.V. rates have voted down needle exchanges, either by referendum or City Council action.
The result, in Massachusetts and other states, is a patchwork unusual for criminal law: a town where it is legal to distribute needles sits next to a town where distribution remains a crime. And national experts say such patchworks exist across the country.
"It is common to have states where localities decide," said Allan Clear, executive director of the Harm Reduction Coalition, a nationwide network of groups that advocate on behalf of drug users and needle-exchange programs. 
Those states include California, he said, where cities like San Francisco and Santa Cruz have legalized needle exchanges, while San Diego and Orange County have not. Even in New York, Mr. Clear said, where needle exchanges have run legally in Manhattan for years, Staten Island continues to oppose them, as does New Jersey next door.
The lack of legal approval in so many spots, Mr. Clear said, has kept probably about half of all needle exchanges in the country technically underground, though some have the tacit approval of authorities.
Such town-to-town inconsistency frustrates public health officials and advocates for people with AIDS. They argue that H.I.V. knows no boundaries. In Massachusetts, they also point out that in the towns that have needle exchanges, H.I.V. transmission caused by injected drugs now constitutes a significantly lower percentage than in towns that ban the exchanges.
The bill before the Massachusetts Legislature would make needle exchange legal everywhere in the state. A similar bill passed last year but was vetoed by Gov. Paul Cellucci, who said the issue should be left to local control.
About a dozen states at a time are usually considering such needle-exchange laws, and two or three have enacted them each year for the last several years, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Several states, including New York, have also recently passed laws to legalize the purchase by the public of a limited number of syringes in pharmacies. 
The United States Surgeon General's office and the Department of Health and Human Services have endorsed needle-exchange programs, but the federal government provides no money for them.
At a hearing this month on the proposed Massachusetts needle-exchange law, the public health commissioner, Howard Koh, told lawmakers that of the 700 to 800 new H.I.V. infections reported in the state every year, more than half of those infected contracted the virus through drug use. Drugs have become the disease's "primary engine" in the state, Mr. Koh said; in some cities, nearly three-quarters of H.I.V. carriers got it from needles. 
Here in Lynn, an old seaside city nicknamed by some the City of Sin, the issue of needle exchange raises similarly conflicting views -- and the debate becomes even more urgent when set against the backdrop of the city's growing drug problem. 
According to state statistics, 604 people who were admitted to publicly financed substance-abuse programs in Lynn in 1997 reported using a needle for drugs; that number rose by nearly 29 percent in 2000, to 777. And those were only the people coming for treatment. 
Deaths from heroin overdoses have also been on the rise, and the city has increased enforcement and set up a task force to try to stop the trend.
But Lynn has also made great strides in recent years toward revitalization, said Timothy Phelan, a city councilor at large, and many here fear a needle exchange somewhere downtown would mean a setback in the city's efforts to boost itself, Mr. Phelan said. Elderly residents worry that they would be mugged walking to the supermarket, he said, and there is "a strong Nimby element -- not in my backyard."
Aside from economics and crime, Mr. Phelan said, "My strong personal belief is that if you provide the needles, I personally think you are exacerbating the problem of drug use. It's like, when I'm in Boston, I'll walk by a homeless person on the street begging for money, and you can see a couple of empty bottles next to them. I won't give them money because I think they'll buy another bottle, but I've given them my brown bag lunch before."
His City Council colleague Deborah Smith Walsh supports needle exchange as a way to keep addicts healthy and get them into treatment, but Ms. Walsh said she was very aware of being in the minority.
"Lynn is an old urban community," she said, "and because of that, it's quite parochial and conservative in its thinking. So I think it's difficult for people in the community to look upon a needle exchange program as a positive type of treatment." 
"Quite a few people look upon needle exchange as enabling an addict," she said, and it will take a great deal of education about the research on needle exchange to convince them otherwise.
It is akin, Ms. Walsh said, to the public education that has been needed to bring acceptance of teenage pregnancy programs and condom distribution.
Lieutenant Reddy of the Lynn police said the police opposition to needle exchange stemmed from the view that what was at issue was a tradeoff between helping addicts and protecting the nearly 100,000 people who make up the rest of the city's population. 
The experience of other police departments, Lieutenant Reddy said he had heard, is that needle exchanges bring in more addicts and thus more pushers, and that they all linger, increasing the crime rate.
"Why do innocent people have to suffer because of the conscious decision of someone who chose to take criminal action?" he asked.
The Lynn City Council has passed an ordinance specifying that a needle exchange can come to the city only with its approval. Unless the Legislature passes the statewide bill, no one expects that to happen soon.
So the stage seems set for the next needle-exchange arrest. Such arrests are rare around the country.
"We're going to continue our mission," Mr. Langis said. "Our mission is completely clear, that we will provide sterile injection equipment to at-risk populations, no matter what ZIP code they live in."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary Langis, with needles and syringes at his feet, talked to heroin addicts in Revere, Mass., about exchanging needles. Mr. Langis distributes the kind of sterile needles and syringes that diabetics use to inject insulin. (Evan Richman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (88%); LIBERALISM (87%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (78%); HEROIN (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITIES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); JURY TRIALS (74%); ARRESTS (74%); CRIMINAL LAW (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); ACQUITTAL (69%); REFERENDUMS (60%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; HYPODERMIC NEEDLES AND SYRINGES; ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (54%)

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



586 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Not Dodgers II, but It's Baseball; 
The Game Is Back in Brooklyn, on a Smaller Scale

BYLINE:  By ANDY NEWMAN 

 BODY:
The Slavin brothers, Irish boys from the neighborhood, were discussing the topic of the day at Farrell's tavern in Windsor Terrace.
 "It's the best thing that ever happened to Brooklyn," said John, 49. "Now we have something to call our own. It's not hard to get to, the seats are cheap." 
 Mike Slavin, 38, was not convinced. "Single-A though," he reminded his older brother. "It's like high school baseball." 
"Come on, Mikey," John Slavin said. "Lee Mazzilli played around here and came up through the minors. John Candelaria used to pitch at the Parade Grounds. Maybe we have a chance that some kid from the neighborhood, from Brooklyn, is going to make it through the system."
Let the economists grumble that $39 million -- the amount Rudolph W. Giuliani, in the soft twilight of his mayoralty, lavished on a minor-league stadium in Coney Island -- would have been better spent on an industrial park. Let Brooklyn's own borough president fume that the city would have been far better served by playing fields for high school and college teams.
All of that, for the moment, is beside the point. People are talking baseball in Brooklyn again.
Maybe not Willie, Mickey and the Duke. Maybe not even new guys Noel (Devarez, power-hitting right fielder), Joel (Zaragosa, prank-pulling shortstop) and Tony (Coyne, Yale-educated second baseman). Not yet, anyway. 
But on Monday, there will be a parade down Surf Avenue to the new park. The Tokens, homegrown doo-wop luminaries, will ask the musical question about whether that star-spangled banner yet waves. And under banks of white lights, with the distant roar of the roller coaster and the thumping rap music of the midway in the background, a professional baseball pitcher will dig his spikes into Brooklyn soil for the first time since 1957.
The team is called the Cyclones. For better or worse, Brooklyn, they are your ball club now.
Brooklyn Dodger fans may need to ratchet down their expectations a notch. "These guys are not a championship major-league team," said Jeffrey S. Wilpon, the chief operating officer of the team. "We hope to fill a little bit of that void for people who just want to hear the sound of the bat on the ball and see kids hustling." 
And Cyclone enthusiasts are advised not to develop Dodger-level attachments to their favorite players. It is a fundamental unfairness of minor-league fandom that if a player is good, he will be promoted off the team (although perhaps someday returning to New York to play for the Mets, the Cyclones' big-league brothers). Conversely, a familiar face is not likely to be a beloved one. Staying at single-A, one of the lowest rungs in the minors, for two seasons in a row is like repeating the third grade. 
It is little wonder, then, that many members of the Brooklyn Dodger generation harbor mixed feelings about the second coming of baseball. On a recent evening, a lone man in a baseball cap stood outside the new stadium, peering through the fence. He was Eli Miller, one of the city's last surviving seltzer deliverymen, and he was torn. 
With one breath, Mr. Miller, 63, said of the Cyclones, "As a Dodger fan, I feel it's a bad substitute for a team. Brooklyn deserves a major-league team." With the next, he acknowledged that he had been coming to the site for months to check on its progress. "Just out of curiosity, I might go to a few games." 
Brooklynites looking to bond with their team may also find it tough to follow them day to day. The games will be broadcast on the Kingsborough Community College radio station (WKRB-FM, 90.9), but the signal sometimes does not make it far beyond campus. The Cyclones' debut, a hard-fought 2-1 triumph at Jamestown, N.Y., on Tuesday, was ignored by two of New York City's major daily newspapers.
Although there is a Web site (www.brooklyncyclones.com), and the home opener will be televised on Channel 13, just a few more games will be broadcast on cable. 
A summer intern for The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, Jesse Spector, said he would try to cover most home games, but made no promises.
Thus a brief introduction to the team is in order.
The Cyclones, named for Coney Island's landmark roller coaster, play in the 14-team New York-Penn League, which is divided into the McNamara Division and the Pinckney-Stedler Division. The Cyclones are in the McNamara Division. After winning two games over Jamestown yesterday, the Cyclones had a 3-1 record. 
The Cyclones' opponents on Monday will be the Mahoning Valley Scrappers from Niles, Ohio. Niles is a suburb of Youngstown. 
Did you know? Two Cyclones pitchers are from Australia. Three players hail from San Pedro de Macoris, the fabled city of shortstops in the Dominican Republic. Michael Jacobs, the starting catcher, had a childhood problem throwing the ball back to the mound until his mother cursed him out about it in public.
Pitcher Ross Peeples dyes his highlights blond and suffers from a pathological inability to spit into his hand to rub up the baseball. "There's some deep-rooted thing," said the Cyclones' pitching coach, Bobby Ojeda. "He's going to be in therapy."
The ballplayers are paid the pauperly sum of $850 a month. But their overhead is low: they are staying in an old rectory in Bay Ridge and at dorms at St. John's University in Queens.
The Cyclones' new stadium, called KeySpan Park after a munificent utility company, is a swell place to watch a game. That is a good thing as it is the second most expensive minor-league stadium ever built (the first being Richmond County Bank Ballpark, the $71 million home of the Cyclones' cross-bay rivals, the Staten Island Yankees).
From the street, during the day, it is not much to look at. A postmodern puzzle of metal, glass and tile, it resembles one of those newfangled, community-friendly sewage treatment plants. But inside, under the lights, it can feel a little magical. The stadium's proportions are both generous and intimate. And the decor, which includes neon hoops, bright blue-and-yellow awnings and beer vendors in Hawaiian shirts, alludes to the panorama of surf, sand, boardwalk and midway visible from the top two tiers. Tickets are $10, $8 and $6. (For $3.50, passengers on the Wonder Wheel get an unobstructed view of first base and the right side of the outfield.)
For their first year, at least, the Cyclones are already a hit: 15 of their 38 home games are sold out. Whether the stadium spurs the economic revival that the mayor has promised and that Coney Island has desperately been awaiting for decades is another question.
The city's investment certainly has not generated many jobs so far: perhaps 20 full-time spots associated with the stadium, and 200 or so part-time vending and ushering jobs that pay about $7 an hour. There will also be two restaurants next to the ballpark. But the city is also pumping more than $10 million into other projects in the area, including new playgrounds.
Along Surf Avenue, there are signs of new life. Two convenience stores have opened in recent months, along with an Italian-ice place and a Popeyes fried chicken.
On the other hand, the attempt to upgrade Coney Island's image is threatening some of the people who have made a home in its seediness. The vendors in the semi-permanent flea market along Surf Avenue are being pressured anew to get lost. Elvin James, standing guard at the gate of Dante's Inferno on the midway, said that he feared the tide of renewal would sweep away his $435-a-month digs in a rooming house on Mermaid Avenue.
Even so, it was hard to find people on the streets of Coney Island this week who flat-out opposed the ballpark. "I love baseball, so it's a good thing," said Kelsha White, who had just graduated from college and was home for the summer. "I just hope that it does something."
A few locals are even hoping for one of those crummy $850-a-month jobs playing baseball.
"I'm going to send them a letter this year," Paul Navarro said after finishing a practice on Wednesday at the Leon S. Kaiser Playground, not far from the stadium. Paul, 16, said he had struck out 10 batters in four innings in a recent amateur-league game and that scouts had been checking him out. "Maybe I'll try out next year."
Paul has tickets to the Cyclones' second home game on Tuesday. But he said he would be picturing himself on the field.
"People coming to see me play and stuff?" he imagined. "That feeling, having all the fans around you, having people depend on you to hit the ball out of the infield? Forget about it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Procops, groundskeeper, right, lining up first base at the new stadium in Brooklyn for the Cyclones. Top, stadium seats combine logos for the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Mets. Bottom, John Toner relaxes at practice. (Above and top left, Andrea Mohin/The New York Times; bottom left, Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Manager Edgar Alfonzo, leaning on a bat, and coach Howard Johnson, right, watched the Cyclones practice last week at the new stadium. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (75%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (75%); MAYORS (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); RAP MUSIC (63%) BASEBALL; MINOR LEAGUES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (59%) BROOKLYN CYCLONES 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (52%) NEWMAN, ANDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) CONEY ISLAND (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



587 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Sales Sluggish For Key Drug From Merck 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
Merck & Company said yesterday that its profits for the second quarter and year would be lower than expected because sales of its painkiller Vioxx were not growing as fast as expected.
 The drug company introduced Vioxx two years ago as a substitute for sometimes-nauseating arthritis medicines, and it has become one of the world's best-selling drugs. 
 Merck had hoped for $3.5 billion in sales of Vioxx this year. But the medicine will reach only $3 billion in sales, the low point of the company's earlier forecast, Raymond V. Gilmartin, the chief executive of Merck, said yesterday in a statement. 
Merck now expects to earn 77 to 79 cents a share in the second quarter, below analysts' consensus estimate of 81 cents a share, according to Thomson Financial/ First Call. The company, based in Whitehouse Station, N.J., expects earnings for the year to be $3.12 to $3.18 a share, below analysts' estimate of $3.20.
Merck's disclosure startled investors, and its shares plunged $6.67, almost 9 percent, to $67.80, contributing to a decline in the Dow Jones industrial average which ended down 1 percent, at 10,604.59 points.
Mr. Gilmartin said the dollar's strength also contributed to the company's weaker-than-expected performance.
Vioxx, which suppresses inflammation without steroids and can cost as much as $2 a pill, gave hope for relief to arthritis patients and other adults suffering from acute pain.
"Whenever a new product comes to the market, it takes off very fast," said Hemant K. Shah, an independent drug stock analyst in Warren, N.J. But because no product tends to soothe arthritis pain consistently for more than a couple of years, "in this particular class you can have momentum either way."
Introduced in 1999 with an aggressive television marketing campaign that spoke of pain relief with fewer ulcers, Vioxx sold well, becoming Merck's second-biggest drug after Zocor, a cholesterol medicine.
Vioxx's direct competitor, Celebrex, is the Pharmacia Corporation's top product, and the two drugs are among the most popular for the treatment of joint pain. Combined, they have a bit over 40 percent of the prescription painkiller market.
But, "if you can't penetrate 45 or 50 percent of that market," said Neil B. Sweig, analyst for Ryan, Beck & Company, "that means you have to go head to head, Vioxx versus Celebrex, and just beat on each other."
Millions of Americans have tried the drugs, and doctors seem to be writing more prescriptions, analysts said, citing data from IMS Health, a market research firm. But some have questioned the sales growth of Vioxx for months, more pointedly since Merck explained a discrepancy between revenue and new prescriptions in the first quarter by saying wholesalers had overstocked the drug.
Last month, analysts began to publicly worry that the Food and Drug Administration would add a warning about heart attack risks to the labels of Vioxx and Celebrex. Merck has contested the validity of the research received by the F.D.A.
Analysts said Merck was also vulnerable to competition from generics because many of the patents covering its drugs were expiring. 
In its statement, however, Merck reaffirmed sales expectations for its other four major growth drugs. For Zocor, its cholesterol drug, the company expects sales of $5.8 billion to $6.2 billion; for Fosamax, its osteoporosis drug, $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion; for Hyzaar, its antihypertensive drug, $1.8 billion to $2 billion; and for Singulair, its asthma controller, $1 billion to $1.2 billion.
The company said it would cut spending on research and development to $2.6 billion from an earlier estimate of $2.8 billion.
"It's kind of troubling to me when you have to cut R&D to make the revised numbers," said Adam Greene, an analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
Mr. Greene said Merck's disclosure on sales was "why you're seeing Pharmacia down today, too.
"People are just calling into question how much more will it grow," he said.
Many drug stocks were lower yesterday. Shares of Pharmacia fell $2.71, to $48.79, a drop of 5.1 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ARTHRITIS (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); ANALGESICS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); STEROIDS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); EXECUTIVES (70%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); US DOLLAR (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (62%) ARTHRITIS AND RHEUMATISM; VIOXX (DRUG); SALES 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (98%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); PHARMACIA CORP (63%); IMS HEALTH INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MERCK & CO 

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (98%); MRK (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (98%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (63%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%) SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



588 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Considers Tighter Gas Mileage Rules 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22 

 BODY:
Republican leaders in Congress have softened their opposition to mandating higher fuel economy standards for automobiles, raising the possibility that the government could require automakers to improve the efficiency of cars and light trucks for the first time in seven years.
 Reflecting intense political pressure to support energy conservation, House Republicans said energy legislation this year would include steps to raise the average gas mileage of vehicles sold in the United States. Among the possibilities, several Republicans said, is a modest increase in Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, known as CAFE, for sport utility vehicles and other light trucks. 
 "Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, or CAFE, deserve a new look with the explosion in sales of vehicles classified as light trucks," Representative Joe L. Barton, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the House energy and air quality subcommittee, said today. 
Representative Billy Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who is chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, said "a significant, quantifiable increase in auto efficiency" must be a part of any energy package. Mr. Tauzin left open the possibility that the auto industry could propose steps to increase overall gas mileage to avoid new government mandates, which it has resisted successfully for many years.
"I'm taking the position that the goal of cutting down on fuel consumption is what we want, and we will figure out an effective way to get there," Mr. Tauzin said in an interview. "My perception is that there's a lot more flexibility and willingness to look at all the options."
The eagerness of lawmakers to support conservation measures puts pressure on the White House to propose at least a modest increase in auto efficiency standards, which have been set administratively since Congress first required the industry to improve average gas mileage in 1975.
Congressional Republicans have blocked any change in the standards since 1995. Regulations now require passenger cars to average 27.5 miles per gallon and light trucks to average 20.7 miles per gallon. Light truck standards were last raised, by a small increment, in 1994, while the standards for cars were last raised in 1989.
The overall fuel economy of new American autos has sunk in recent years, as consumers bought large numbers of sport utility vehicles and other light trucks instead of more efficient cars.
The Bush administration promised in its national energy plan to study an increase in auto efficiency mandates, but said it would await a study by the National Academy of Sciences, which is expected in July. Many in Congress expect the White House to recommend a small increase in CAFE standards. Bush administration officials say no decision has been made.
Recent polls show that a majority of Americans oppose President Bush's policies on energy and the environment. Democrats have sought to press their political advantage by introducing bills that would require light trucks to achieve the same gas mileage as cars.
Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority whip, signaled a shift in Republican strategy this week when he decided not to back a freeze on CAFE standards, which in previous years has been attached to spending bills. 
Republican aides said that Mr. DeLay was prepared to back the freeze, but that the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, an important industry lobbying group, indicated that it would prefer to avoid a Congressional fight on the issue this year.
The industry, however, has not dropped its opposition to increasing efficiency mandates. Ford, General Motors and DaimlerChrysler argue that fuel economy should be dictated by consumer choices, not government regulation. They also say that new rules on efficiency could force them to discontinue production of some popular vehicles during the economic downturn.
Industry lobbyists have been pressing the Bush administration to keep CAFE standards where they are and to back consumer tax credits for fuel efficient autos, a step they say is a more market-based approach to raising overall fuel economy. The administration has already said it supports tax credits for hybrid vehicles, which are highly fuel efficient.
But environmentalists say they believe the chances of raising CAFE standards are better this year than in more than a decade.
"I think we crossed the Rubicon somewhere to have these leading Republicans even mentioning the possibility of raising CAFE," Dan Becker of the Sierra Club said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



589 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 23, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Rumsfeld to Seek $33 Billion Rise for Military, and Critics See Too Much and Too Little 

BYLINE:  By THOM SHANKER and JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 22 

 BODY:
Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld will propose increasing the Pentagon's budget for next year to $329 billion, an increase of $33 billion over President Bill Clinton's last military budget, officials said today. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld's figure was also $18.4 billion above the Pentagon budget proposed by President Bush in February. Still, the increase was immediately criticized by Republicans as insufficient and by Democrats as beyond reach because of the recent tax cut. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld had originally asked the White House for substantially more money, and the final figure, which officials said would be presented to Congress next week, was certain to disappoint senior military officers who had thought President Bush's arrival at the White House would bring an even larger increase in military spending.
The total proposed military budget of $329 billion for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1 represents a 7 percent increase, after adjusting for inflation, over the current $296 billion military budget, President Clinton's last. That would make it one of the largest increases in percentage since the military buildup of the 1980's under President Ronald Reagan.
Even so, officials have said that this budget request does not lay out the grand transformation of America's military that was promised by President Bush; that design will await the fiscal 2003 budget. The increases in the new budget request are mainly to improve pay and benefits, as well as maintenance and housing programs.
Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, said tonight that the budget request's "guiding principle is a commitment to quality of life issues, and that is people: pay, housing, health care." In a telephone interview, Mr. Daniels said Mr. Bush also wanted to "restore readiness."
But Republicans on Capitol Hill said they were not satisfied, and would try to increase the total by $5 billion or more to provide more money for weapons programs.
"I wouldn't use the word fight, but we're going to have to work with the White House," said Senator John W. Warner of Virginia, the ranking Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee. "I know the president will want to do the right thing for the armed forces."
But Democrats said the Pentagon's request might be too large because President Bush's $1.35 trillion tax cut had drastically reduced the surplus. Republicans dispute that.
"It is not clear at all where the money is going to come from to meet Mr. Rumsfeld's transformation of the defense budget," said Representative John M. Spratt Jr., Democrat of South Carolina, his party's ranking member on the Budget Committee, who also serves on the Armed Services Committee.
"The bottom line will be strained to accommodate this request for 2002," Mr. Spratt said. "And then, presumably, this is not a one-time, nonrecurring increase, but will staircase upward by some amount each year for several years. They say we can have it all, but it is becoming clear we can't."
Democrats have already warned that the Pentagon increase might have a tough time competing with other proposals, including for education, agriculture and a payment plan for prescription drugs. And they suggested that the Bush administration might have to take the politically risky step of dipping into surplus Medicare money to pay for the military increase.
Some Congress members and Pentagon officials who said they had recently spoken with Mr. Rumsfeld said he had indicated that he hoped for substantially more, perhaps an increase of closer to $40 billion. A senior official said tonight that the White House had granted Mr. Rumsfeld only his "top priorities."
The administration's total 2002 military request will be $343.5 billion; most of the money over and above the Pentagon's $329 billion is for the nuclear arms program managed by the Energy Department.
A senior Pentagon official said increases for the 2002 military budget would include $4.1 billion for pay and housing, $2 billion for health care and $1.6 billion for readiness, operations and maintenance. A $1.3 billion increase is to be proposed for flying hours. Other categories of readiness, including depot maintenance, spare parts, range and training center modernization and force protection, would receive $2.6 billion more under the Rumsfeld plan. Infrastructure would rise by $2.6 billion.
The senior Pentagon official also said that the missile defense program would receive $600 million in new financing under Mr. Rumsfeld's proposal. The official pointed out that with other increases already proposed by President Bush, spending on missile defense would increase by $2.2 billion in 2002.
Officials declined tonight to discuss details on whether the 2002 budget proposal would provide evidence of pending changes in major weapons programs, and said those decisions were likely to await the budget for the fiscal year 2003.
"You'll find that most of those decisions will await completion of the defense review," one official said, referring to the Quadrennial Defense Review, which is mandated by Congress and is now under way at the Pentagon. "That's just as the president asked it be. Procurement decisions, decisions on weapons systems, should follow strategy, and not the other way around."
The proposal included $3.6 billion for buying new weapons, a figure that many officials on Capitol Hill said was surprisingly low. "It tells me that they have not yet made decisions on major weapons programs," said Steve Daggett, a military analyst with the Congressional Research Service, a nonpartisan research division of Congress.
Mr. Rumsfeld has said that he will begin a major overhaul of the forces starting with the 2003 budget. But Democrats have warned that the budget will be even tighter then because of the way the tax cut has been structured. Mr. Rumsfeld acknowledged as much during testimony before Congress on Thursday.
"The fact that the tax bill was accelerated in its effective date changed the numbers," Mr. Rumsfeld said, "quite significantly, as I recall." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (93%); BUDGETS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); TAX RELIEF (71%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (69%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN SPRATT (78%); JOHN WARNER (59%); MITCH DANIELS (56%); MARK WARNER (56%) SHANKER, THOM; DAO, JAMES; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2001 



590 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 15; Column 1; Women's Health; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: STAYING WELL; 
A Place Where They Don't Dread Coming to Work

BYLINE:  By SARAH LUNDAY 

 BODY:
AFTER Sharon Maynard's husband of 20 years decided he did not want to be married anymore, she felt her life slipping out of control -- and felt herself slipping into depression. As a single mother of a teenage son, she did not know what to think and what to do and, least of all, where to turn for help.
 A year after her ordeal, Ms. Maynard, a 42-year-old purchasing agent, says she found solace from a source that may sound unlikely but is increasingly available to American workers: her employer. 
 About 90 percent of companies with at least 50 employees have a program to promote healthy living that is aimed at decreasing health care costs and increasing employee productivity. Many of the programs can provide savings to the employer, according to newly released research.
Programs vary from exercise classes to discounts on health insurance premiums. Nearly all can have a striking effect on production, and women have a record of participating more than men.
Ms. Maynard works for Highsmith, a catalog distributor of school and library supplies near Fort Atkinson, in southern Wisconsin. The company, with nearly 300 employees, offered her classes and referred her to a professional therapist. 
They were a lifesaver, Ms. Maynard said.
Eighty percent of the employees at High smith are women. The nonprofit Wellness Councils of America designated Highsmith one of the healthiest companies in the nation in 2000, ranking its health and business results and organized activities for workers.
In six years, the company's turnover rate decreased to 7.4 percent from 14.5 percent, said Bill Herman, the vice president for human resources. During the same period, Highsmith's premium payments for worker's compensation decreased 24 percent, to $53,500 annually last year from $70,219 in 1993.
Mr. Herman, who started the company's wellness program in 1992, said he began with small things, like eliminating doughnuts from staff meetings and offering juice and water when coffee was served.
More recently, Highsmith began charging a Twinkie tax, Mr. Herman said. Items in company vending machines that are high in fat cost more. For example, pretzels cost 25 cents and a candy bar 65 cents.
Highsmith also offers discounts on health insurance to those employees who participate in "wellness" activities. Seventy percent of the employees are enrolled in the company health plan, and 87 percent of those workers attended an annual health screening last year, Mr. Herman said.
Perhaps the most visible aspect of High smith's wellness program is the dozens of free courses on job development, work-life enrichment and personal well-being. The company course catalog is 38 pages, including a page of reminder notes for employees to clip and put in their work area or locker. Many of the classes on computer and other job skills are taught by employees who have taken five-day training courses themselves. Other classes are taught by teachers from the region. 
Bonnie Ehrke, a 57-year-old administrative assistant who lives on a farm near Fort Atkinson with her husband and children, has taken classes on nutrition, aromatherapy, computer databases, gardening and weight lifting, 48 classes in all.
"We're never too old to learn," she said.
Mrs. Ehrke has been with Highsmith seven years, and says she plans to continue working at the company until retirement. The average length of service is 13 years, according to the company.
Duncan Highsmith, the chief executive, said that even classes that are not directly related to work often make employees happier, more energetic and focused.
Speed Housecleaning is one of the most popular classes, Mr. Highsmith said with a chuckle. The company also pays up to $500 in tuition a year at a local technical college.
"One of the biggest stress factors is not having control over your life," Mr. High smith said. "So we try to give employees lots of choices and control."
Stress and depression are getting more attention in corporate health programs like Highsmith's. Research by the Health Enhancement Research Organization finds that the two conditions cost companies more in lost productivity than other problems or illnesses.
The nonprofit company, in Birmingham, Ala., has compiled a database of 46,026 employees nationwide in a wide range of jobs. Using the database, the organization found that workers with self-reported, persistent depression averaged annual health care expenditures that were 70 percent greater than those who said they were not depressed.
A separate study published in the May-June issue of the American Journal of Health Promotion reported that stress was a leading contributor to heart disease, diabetes, bacterial and viral infections.
Ron Z. Goetzel a health researcher in Washington for the Medstat Group, which studies health statistics, said traditional wellness programs could save companies a median of $3 for every $1 spent.
People considered unhealthy, like smokers and those with a poor diet, not only experience a higher rate of disease, but also report higher health care costs. For example, for every dollar spent in helping a pregnant woman to stop smoking, $6 in health care costs are saved, Mr. Goetzel said in an April report based on data from the Department of Health and Human Services, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Partnership for Prevention.
The cost of health care at Highsmith has increased over the years, but at a slower rate than other employers in the area, according to Mr. Herman. During 1998 and '99, Highsmith's medical claims were 22 percent fewer than at other companies in the H.M.O. community pool.
Michael P. O'Donnell, the author of the book "Health Promotion in the Workplace," said a typical company saved money by promoting wellness programs. "Most companies spend more on carpet than they do on these programs," he said.
Mr. Highsmith said that keeping employees healthy and strong was part of the business plan, and that a sagging economy would not affect employee health programs. "Profits are modest and need improvement," he said, adding that the company is making changes, like cost saving efforts, to help it compete better.
The advantage of being privately owned is that the company does not have to prove anything to investors, Mr. Highsmith said. 
"What really excites me is developing human potential," added Mr. Highsmith, who at 52 is an avid rock climber and high-altitude trekker.
Ms. Maynard has caught the exercise and self-improvement bug from her employer. She is a regular walker on the paths that surround the Highsmith building, carrying her tennis shoes to work daily.
A recent corporate health screening showed that her blood pressure was down. Her cholesterol has improved. A treadmill test indicated that her oxygen intake had increased. "I've become addicted to the exercise," Ms. Maynard said. "Your body looks forward to the workout."

GRAPHIC: Photo: STEP LIVELY -- Walking paths at the Highsmith company in Wisconsin are a sign of commitment to employees' health. (Andy Manis for The New York Times) Chart: "Staying Put"Since it instituted a corporate program to promote healthier living, Highsmith, a catalog distributor in Wisconsin, has seen its employees turnover rate plunge. Chart tracks turnover rate per year since 1994.(Source: Highsmith of Fort Atkinson, Wis.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (88%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (88%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (75%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (74%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (72%); WALKING & JOGGING (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (57%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; WOMEN; EXERCISE; HEALTH INSURANCE; LABOR; PRODUCTIVITY 

PERSON: LUNDAY, SARAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



591 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 15; Column 1; Women's Health; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: LOOKS; 
Banish Wrinkles in an Hour! (For a While, Anyway)

BYLINE:  By DONNA WILKINSON 

 BODY:
LAST summer, Farley Clark began noticing the signs. "I was starting to get a few little lines around my mouth and eyes and some frown lines on my forehead," she said. "But I didn't think I needed a face-lift yet. I wanted something to perk me up."
 Looking youthful is important to Ms. Clark, a commercial real estate broker in Manhattan who gives her age as 50-ish. But any procedure with a long healing time was out of the question. "In my business it's important to stay competitive," she said. "I wanted to look good right away." 
 Ms. Clark consulted Dr. Michele S. Green, a Manhattan dermatologist who is an attending doctor at Mount Sinai Hospital. She recommended injections of the muscle relaxant Botox for her crow's-feet and frown lines, and the wrinkle filler collagen for the lines around her mouth. 
Since receiving her treatments last July, Ms. Clark has become a convert to the quick fix, returning every few months for a redo. "I have no side effects," she said. "I walk out and look great." 
From fillers to peels to lasers, cosmetic medical techniques today offer a full range of minimally invasive options that can tame anything from facial lines to bulging varicose veins. Often referred to as lunchtime rejuvenation, most techniques can be performed in a doctor's office in about an hour or less. "The wonderful thing about many of these procedures is that there's no pain afterward, no recovery period," Dr. Green said. "When people leave my office, they're happy."
With baby boomers getting older, there has been a sharp rise of interest in ways to stop the clock. Last year, more than 1.3 million people had some kind of plastic surgery procedure -- a 227 percent increase from 1992, according to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons in Arlington, Ill. The use of a nonsurgical treatment like collagen, for instance, rose 51 percent since 1992. 
"There is definitely a trend toward smaller, less invasive procedures," said Dr. Walter L. Erhardt Jr., the president of the society. "And there are a number of reasons why -- technological and procedural advances have allowed it to happen, people are more aware of fitness and wellness, and the economy has allowed people to avail themselves of these things."
Dr. Norman Leaf, a plastic surgeon in Beverly Hills, Calif., and the director of Solutions Skincare Medical Clinic, added: "This medical skin-care type of thing is really catching on. It's nice to have noninvasive aspects and yet it's more intensive than people can get in a regular salon because it's medical." 
Many people are hoping these regular cosmetic medical tuneups may delay surgery. As Ms. Clark said, "If I can put off going under the knife, I will probably continue to do this for the next five years -- as long as I like what I see in the mirror."
How effective are these treatments? Though many can enhance appearance, they will not perform miracles. "They will make you look better on the surface, but they won't tighten a sagging foundation," said Dr. Sherrell J. Aston, a Manhattan plastic surgeon and the chairman of the plastic surgery department at Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital. "A face-lift corrects sagging of the muscles and skin. So if you're talking about loose skin, Botox isn't going to help." 
Here is a sampling of some techniques: 

Preventive Treatment

Botox: Derived from botulinum toxin A, this substance -- when injected in microscopic doses -- temporarily freezes the muscle, thus preventing wrinkles. "Over time it may actually cause atrophy of the muscle and slow down aging," said Dr. Alan Matarasso, a plastic surgeon in Manhattan and clinical associate professor of plastic surgery at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx.

Purpose: To eliminate lines between the brows, on the forehead and around the eyes; can also relax cords on the neck.

Anesthetic: Topical numbing cream.

Recovery: No downtime; effects last three to six months.

Downside: In rare cases, if used improperly in the eyebrow area, excess Botox has been said to produce some temporary drooping of the upper lid.

Cost: About $500 for an area.

Soft-Tissue Augmentation

Fillers: Injected below the surface of the skin, liquid fillers can erase fine lines, wrinkles and depressions in the skin. The most popular filler is collagen, derived from bovine skin. (Another common filler is Dermalogen, from human tissue.)

Purpose: To fill in the lines running from nose to mouth and around the lips; to plump up the lips.

Anesthetic: Topical numbing cream.

Recovery: No downtime; effects last three to six months.

Downside: May cause mild redness that subsides in a few hours; about 3 percent of the population is allergic to collagen, so be sure to be tested.

Cost: $400 to $425 per treatment.

Peels

Light Chemical Peels: Two popular peels are trichloracetic acid (TCA) and glycolic acid. TCA is applied in lower strengths (about 10 percent) and glycolic acid (an alpha-hydroxy acid, the ingredient found in many over-the-counter products) in higher strengths. "The lighter peels, like TCA, are exceptionally good for lines around the mouth," Dr. Leaf said.

Purpose: To exfoliate the skin, promote cell rejuvenation and give the skin a glow; can be used on the face, hands, neck, chest.

Recovery: No downtime.

Downside: May leave some mild redness that subsides in a few hours; may cause mild irritation, dryness and sensitivity to sunlight; and may affect pigment. (People with dark skin should be cautious about getting peels.)
Cost: $125 to $225 a peel; six treatments, one every other week, are recommended.

Microdermabrasion: Similar to polishing, this treatment uses a mechanical device to spray an abrasive -- aluminum oxide crystals -- that sands the skin's outer layer.

Purpose: To exfoliate and give the skin a glow.

Recovery: No downtime.

Downside: May leave mild redness .
Cost: $175 to $200; a series of treatments may be recommended.

Lasers

Nonablative laser treatment: Also called laser toning, this procedure uses a combination of minimally invasive lasers -- like the Nd/YAG and diode -- to encourage the growth of new collagen. "We try to stimulate collagen within the skin's dermis, the deeper layer of the skin," said Dr. Roy Geronemus, a dermatologist and the director of the Laser and Skin Surgery Center of New York, who helped develop the technique. "This seems to have a beneficial effect on the skin's tone."

Purpose: To improve tone and eliminate fine lines and some types of acne scars; can be used on the face, chest, neck, hands.

Anesthetic: Topical or none.

Recovery: No downtime.

Downside: May leave mild redness or swelling that subsides in a few hours.

Cost: $400 to $600 (four to six follow-up treatments are recommended).

Endovascular laser treatment: This painless new technique to eliminate varicose veins, pioneered by Dr. Robert Min, the director of Cornell Vascular and an assistant professor of radiology at the Weill Medical College of Cornell in Manhattan, uses a laser to seal off the saphenous vein from the inside. (The saphenous vein runs from the inner groin to the ankle and is the underlying cause of varicose veins; when it malfunctions, it causes blood to run down instead of up toward the heart, which results in pooling in the blood vessel.) Laser fiber is inserted behind the knee into the saphenous vein, then passed up to the groin, where the vein is sealed with a laser. Closing off the vein causes it to shrink, making the bulging veins disappear. "We seal the vein shut and take care of the leak," Dr. Min said.

Purpose: To eliminate varicose veins.

Anesthetic: Local.

Recovery: Normal activities can be resumed immediately, but patients must wear support hose for a week.

Downside: There may be tenderness along the vein and bruising for about 7 to 10 days. About 500 people have been treated, and few side effects have been reported. But even with the procedure, Dr. Min said, varicose veins can return. "If you have a hereditary predisposition toward varicose veins, we can't get rid of that predisposition."

Cost: About $2,000 a leg; $250 to $500 for follow-up visits to correct smaller veins.

Note: Closure, a similar procedure, uses radiowaves to close the saphenous vein.

How Not to Get Skinned
Where your face is concerned, do not cut corners. It is critical to choose a qualified practitioner who can assess what you need. Though skin care is usually the domain of dermatologists, many plastic surgeons also perform these procedures. "There is a lot of overlap," said Dr. Alan Matarasso, a plastic surgeon in Manhattan.
Experience is what counts most, Dr. Matarasso said. "The key is that whoever is evaluating you must be able to distinguish what needs to be done. So whether it's a dermatologist or a plastic surgeon, you want someone who will say, 'Now wait a minute, injecting this into that loose skin on your jowl is going to be like spitting in the ocean.' "
To find a good doctor, ask your own doctor for a referral or call a university-affiliated hospital. Make sure the doctor is board-certified; dermatologists are accredited by the American Academy of Dermatology, and plastic surgeons by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
Helpful Web sites include the American Academy of Dermatology at www.aad.org and the American Society of Plastic Surgeons at www.plasticsurgery.org; both offer a search function for finding a doctor.
 DONNA WILKINSON

GRAPHIC: Photos: QUICK WORK -- Top left, Farley Clark before treatment by Dr. Michele S. Green, who recently gave her injections of the muscle relaxant Botox for crow's-feet and frown lines, and the wrinkle filler collagen for the lines around her mouth. She liked the results, bottom.; UNSIGHTLY VEINS? NOT FOR LONG -- To remove varicose veins from Natasha Karetskawa, Dr. Robert Min first photographs her leg, then examines the photo, traces a leaking vein with a pen and uses a laser to seal it from within. Sealing cuts off the leak that leads to bulging veins. (Photographs by MICHELLE V. AGINS/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (90%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (89%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (88%); TRENDS (76%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (74%); DERMATOLOGY (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (70%); MINIMALLY INVASIVE SURGERY (70%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (56%); BABY BOOMERS (50%) PLASTIC SURGERY; WOMEN; SURVEYS AND SERIES 

PERSON: WILKINSON, DONNA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



592 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: What the Market Will Bear 

BYLINE:  By James Ryerson; James Ryerson is a senior editor of Lingua Franca.

 BODY:
 FRONTIERS OF LEGAL THEORY
By Richard A. Posner.
453 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press. $35.
 For the past three decades, the world of legal scholarship has been under siege from the forces of the law and economics movement. Hard-line proponents of this movement seek to unify the many scattered territories of the law by reformulating legal concepts in the language and equations of the marketplace. Their conquest is far from complete, but a few areas have been occupied: most good law schools in the country now employ at least one economist, and policy reforms in fields as diverse as antitrust law, environmental regulation and criminal sentencing bear the distinctive imprint of economic analysis. 
Richard A. Posner, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit and a senior lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School, is the most esteemed and intellectually charismatic leader of this movement. To many, he is the judge who would be king. The author or co-author of 25 books and over 1,500 judicial opinions, Posner has played a major role in widening the scope of law and economics from antitrust and tort law to topics ranging from privacy to free speech to racial discrimination. In "Frontiers of Legal Theory," Posner hopes to extend the breadth of his field in another way: by incorporating the insights of other disciplines. After all, if economics can help us understand the human behavior that gives rise to the law, then why not psychology, anthropology and sociology? 
This is not an innocent question. Posner is responding to a longstanding concern with the law and economics movement. The field rests on the assumption that people pursue what they want in the most efficient and rational way possible. But even supporters of law and economics have worried that this supposition, while useful in some contexts, is inadequate in many others. Quite often, critics observe, the behavior of judges, jurors, criminals, consumers and litigants is charged with emotion, distorted by cognitive glitches and failures of will, and constrained by altruism, etiquette or a sense of duty. 
Posner is not discouraged. As his previous books on sex, old age and AIDS suggest, he agrees that the study of law should be made more sensitive to the empirical findings of a wide variety of fields. But though he genuinely welcomes their contributions, he argues here that other disciplines "tend to give up on rational-choice economics too soon." Indeed, much of this book is devoted to showing that economic analysis is robust enough to accommodate practically any evidence about human behavior that it encounters. 
Consider Posner's example of the "availability heuristic." This is the tendency, well documented by cognitive psychologists, of people to exaggerate the importance of immediate impressions when making a complicated decision. For instance, jurors empathize more easily with people who are present in a courtroom than with those who are absent. This cognitive quirk can impair the legal process (say, if a jury is excessively moved by a murderer's plea for mercy). But Posner contends that this predicament does not pose a significant problem for the economic approach to the law: one need simply acknowledge that imagining the suffering of a murder victim "requires more 'effort' (that is, cost) than immediate perception." And the law, Posner says, has in fact counterbalanced this cost by allowing victim impact statements into evidence. Just as economics would have predicted. 
"Frontiers of Legal Theory" offers many such examples where economics and other disciplines "overlap and interpenetrate." The law's obligation to heed historical precedent is considered in light of the economist's notion of "path dependence" (the idea that inefficient practices can be preferable to efficient ones if the cost of shifting from one to the other is high); the surprising reluctance of employees to accept mandated maternity benefits is discussed alongside the biological roots of "the endowment effect" (valuing something just because you have it); the federal rules of evidence are assessed by showing how accuracy in fact-finding creates disincentives for criminal activity; and rational parents are seen to have a greater incentive to instill shame than guilt in their children when it comes to breaking the law. With economics providing the big picture and empirical data from assorted disciplines filling in the details, Posner would have us "glimpse the possibility of legal theory as a unified field of social science." 
It is hard to know what to make of such an ambitious project. Is the apparatus of economics really supple enough to handle so many sorts of facts about the world? If it is, is that something that should impress us or something that should make us suspicious? 
In his classic work "Economic Analysis of Law," Posner himself cautioned that by making the basic scheme of economics more complex, one risks "a model so rich that no empirical observation can refute it." So the proof must be in the pudding: the vindication of the law and economics movement lies in its ability to make accurate predictions about the future, not to offer plausible explanations for past events. 
ON its own, "Frontiers of Legal Theory" does not provide compelling evidence that economics can do all that Posner wants it to. He rightly points out that many alternatives to law and economics seem to lack the power to generate predictions at all. And few would question the past success of law and economics in predicting the consequences of certain statutes, judicial opinions and policy proposals. But the evidence for the movement's most grand and sweeping claims has been famously ambiguous, and there seems little reason to suppose it won't be here as well. 
The good news is that you don't have to share Posner's vision of legal theory as a unified science in order to embrace his call for more empirical knowledge in the law. There is an abundance of scholarship that deals with the formal merits of legal reasoning; everyone could use additional information from a variety of disciplines about how the law actually works. As Posner confesses, even much of law and economics is "empirical in spirit yet nonquantitative" in practice. 
To a crusader like Posner, for whom many of the law's trickiest questions can be "decomposed into pure questions of fact," such knowledge is essential. But for more typical judges, policy makers and scholars, it is enough to realize that facts matter -- even if one disputes how much they matter, and when they do. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (86%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (78%); LAWYERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); LITERATURE (72%); TORTS (72%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); SENTENCING (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); DISCRIMINATION (66%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (61%); APPEALS COURTS (54%); RACE & RACISM (51%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: POSNER, RICHARD A; RYERSON, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: FRONTIERS OF LEGAL THEORY (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



593 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: Townies 

BYLINE:  By A. O. Scott; A. O. Scott is a film critic at The Times.

 BODY:
 EMPIRE FALLS
By Richard Russo.
483 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $25.95.
 IF Richard Russo had wanted an epigraph for his new novel, he might have chosen a few lines from Lou Reed's album "Berlin": "Men of good fortune / often cause empires to fall / While men of poor beginning / often can't do anything at all." Granted, "Empire Falls" is too tangled and populous to be summed up in an aphorism, but it is nonetheless grounded in the New England bedrock of class-bound fatalism.
The man of good fortune, his unhappy courtship and thwarted ambitions chronicled in a prologue, his grim end in an epilogue, is C. B. Whiting, prodigal son of the family whose shirt factory dominates the central Maine mill town that gives the novel its name. While C. B.'s abdication -- he prefers poetry to business and Mexico to Maine -- may not be the direct cause of the town's decline (corporate mergers and the globalization of the labor market would have happened anyway), his mysterious ruin casts its shadow over the lives of his less privileged fellow citizens.
One of these is Miles Roby, the son of an itinerant house painter and a factory clerk, whose tragic flaw is that he has never been prodigal enough. Miles is a nice guy, but his decency is sometimes hard to distinguish from passivity, and it has left him, at 42, stranded in a town he once longed to escape. He can't say no to C. B.'s widow (who rules Empire Falls like the Yankee transplantation of a Tennessee Williams matriarch), can't save his ex-wife from another unhappy marriage, can't rein in his cantankerous father, can't protect the 16-year-old daughter he adores -- can't, in short, do anything at all. He's Russo's hero.
And Russo is mine. Fans of his previous novels -- "Mohawk," "The Risk Pool," "Nobody's Fool" and "Straight Man" -- will be gratified to find the familiar elements in place: a dying Northern industrial town (though in New England this time, rather than upstate New York); a bumptious cast of sharp-tongued women, sarcastic old-timers and characters vain, dumb or venal enough to serve as the butt of everyone else's jokes; a tone of affable, chop-busting comedy darkened by minor chords of heartbreak and frustration.
But the not entirely tongue-in-cheek portentousness of the title suggests that something bigger is at stake, that the carefully observed scenes of provincial life will add up to something panoramic and important and that Russo may at last have joined his fellow Northerners Russell Banks, Frederick Busch and Joyce Carol Oates in trying to rescue the proud, battered regional realist tradition from cuteness, eccentricity and sentimental condescension. The presentation of "Empire Falls" -- its bulk, its title, its solemn cover painting of a red-brick factory against a gray-and-yellow sky -- promises not only local color but sublimity.
The promise is made only half in earnest and only half kept, which is good news. Russo is brave enough to conceive a large ambition, but too smart to overreach. The publisher's blurb announces a saga "shot through with the mysteries of generations and the shattering visitations of the nation at large," but such unwieldy grandiosity (to say nothing of gaseous prose) is mercifully absent from Russo's repertory. Instead, you intuit the scale of the story and its wider implications through the eyes and voices of individuals preoccupied with fairly mundane visitations -- like the comings and goings of Miles's father, Max, a jocular ne'er-do-well with little regard for anyone else's feelings and even less for his own hygiene. "He becomes a public nuisance every now and then when he tires of being a private one," Miles's mother, Grace, once explained.
Miles's own private sufferings -- his still-raw grief over Grace's death, his anger at the circumstances that robbed him of his chance to finish college and leave Empire Falls behind -- occasionally illuminate the transformation of the town's (and the nation's) public life. Miles, whose mother wanted him to go to college out of state "so you won't be able to come home whenever you want to," returned in his senior year to take care of her in her final illness and ended up managing the Empire Grill instead of becoming a college professor. Miles, who has served a few terms on the school board and volunteers to paint his parish church, is both a solid citizen and a representative man. Like most of his neighbors, he has stayed put out of a mixture of loyalty, hard luck and self-defeating stubbornness:
"They stayed, many of them, because staying was easier and less scary than leaving, and because for a while at least they'd be able to draw unemployment benefits. Others remained out of pride. When the realization dawned that they were the victims of corporate greed and global economic forces, they said, O.K., sure, fine, they'd been fools but they would not, by God, be run out of the town their grandparents and parents had grown up in and called home. The fortunate ones were older, their modest houses nearly paid off; close to retirement, they would limp to the finish line, then help their less fortunate sons and daughters as best they could."
In such circumstances, to ask for more amounts nearly to hubris, and the unforgiving moral universe of Empire Falls seems engineered to frustrate even the most tentative pursuits of happiness. Janine, Miles's ex-wife, just wants a little sexual fulfillment after nearly two decades of passionless matrimony, but the price she pays for the occasional orgasm is marriage to a narcissistic cheapskate named Walt Comeau and the alienation of her daughter's affection. Grace, whose blissful dalliance on Martha's Vineyard with an enigmatic sugar daddy named Charlie Mayne dominates Miles's childhood memories, was punished with a middle age of humiliation and servitude. Miles, too adept at compromise for his own good, has learned to make do with a yearly sojourn on the Vineyard as he nurses the hope that his daughter, Tick, will have the kind of future he was cruelly (and partly by his own choice) denied.
Russo knows his characters too well to allow them the luxury of victimhood or to indulge in the grim determinism of some of his peers. His humane sympathy for weakness and self-deception -- a sympathy extended even to the manipulative Mrs. Whiting and her minion, a dimwitted policeman named Jimmy Minty -- does not rule out stern satiric judgment. The people of Empire Falls are not held down simply by fate or by their own bad choices but by the active collaboration of their neighbors and loved ones: the cruel priest who helps break Grace Roby's spirit, the myopic art teacher who tries to break Tick's, and the teenage football star (Jimmy Minty's son Zack) who mocks and torments a lonely misfit named John Voss. One of the old-fashioned pleasures of "Empire Falls" comes from the delicious expectation that the villains will receive their comeuppance and that the good guys will find at least a morsel of the satisfaction they so desperately (and often half-consciously) crave.
Russo's command of his story is unerring, but his manner is so unassuming that his mastery is easy to miss. He satisfies every expectation without lapsing into predictability, and the last section of the book explodes with surprises that also seem, in retrospect, like inevitabilities. As the pace quickens and the disparate threads of the narrative draw tighter, you find yourself torn between the desire to rush ahead and the impulse to slow down.
Empire Falls, situated at a fictitious and unlovely bend of the Knox River, is the kind of place tourists from Boston or New York speed through en route to the mini-Martha's Vineyards of the Maine coast, perhaps stopping for lunch at a place like the Empire Grill and eavesdropping on the taciturn, wisecracking regulars. By the end of this novel, you'll know the town's geography like a native, and its tattered landmarks -- the Empire Grill, the old Whiting shirt factory, the architectural folly C. B. Whiting built across the river -- will be as vivid and as charged with metaphor as Salem's house of seven gables or the mansions of East Egg. You will also have had the good fortune to tour this unremarkable geography in the company of an amiable, witty raconteur who knows all the gossip and the local history as well as some pretty good jokes. Only after you've bought him a beer, shaken his hand and said goodbye will it occur to you that he's also one of the best novelists around.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nathan Fox) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (74%); FAMILY (74%); MARRIAGE (74%); LITERATURE (73%); MERGERS (72%); APPAREL MFG (68%); GLOBALIZATION (67%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: SCOTT, A O; RUSSO, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MAINE, USA (88%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: EMPIRE FALLS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



594 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 3573 words

HEADLINE: Harvard's Hoard 

BYLINE:  By Johanna Berkman; Johanna Berkman, a former Goldman Sachs analyst, has written for Lingua Franca, New York and Worth.

 BODY:
Next Sunday, Lawrence Summers becomes the 27th president of Harvard. But the distance from the Treasury Department to this particular ivory tower is not as great as it once might have been. Summers will have less money to play with than he did in his last job, as treasury secretary, but the endowment of the institution he inherits has climbed in recent months to as much as $19 billion -- a sum greater than the physical assets of McDonald's, the G.D.P. of Ecuador, the net worth of all but 5 of the Forbes 400 or, according to The Boston Globe, the endowment of every nonprofit institution in the world after the Roman Catholic Church. As the head of Harvard, there will be no escaping the burdens of high finance. 
 Or low. Summers's appointment in April was barely a month old before Massachusetts Hall, which houses his new office, was taken over by dozens of students protesting Harvard's failure to provide a "living wage" of $10.25 to all its employees. Over the next 26 days, tents popped up in Harvard Yard, as students, professors and workers slept outside in sympathy. Robert Reich, the former labor secretary, dropped by to show support. Senator Edward Kennedy tried to enter the building to meet with the students, but the police wouldn't allow it. Newspapers across the country ran editorials taking Harvard to task for refusing to spend even the smallest fraction of its endowment to improve the lives of its workers. Drawings of Summers as Marie Antoinette began to go up around Harvard Yard. 
 If the issues of the protest are small for such a rich and enormous institution -- about 400 employees and several hundred contract workers are affected by the university's position, which it has pledged to reconsider -- they call attention to a growing chorus of critics who believe that Harvard is at least squandering an opportunity to rethink its culture, or even its mission, in light of that one stunning number: $19 billion. (The next largest endowment, Yale's, is $10 billion.)
"It's absurd," says Reich, who has taught at Harvard. "There's no reason to raise a giant endowment merely for the sake of having a giant endowment." Jeffrey Sachs, a Harvard economics professor, is a bit more philosophical: "We all have the sense that this is a remarkable amount of money. The question is, To what purpose will it be put?"
Harvard surely wouldn't lack for recommendations if it wanted them. Frank Newman, the director of the higher education policy program at the Pew Charitable Trusts and the former president of the University of Rhode Island, notes that universities receive favorable tax treatment because society expects them to be "above and beyond corporate citizenship, to take the steps that help make society better." He suggests that Harvard spend more money to mentor minority students or to study such national issues as the health-care system. Sachs says that Harvard should "increase the knowledge capacity" in the developing world; Reich talks about Harvard "replicating itself" both globally and nationally. Todd Plants, who graduated from the college two weeks ago and was the chairman of the Student Affairs Committee last year, argues for more financial aid. (And you can see his point: tuition, room and board for the last four years cost $126,486, which more than a third of this year's 1,602 graduates paid in full.)
But Harvard has been reluctant to think creatively about its increased wealth. Last fall, for example, at a meeting of the Harvard Management Company board, which oversees the investment of the university's endowment, one member posed an intriguing question: Do we want to be fully endowed? At the time, Harvard's endowment was paying out enough income to cover 27 percent of the university's $2 billion operating budget. Would it be worthwhile to try to cover the whole thing? To make the school free to all 18,000 students? To liberate its 2,000 professors from grant writing to concentrate on teaching and research? The question was a nonstarter, says Elizabeth Huidekoper, Harvard's vice president for finance. The conversation "didn't quite go that far."
In January, Princeton (endowment: $8.4 billion) promised to abolish student loans. In April, Cornell (endowment: $3.4 billion) said it would open a medical school campus in the tiny Persian Gulf nation of Qatar. But the three largest nonannual expenditures of the outgoing president Neil Rudenstine's tenure capture Harvard's conservative approach when it comes to innovative spending: the purchase of 29 developed acres up the Charles River in Watertown for $168 million; the purchase of 48 developed acres across the river in Allston for $150 million; and the costs of formally merging with nearby Radcliffe for another $150 million. Ask about satellite campuses or online education, and you'll hear that such steps are too expensive. Ask about covering students' tuition, and you'll learn that paying for your schooling is a virtue. ("There's something good about hunger," one dean says. "It is important for our students to be co-investors in their own education.") Ask whether the recent $120 million operating surplus is a sign that Harvard could think of some new ways to spend its money, and you'll be told that that amount, left over after subtracting operating expenses from the sum total of endowment payouts, tuition, research grants and other income, is not all that significant. ("It's in the noise," Rudenstine says.) Rudenstine dismisses calls for a change in Harvard's spending strategies as the usual campus grumbling or the agitation of uninformed outsiders.
It is true that the situation looks more complicated from the inside. Perhaps because its purpose is to preserve generational equity in perpetuity, the Harvard endowment is often talked about as if it were a single, monolithic entity. In fact, it comprises 9,600 funds donated over the last three centuries. (Harvard's buildings, which the university carries at a depreciated value of $1.7 billion on its balance sheet, as well as its vast art collections and landholdings, are not included.) At most universities, the president controls the endowment. At Harvard, the endowment funds belong to whichever of the 10 schools they were donated. The result, a system known internally as "Every tub on its own bottom," has produced wide disparities in wealth. The richest by far is the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, the university's undergraduate and graduate core; its endowment is $8 billion, greater than that of every other university but Yale, Texas, Stanford and Princeton. Next in size are Harvard's medical ($2.1 billion) and business ($1.3 billion) schools. Two of the poorest are education ($290 million) and design ($250 million).
Despite its decentralized budget pool, Harvard is an incredible fund-raising machine. When the university's governing body, the Harvard Corporation, hired Rudenstine in 1991, it wanted a conciliator who could bring together the independent deans to collaborate on the first university-wide campaign since the 1940's. An unexpected bonus, says Ronald Daniel, Harvard's treasurer, was that the quiet, self-effacing former Princeton provost became a magnet for big donors. Under Rudenstine's watch, Harvard conducted a six-year, $2.1 billion fund-raising campaign -- and exceeded its goal by $500 million. More than 68 percent of this $2.6 billion came from gifts of $1 million or more; there were 498 of these. And while only two gifts were $50 million or more, 90 donors gave gifts of $5 million or more. That Harvard is already so rich, and so much richer than every other school, seems only to enhance rather than to hinder its ability to attract large gifts. "I like to back a good organization," says Thomas H. Lee, the centimillionaire leveraged-buyout fund manager, explaining why he gave such a wealthy school $22 million. "Excellence is expensive."
Harvard cultivates this crowd through an invitation-only organization called the Committee on University Resources, which was founded at the end of the 1960's to encourage those who have been generous to Harvard to give even more. A few years ago, for example, a university official told a COUR member, Albert J. Weatherhead 3rd, the owner of Weatherhead Industries in Cleveland, "You're Harvard's third largest living donor, and you won't rest until you are No. 1." Weatherhead, who has given a total of nearly $50 million to the school, says, "I just love that quote." When Rudenstine took office, there were 200 COUR members; today there are 400.
Typically, COUR's annual spring gathering, which takes place over two days in Cambridge, has a theme. During the last campaign, these included globalization and ethics. This year's event, however, was "really unusual," says William Boardman, Harvard's associate vice president for capital giving. "We didn't have a lot of fund-raising to talk about." Rather than something academic, he chose a theme more central to the lives of committee members, and perhaps the school as well: wealth management.
From his 16th-floor perch inside the Boston Federal Reserve office tower, Jack Meyer, Harvard Management Company's president and C.E.O., oversees a staff of 185 and the investment of the university's billions. Were it not for the sign on the door, you would have no idea that H.M.C. is a university-owned nonprofit rather than an independent, highly sophisticated money-management firm. There is the water view, the beautiful wood paneling and the very for-profit salaries. Last year, H.M.C.'s top five performing portfolio managers earned bonuses totaling more than $50 million. The single biggest payout went to the foreign-equity manager. He got $17 million, more than 48 times as much as Rudenstine's compensation of $352,650.
Once, these bonuses made Meyer, a friendly man who speaks with the fast clip common among those who wield power on Wall Street, a scourge in the Harvard community. "In the early 90's, I received a lot of correspondence that was somewhat less than friendly," he says. Today, after the long bull market, even Jeremy Knowles, the arts and sciences dean, has made peace with Harvard's rewarding those who produce wealth much more generously than those who produce knowledge: "I ask myself, How much would they have made at Goldman Sachs?" (Knowles's salary, like that of every dean but that of the medical school, is less than $300,000. The average salary of a full professor at Harvard is $135,200.) 
Harvard began its metamorphosis into a hedge fund in the mid-70's, when, after a pair of Ford Foundation monographs encouraged universities to invest more aggressively, it set up its own shop. Since Meyer took over in 1990, H.M.C. has employed an aggressive but diversified arbitrage strategy to make a fortune for the university's endowment -- $4.3 billion last year alone, a sum roughly equal to Columbia University's entire endowment. H.M.C. has also spread its investment tentacles into 68 private equity and venture-capital firms and seeds new investment funds too. The first -- there are now four, all run by former employees -- was seeded in 1998, when H.M.C.'s top-performing hedge-fund manager, Jonathon Jacobson, quit to start his own firm shortly after receiving a $10 million bonus. The deal: Meyer gave Jacobson $500 million to manage in exchange for reduced fees. Another dividend: as a free agent at Highfields Capital Management, Jacobson can invest Harvard's money in controversial holdings -- he has invested in casino stocks, for example -- while reducing the risk of a major P.R. blow-up. (H.M.C.'s only in-house prohibition is tobacco investments.) Last year, according to the university's tax returns, H.M.C. paid Highfields $29 million for investment-management services.
Another factor helping the growth of the endowment has been Harvard's conservative payout policy. While the endowment's returns have surpassed the internal target of 6 to 6.5 percent above inflation for the last nine years, the corporation has paid out only 4.2 percent of its endowment on average to the deans for spending, less than the typical university target of 4.5 to 5 percent. The strategy has netted the university additional billions. 
'Harvard's money became a puzzle to me," says the psychologist Carol Gilligan, who will resign from her post as a professor at the School of Education next spring and teach full time at New York University. "Where are the resources of the university going?" she asks. Over at the far wealthier law school (endowment: $930 million), Prof. Alan Dershowitz expresses a similar befuddlement over why he has had such a difficult time getting funds for the public-interest-law program. "Harvard's goal is to die with the most amount of money," he says. "It should not be the goal."
Rudenstine counters with a lament: "Everyone thinks of the $19.1 billion as one pot of money. It's thousands of pots of money that are restricted accounts."
In fact, 87 percent of the Harvard endowment is "restricted" to either a particular school or specific purposes at that school. Still, Harvard's claim that its hands are tied when it comes to spending remains open to question. First, Harvard, rather than wealthy donors, at times creates those restrictions. Take the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs. The Weatherheads had already given Harvard four professorships and wanted to have a global impact; they would have considered an unrestricted gift (so long as it was "mind engaging"). Second, there has been as much as $920 million sitting unrestricted in the university's $3 billion general operating account. Much of that sum was generated in an unusual fashion -- by taking funds the deans set aside for near-term use, investing that money into the endowment and paying the deans a money-market rate of return while keeping the difference for the central administration. "If you want to say it was risky, I can certainly agree with you," Rudenstine says, but "in the end, proof happens in the pudding."
But what is the point? Why run the machinery this way? Lani Guinier, a professor at Harvard Law, thinks she understands Harvard's values. "Money has become the exclusive denominator," she says. "It defines everything: prestige, excellence, competence, commitment to the public good." Leon Botstein, the president of Bard College, sets Harvard in a broader social context. "We've reduced our definition of worth into fame and wealth, and it carries over into the way institutions think about themselves," he says. "An overwhelmingly huge part of what Harvard is about is managing its money. The absurd theory is, Harvard is safe if there's an atomic bomb that destroys all of America -- Harvard will continue. Learning and studying are very simple things, and the values they require are the love of learning and intellectual curiosity. Are they fostered by wealth? I don't think so. Smugness is fostered by wealth."
Even those from institutions that have profited in the same ways Harvard has, if less spectacularly, question Harvard's choices. James Freedman, the president of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, tells me that as a former president of Dartmouth College (endowment: $2.5 billion), he "can't throw stones at others." But within a matter of minutes, he is arguing for a radical revision of Harvard's endowment policies: "You really wonder why Harvard, out of its $19 billion, couldn't take $1 billion and say, 'This is the capital that will fund our scholarships."' John Hennessey, the president of Stanford University (endowment: $8.7 billion), which recently received the largest gift ever made to higher education -- a $400 million matching grant from the Hewlett Foundation -- says it's time for Harvard to re-examine its financial priorities. The issue of whether the endowment is big enough or if its size warrants fundamental changes to the school's mission is one that the next president of Harvard "will have to face," he says.
When I relay some of these comments and suggestions to Rudenstine, he characterizes his first three years at Harvard as a "nightmare" because of the early-90's recession and deficits at the school. "So my first question when anybody says something about what any university should be doing is, Tell me how much you know about running a university." When I reply that some of these critics do (or have) run colleges and universities, he asks: "But do they know anything about Harvard? Harvard is different."
Harvard is indeed different. as Howard Gardner, a professor at the Graduate School of Education, notes: "Harvard is older than the United States, and I think there's a reason for that. It's been very well managed." That management denies Harvard's president the authority to spend the university's money as he sees fit. But Summers will have power all the same. There is, for starters, the unrestricted money in the general operating account; that $920 million alone is more than the entire endowment of Boston University ($913 million) or Georgetown ($745 million). As the fund-raiser in chief, too, Harvard's president can steer donors toward particular projects. 
While there's no indication that Summers plans to shift Harvard's strategy, there are those who believe he has precisely the kind of credentials to effect change if he wants to. In terms of brilliance and force of personality, Summers -- who at 28 was the youngest professor to receive tenure at Harvard in its modern history -- is as well equipped as anyone. And it stands to reason that the Harvard officials who chose him had more in mind than hiring a financial campaign guru. "If you were focused on money and fund-raising, that was probably not where Larry's competitive advantage lay," says his mentor and predecessor at Treasury, Robert Rubin. "He's much more caught up in the question of Harvard's mission."
Not that it would be easy. Should Summers seek to generate greater societal and intellectual returns on his school's money, he would need to persuade the corporation, which sets the endowment payouts, to be more generous. He would probably run into resistance. A remark from Harvard's treasurer, Ronald Daniel, suggests why: "Harvard is still a long way from having 'more than what it needs,"' he says. Even where there is no doubt about the school's financial security, ingrained caution toward spending is a brake. (Harvard was, of course, founded by Puritans.) When faculty members think about the endowment, they tend to share Harvard's conservative spending values. "What the $19 billion ought to allow us to do is be very thoughtful about how we go about making decisions," Gardner says. But mostly it is not a concern. As Henry Louis Gates Jr., who runs Harvard's Afro-American studies department, describes the endowment: "It's like the air we breathe. We take it for granted. It's around you all the time, so you don't think about it."
And were Summers to act, he would first have to contend with the great intramural disparities. The deans of the rich schools are likely to favor the capitalist status quo -- Every tub on its own bottom does make a larger number of people both responsible and accountable," says Knowles, the arts and sciences dean -- while it's hard to imagine the poorer deans entirely ignoring the untapped coffers around them. At the School of Public Health, which lacks a core of wealthy alumni supporters, Barry Bloom, its dean, describes his tub's financial set-up as "a pretty hazardous situation," because 59 percent of his professors' salaries are paid for with grant-sponsored funds. He says it "would be reasonable" if Harvard paid at least half.
Many are skeptical that the money race is over. As Harvey Cox, a Harvard Divinity School professor who has been teaching there since 1965, says: "The idea that the big capital fund-raising drive came to an end when Neil Rudenstine announced whatever colossal amount of money it was, is simply not true. The next day, we were, of course, raising money again." Sachs, the economics professor, acknowledges feeling like a "relentless fund-raising machine," but he expects change soon: "Harvard now has the happy circumstance of being able to move in a new direction." Arthur Levine, the president of Teachers College at Columbia University, likens Summers to Charles Eliot, Harvard's president from 1869 to 1909, who transformed the school into a modern national institution: "The task before him is to take a Harvard that has been the leader in industrial America and make it into the foremost university in an information age, and he has the resources to do it."
So far, this generation's Eliot has spent much of his time on airplanes, traveling around to meet Harvard's biggest donors, which is, depending on how you look at it, either an inauspicious harbinger for his presidency or simply a matter of Realpolitik. Or maybe nobody's business but the school's and that of its citizens and donors. When we spoke this spring, Summers said it was "very premature to be making vision statements." Fair enough. Still, it's hard to lie low when you have $19 billion, especially when it derives in part from favorable tax policies. For now, at least, he describes fund-raising as just a means to an intellectual end. "If the time were ever to come when we were consuming large amounts of resources and not making a commensurate contribution to teaching and knowledge," he says, "that would be a very serious problem, indeed." 

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Everett Peck) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); LIVING WAGE (77%); CHARITIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); RELIGION (69%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (54%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (91%); TED KENNEDY (52%) SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H; RUDENSTINE, NEIL L; BERKMAN, JOHANNA 

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



595 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut; 
Extensive Acreage Is Conserved at Luxury Projects

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
WITH buildable acreages dwindling to a trickle in elite communities from Greenwich to Litchfield, builders are pouncing on leftover parcels from former farms and estates, foreclosed properties and properties in locations out of the fashionable neighborhoods.
 Seemingly immune to a softening market, custom-home builders and large developers alike are using these pockets of land to create elegant, expensive and very private new mini-neighborhoods. 
 While only a few homes are built on such parcels, towns are exacting a price that was initiated decades ago for sprawling subdivisions of hundreds of homes on immense tracts of land. Typically, a minimum of 15 percent of the property must be dedicated in perpetuity to the municipality or a private conservation organization. But depending on environmental concerns, site access and other conditions as much as 70 percent of a single lot can be consigned to conservation. 
In Greenwich's back country, 16.3 acres out of 34.7 acres, or 47 percent of the property, has been set aside in a conservation easement at Old Round Hill Road Estates on Old Mill Road. Homeowners are permitted to walk the area, but nothing will ever be built there, trees cannot be cut down nor can any activity take place that disturbs the natural landscape.
The property was acquired 17 months ago as an approved subdivision from a local family trust. To date, the new owners, a joint venture of the Fieber Group L.L.C. and Alex Kaali-Nagy of New Canaan, are constructing three of an eventual seven custom-designed homes of 10,000 to 14,500 square feet on two to three acres each. Two of them are under contract. Prices start at almost $7.3 million, including a pool and tennis court. 
"Buyers are coming from within Greenwich and from New York," said Shelley Tretter, the development's sales agent from Sotheby's Greenwich office. "They are different from buyers of the 80's -- they are cautious. They want a sound investment, traditional architecture, extraordinary detail, high quality and timeless appeal." 
These are the last palatially sized houses to be built in Greenwich on two- and three-acre lots. Had the subdivision been approved after 1998, the developers would have been subject to new regulations intended to halt the proliferation of McMansions. Only 7,841 square feet would be allowed on two acres and 8,167 square feet on three acres. Moreover, no pool houses, guest houses or other structures would be permitted.
On Deming Road at the northern border of Litchfield, an open house was held this month for a 5,200-square-foot model home on 14.7 acres at Litchfield Hollow. It is priced at $825,000, reduced from $865,000. The property was acquired in foreclosure four years ago by the developer, Richard E. Mute, head of American Building Systems Inc. of Bristol. Two years were spent in obtaining approvals from town boards and another 18 months in construction. 
FIVE additional lots are available within the total 52.2 acres. Prices will be governed by the houses, all of which will be built by Mr. Mute. Buyers may bring in their own designs, subject to his approval. They must be in a similar country colonial style.
Prices in both communities, at the high end of their markets, seem to fly in the face of a climate in which job losses and lapsed mortgage payments are increasing. "We have a shortage of inventory in Litchfield," said David Luzi, whose local brokerage handles Litchfield Hollow, "and we are still getting multiple offers."
Edward Deak, professor of economics at Fairfield University, said: "There is enough income and wealth in greater New York and lower Fairfield -- and even among the landed gentry and weekenders in Litchfield -- to absorb million dollar properties. Athletes, old and new Wall Streeters with enormous incomes but possibly short earning capacities appreciate the tax advantages and the eminent salability of the real estate."
Subdivisions like these, he added, where the builder has taken the opportunity to provide a very private neighborhood of homes that complement each other on the same economic level, sited so that the children can play together, "enhances their value," he said. "It makes all of them worth that much more." 
Two lots of 4 acres and 4.7 acres at Litchfield Hollow are exempt, but a conservation easement applies to the model house and remaining three lots of 6 to 14 acres. Twenty-three acres will be conserved by consigning 25, 50, 50 and 70 percent of those lots to conservation, depending on the topography of the lots, with the model house at the maximum. The house sits on about four landscaped acres of the 14.7-acre lot. Beyond the back lawn the easement begins in a forest where nothing may be built, stored or dumped, trees may not be cut down and the property may not be subdivided. 
With the exception of one house at Old Round Hill Estates in Greenwich that fronts on Round Hill Road, driveways in both developments are off one private road ending in a cul-de-sac. In Greenwich the road will be paved in Belgian block, which looks like refined cobblestone, with granite curbings. In Litchfield it is unpaved rustic gravel-over-dirt with no curbings.
Imposing stone walls and a gate will mark the entry into the Greenwich development and each individual driveway will be gated; in Litchfield there are low stone walls but no gates. Within each development's overarching style -- English Georgian in Greenwich; New England colonial in Litchfield -- every home will be distinctive. 
At the Litchfield Hollow location, houses may be set back as little as 50 feet from the road and 45 feet from the side lot lines. If they were built in more populated areas, like the in-town historic district, 121-foot and 199-foot setbacks for front and side yards would be required and the number of lots would have been reduced. 
Originally, Mr. Mute applied for 14 lots, but wound up with only six after the town's Planning and Zoning and Inland Wetlands Commissions cut back on his usable land. To provide access to the property, he was required to build a road and a small bridge with wooden railings over the narrow Bantam River. His request to build a box culvert through which the river could run at a fraction of the cost of a bridge, was denied by the town as too urban and a threat to fish and wildlife. 
The 10-room model house has a massive see-through stone fireplace open to the living room and cathedral-ceilinged library; four additional fireplaces; crown moldings; cherry, oak and marble floors; custom kitchen and bathroom cabinetry; a 21- by 24-foot widow's walk accessible through a hatch; three-car garage; playroom; family room; wrap-around bluestone terraces; stainless steel gas barbecue and sink on the back terrace; a hot air heating and humidifying system; unfinished cast concrete wine cellar; and extensive landscaping. 
The developers at Old Round Hill Estates in Greenwich offer stone, brick and clapboard exteriors; pillared front entries; custom architectural detail; paneled libraries; a home theater; home office; two playrooms; up to seven bedrooms and 10 full and half-baths; four- or five-car garages; separate formal and family dining rooms; mud rooms; custom kitchen cabinetry; and mature plantings.
AT least two more subdivisions are on the market in Litchfield, where lots are for sale without houses. High Mark on Chestnut Hill Road has three out of five lots of 2.5 to 13 acres available at $120,000 to $225,000. The remaining two are under contract. 
Falcon's Flight on Butternut Road, which opened two years ago, is larger -- 17 lots on a former farm. "We sold some lots to builders and others to individuals who are building their own homes," said Allan Temkin, an associate of the developer, Falcon's Flight Farms L.L.C. Two lots of five acres each are available at $179,000 per lot. Both have stone wall entrances and split rail fencing. 
Bruce Wernert, owner of a 3.3-acre parcel on Valley Road in Greenwich, has renovated the property's 2,500-square-foot Normandy-style house for sale at $1.3 million and a three-quarter-acre lot is under contract for $475,000. The buyer will build his own house.
Mr. Wernert is donating the remaining two lots to the Greenwich Land Trust. "It makes sense to do this," he said. "You get a tax deduction for a charitable donation at full appraisal value, and you don't have to deal with issues about whether or where you can build. A lot of people are doing it. If you don't need the land, no one wants to pay taxes on it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Luzi, left, broker, and Richard E. Mute, developer, on widow's walk of Litchfield Hollow model home. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); ART DEALERS (70%); TENNIS (69%); SPORTS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: MUTE, RICHARD E 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) LITCHFIELD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



596 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
In Taiwan, an Anti-Modern Poet Of Modern Anomie

BYLINE:  By LESLIE CAMHI; Leslie Camhi writes from New York about film, art and books.

DATELINE: CANNES, France 

 BODY:
DAYS before the start of the new millennium, as an endless rain falls over a high-rise Taipei neighborhood, a woman's wallpaper is peeling and her walls are inundated. A plumber looking for leaks leaves a hole in the floor of the apartment above her, where a man lives alone. For him, the hole is an object of idle curiosity and a place to spill bodily excretions; for her it's a possible source of contagion. The radio has broadcast warnings of a strange virus causing people to crawl like bugs and seek refuge in dark, humid corners. He drinks, she cleans; each dines alone on instant noodles and tries to stave off the growing sense of panic and isolation. Sometimes, the woman dreams of escape: elaborately coiffed and dressed in gorgeous plumes and sequins, she croons show tunes from a 1960's Hong Kong musical, infusing them with manic joie de vivre. 
 "When making a film, I never think of the plot first, but rather I think in terms of concept or revelation," said Tsai Ming-liang, the director of "The Hole" (1996), speaking Mandarin through an interpreter at a beachside restaurant here last month. His latest work, "What Time Is It There?" had just had its premiere at the Cannes International Film Festival. "If you can't get into my films metaphorically," he added, "you'll miss them altogether." In "The Hole," the orifice shared by two disconnected people in a ruined world becomes an umbilical cord uniting them, and, finally, their last hope for communication. 
 The tenderly absurdist and deeply humanist vision of this 43-year-old director is the focus of a retrospective beginning Friday at the Walter Reade Theater at Lincoln Center, which will include all but the last of his five features. Following the series, his 1996 film, "The River," opens commercially on July 27. Though few New Yorkers know Taipei well, many will recognize the universe Mr. Tsai's characters inhabit: an urban environment in constant mutation, whose lawless growth and rapid abandonment mirrors the characters' internal disarray and desolation.
His Taipei is a city with no points of reference, where prosperity vies with environmental degradation and people come together and disconnect in a seemingly random fashion. There are no landmarks, only neon-lit overpasses, unmarked highway crossings and fast-food restaurants serving green drinks in underground shopping malls. Homes, whether luxurious or spartan, are merely provisional shelters, thrown up haphazardly. Water pools around clogged drains or runs down from leaky ceilings, overflowing and uncontainable. And, in a prefabricated apartment, a father, mother and son cross paths without speaking, as if they were boarders rather than family.
This poet of urban anomie grew up in rural Malaysia, one of seven children born to Chinese immigrant farmers. "I lived mostly with my grandparents, who were noodle sellers," he recalled. "Their only hobby was watching movies. Every night they'd take me."
Malaysia's cinemas were filled with commercial Hong Kong fare. But after moving to Taiwan in 1977, and while studying drama at the Chinese Cultural University in Taipei, Mr. Tsai encountered the works of European auteurs from the 60's and 70's like Michelangelo Antonioni, Rainer Werner Fassbinder and Francois Truffaut. "The revelation was that I could be real in my creativity," he said. "That plots didn't have to be linear, and that style, form and content could be close to life."
Lee Kang-sheng, the star of all Mr. Tsai's films (like a Taiwanese James Dean, but more reserved and quizzical), was discovered by Mr. Tsai while working in a shop. Lu Yi-ching (formerly known as Lu Hsaio-ling), who frequently plays Mr. Lee's mother, owns the Taipei cafe where Mr. Tsai wrote scripts for his early television melodramas. As the father, Miao Tien, a veteran actor in martial arts dramas, completes the shifting Oedipal triangle that recurs in Mr. Tsai's work and that captures (like Truffaut's Antoine Doinel, played by Jean-Pierre Leaud in four films) a decade of lives on screen.
"He's created his own cosmos," said Kent Jones, associate director of programming at the Film Society of Lincoln Center. "His is a hair-raisingly coherent oeuvre."
Taiwanese directors who emerged in the 1980's, like Hou Hsaio-hsien and Edward Yang, were fueled by the need to question the military-controlled, emigre Nationalist government's official version of history. Mr. Tsai's preoccupations are more contemporary and personal, including Taipei's restless youth and gay subcultures, troubled father-son relationships and the effects of unbridled capitalism on private life and public spaces.
In his first film, "Rebels of the Neon God" (1992), Mr. Lee plays a bored student who flirts with delinquency, as his taxi driver father looks on impassively and his skinny, agitated mother consults spiritualists about her son's increasing distraction. The three share an apartment but inhabit separate spheres.
"Living in Taiwan encourages a certain isolation," said Chen Shiang-chyi, who appears in "What Time Is It There?" and "The River." "The island itself is so small and isolated."
"Vive l'Amour" (1994) is set in one of Taipei's many vacant luxury condominiums, remnants of an economic boom that quickly faded. Mr. Lee plays a lonely door-to-door salesman of niches in a crematorium, who secretly squats in the apartment. Yang Ku-mei (star of "The Hole") is a real estate agent showing the unit. At night, she sometimes has sex there with an itinerant street vendor whom she picked up in a shopping mall. Between her huge, unsaleable properties and the tiny, final resting places offered by Mr. Lee's character, the city seems to provide no space for a living existence.
The pick-up scene is filmed in one exquisite, silent, long take, where the two strangers communicate desire through subtle but unmistakable signals. A similar scene occurs in "The River" (1996), which resurrects the family from "Rebels of the Neon God," though this time it's the father who takes the bait of a young gay hustler, while his wife carries on a listless affair with a man who sells pornographic videos. One day their son accompanies an acquaintance to a film set, where the director asks him to stand in for a floating dummy that appears too fake. He takes a dip in the polluted river and awakens the next morning with neck pain that gradually increases until his entire body is wracked with it.
An exacting, physical sense of comedy accompanies the horror of these skewed relations. Yet the film's most striking image is a poignant one. When the son's twisted neck causes him to fall off his motorbike, the father sits behind him, holding his head, like a ghost or the guiding hand of tradition, allowing him to steer straight in a world awry.
"What Time Is It There?" which shared the technical prize at Cannes for its art direction and cinematography, is Mr. Tsai's most explicit homage to the golden age of art house cinema, incorporating clips from Truffaut's classic "The 400 Blows" into a story split between Taipei and Paris, and a meditation on the time zones we inhabit when we travel, look at films or mourn someone.
"A lot of people associate me with the 60's, and with the kinds of films that were made then," Mr. Tsai admitted with a laugh. "In fact, I'm totally anti-modern. I feel like I was born in the wrong era. But a lot of other people feel the same way. So I guess that's why I still have a few admirers."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lu Hsiao-ling and Lee Kang-sheng as a mother and son in the 1977 film "The River," directed by Tsai Ming-liang, far left. (Film Society of Lincoln Center); (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); POETRY (84%); MILLENNIUM (78%); RESTAURANTS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); FAST FOOD (66%); IMMIGRATION (65%); CITIES (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); CITY LIFE (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); THEATER (53%); RETAILERS (50%) MOTION PICTURES; CANNES INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL 

PERSON: CAMHI, LESLIE; TSAI MING-LIANG 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (94%) NEW YORK, USA (68%) TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (68%)

TITLE: WHAT TIME IS IT THERE? (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



597 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1605 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
A Team With More Smoke Than Fire

BYLINE:  By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
AN opportunity has arisen to examine the obstacles that have prevented architecture from re-establishing itself in New York as a medium of civil discourse. The occasion appeared two weeks ago with the announcement of the winners of a competition to design a nine-acre property, the so-called Con Ed site, on an East River stretch of Midtown Manhattan.
 The competition, organized earlier this year, raised public expectations that New York was finally poised to embrace architecture, as many other cities have, as a means of reckoning with the challenges of a changing world. The outcome -- the choice of two long-established New York firms to create a master plan for the site -- fell far short of those expectations. 
 It is possible, even imperative, to retrieve something of value from this disappointment. It's too big a deal to pass by. Not just because the site is important, but because the competition has affirmed the disbelief that serious architecture is a viable option for New York. And it did so at a time when that disbelief was beginning to dissolve. 
The competition epitomizes what is sometimes called the marginalization of architecture -- the reduction of this art form to the superficial decoration of plans already determined by political and economic factors. Beyond that, the competition embodies a value structure that has distorted the meaning of architecture in New York for more than a generation.
It will take more than one article to trace the elements of that value structure and the links among them. Virtually all of them, however, were present in the Con Ed competition. The developers hope to have their master plan completed sometime this fall. I have my own master plan for the months ahead. I do not expect to affect the outcome of the competition, much less to liquidate the status quo. My plan is more manageable. I want to try out some techniques for describing projects like this on the level of ideas.
The Con Ed site consists of four parcels south of the United Nations, between 35th and 41st Streets, stretching from First Avenue to the East River. The property, purchased from Consolidated Edison for $680 million, includes a century-old steam generating plant, which the developers plan to demolish. They envision a mixed-use project, largely dominated by tall residential buildings, along with office and retail space, parks and other public areas. The developers are FBS East River Associates, a partnership between Fisher Brothers and Sheldon H. Solow.
The competition was led by Bill Lacy, president of the State University of New York at Purchase and director of the Pritzker Architecture Prize.
The five competing teams ranged aesthetically from the commercial firm HOK, based in St. Louis, to the New York architect Peter Eisenman. Three of the competing architects were Pritzker Prize winners: Richard Meier, Christian de Portzamparc and Rem Koolhaas. Hugh Hardy, a stalwart civic leader and the world's leading restoration architect, was part of the team that included Eisenman and Meier. Toyo Ito, from Japan, the landscape architect Julie Bargmann, of Virginia, and the Cambridge firm Machado & Silvetti also brightened the roster. Jorge Machado is a member of the Pritzker Prize jury.
This was intended to be a competition of ideas, rather than fully worked-out designs. The developers, who served as the competition's jurors, reserved the right to accept or reject any of the ideas proposed, or to start over from scratch. The teams signed agreements to this effect and were awarded $100,000 each to develop their proposals.
On June 9, the results of the competition were announced. None of the teams had been chosen as originally composed. Instead, a new team would be formed, led by members of two of the competing groups: Henry Cobb, of Pei Cobb Freed, and Marilyn Jordan Taylor, of Skidmore Owings & Merrill. Machado & Silvetti was listed as a consultant, along with the Olin Partnership, Philadelphia-based landscape designers. The news release announcing the outcome was headlined in part, "Global Search Yields Dream Team."
Oh dear, oh dear. What had happened to the architects? To Koolhaas, Ito, Eisenman, Meier, Portzamparc and Bargmann? To those Pritzker Prize luminaries? Those blazing talents? Those figures who had given this event whatever luster it could claim? Is it possible that the winning team could be called a "Dream Team" precisely because none of them were on it? Because architecture is in truth a developer's worst nightmare?
What can one say, at this point, about the principal firms in the winning team? In terms of vision, both firms have been coasting for some years. Pei Cobb Freed still basks in the aura of its founding partner, I. M. Pei, one of the world's greatest living architects. James Ingo Freed designed one of the most important buildings of the past decade, the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington. Henry Cobb's contribution to American architecture is largely confined to the 1970's, when he developed a cool, minimalist formal vocabulary for projects like Boston's Hancock Tower.
Skidmore Owings & Merrill has always seen itself as a purveyor of top-value design services for corporate America. In the 1950's and 60's, with a series of landmark buildings by Gordon Bunshaft, the firm provided these services with distinction. More recently, under the direction of David Childs, the firm has specialized in a denatured Art Deco style with vague pretensions to classical gravitas.
Both firms now specialize in what, to paraphrase Virginia Woolf, one might call the architecture of $19.99. Now, $19.99 is not a large sum, but neither is it a small sum: "It is a moderate sum, a mediocre sum. No vulgar riot of ideas tumble expensively in these architects' heads; equally, cheapness is abhorrent to them, and vulgarity anathema. One can imagine better: one can imagine worse." Per square inch of floor area, mullion, granite veneer, or however glass and cast stone buildings are sold, the price invariably works out to $19.99.
In a recent conversation, Childs expressed the hope that commissions for individual buildings might be awarded to younger New York architects of talent. He mentioned a few names. They were indeed talented. But I wasn't cheered by this prospect. What cities need now is greater understanding of the complex relationships between architecture and planning. The Con Ed project is an ideal opportunity to address that need. It will not be addressed by a plan that reduces our most talented architects to sitting on the bench. 
I regard the Con Ed competition as an act of aggression. Against architecture, certainly, but also against the terms of civil discourse. Against the idea that the qualitative values of architecture and the quantitative values of real estate represent two different realities. Against the clarity and intellectual integrity required to keep these realities distinct. 
The competition has drawn a line in the sand. On one side is the culture of ideas, an environment where serious architecture can occur. On the other side is a culture of expediency, where words have no meaning, and architecture is nothing more than a word. The competition would be less disturbing had the developers described it as a search for "people we feel comfortable doing business with." But by introducing the concept of "ideas" they made themselves accountable for producing some.
Here's the most agonizing aspect of this episode. In the public mind, architecture is no longer marginalized. This represents a remarkable shift. In the late 1980's, the apogee of the prematurely named post-Modern movement, architecture was scarcely worth getting out of bed for. Who wanted to see yet one more cheap remake of some great Art Deco skyscraper? In recent years, architecture has surged back to the center of the cultural arena. Thanks to work by Eisenman, Meier, Gehry, Koolhaas, Libeskind, Mayne, Nouvel, Diller and Scofidio and many others, public interest in this art form has never been more intense.
One assumes that the developers are aware of this. Even if they staged the competition only to gain government concessions by demonstrating their interest in quality design, at least they must know that quality design is valued highly enough to merit such concessions. (One assumes that similar reasoning led them to break news of the competition through a cultural rather than a real estate reporter.) If the developers have nothing substantial to contribute to the cultural life of the city, why don't they stand aside and let architecture take its course?
William Morrish, former head of the Design Center for American Urban Landscape at the University of Minnesota, has long spoken of the need to go "further upstream" in describing architectural objects. It is not enough, Morrish insists, to confine our attention to the description and appraisal of the models and drawings that are typically presented to journalists like canapes on a tray. We have to trace the genealogy of these objects to their sources, in politics, sociology, commerce, psychology, technology and other fields of information.
I do not like reducing architecture to a mere expression of social and economic forces. I prefer to report on work that reckons creatively with the conditions of modern life. In the case of the Con Ed competition, no such response has materialized, so this in itself becomes a cause for interpretation. The Dream Team is only the latest manifestation of an ensconced value structure that has made New York an architectural void. Ready or not, that structure is now being beckoned for its close-up.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Looking north from the East River, a plan submitted to a design competition for a midtown Con Edison site showing, from the left, residential towers by Richard Meier and Peter Eisenman, with models of the United Nations and two other towers beyond. (Jock Pottle/Esto Photographics)(pg. 31); An aerial view of the nine-acre Con Edison site on First Avenue between 35th and 41st Streets that was the area of a design competition. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ARCHITECTURE 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) PEI COBB FREED & PARTNERS; SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL 

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



598 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
Carving a Pop Niche in Japan's Classical Tradition

BYLINE:  By HOLLAND COTTER 

 BODY:
TAKASHI MURAKAMI is a hot item on the international circuit. He's here; he's there; he's everywhere, surrounded by a flying wedge of assistants, turning out immaculately polished Pop-style product, from cartoonlike paintings to dolls and T-shirts. Psychedelic, cute, sexy, creepy, his work is part of how "new" is spelled in art at the moment.
 But Mr. Murakami is no infant phenomenon. He's 38. He's hip to history. He knows a lot about recent American art; the examples of Andy Warhol and Jeff Koons have shaped his career. He wrote a doctoral dissertation on the conservative, modern, Western-inflected Japanese painting style known as nihonga, which he has also practiced. 
 And in the group show "Superflat," which he organized in Tokyo last year (it recently appeared at the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art), he shrewdly mixed his own work with that of some of his contemporaries and inserted their collective neo-Pop style into the classical lineage of Japanese art. 
He proposed that as a group their style exemplifies a distinctive Japanese aesthetic, one that collapses distinctions between high and low and formally favors line over volume, surface over depth, ornament over realism. This art of flatness, he argued, follows a direct line from centuries-old scrolls and screens to his own media-saturated work.
This month at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, which has the most comprehensive collection of Japanese art outside of Japan itself, he is exploring this idea in a broad historical context. The museum is presenting a solo show of his work, on view through Sept. 3, pointedly titled "Made in Japan," and incorporating within it paintings by the 18th-century artist Soga Shohaku, whom Mr. Murakami regards as a neo-Pop pioneer.
Simultaneously, the presence of another show at the museum, "Japan at the Dawn of the Modern Age: Meiji Prints From the Jean S. and Frederic A. Sharf Collection," suggests a link between Mr. Murakami's art and narrative woodblock prints from the reign of the emperor Meiji (1868-1912) when Japan sailed into the modern age, and Japanese and Western culture intermeshed.
That fusion was replayed in Mr. Murakami's life. Born in Tokyo at the start of the postwar economic boom, he grew up with American rock music, films and advertising -- his father worked at a United States naval base -- as well with a Japanese pop culture centered on the printed cartoons called manga and the animations that derived from them, called anime.
In the 1980's, he enrolled at Tokyo University of Arts and Music, where he studied nihonga, a style invented or identified in part by the American scholar and collector Ernest Fenollosa (1853-1908), who was the first curator of Japanese art at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.
Nihonga still has some cachet in Japan; the imperial family has always been partial to it. But Mr. Murakami left it behind in the 1990's when, after seeing a show of Jeff Koons's erotic sculptures in New York, he turned his attention to manga and anime.
Both are ubiquitous in Japan; they've inspired a lucrative commercial industry and a fetishistically devoted following. They range in subject from religion and sports to science fiction and erotica. Their stylistic formula includes clearly outlined forms, toothsome colors and blankly smiling images of prepubescent innocence, sometimes laced with undercurrents of sex and violence.
At their most inventive, they're like Disney on amphetamines: addictively pleasurable and weirdly, unpredictably perverse. The combination has proved irresistible to a subculture of young males known as otaku or geeks, Trekkie-style cultists who inhabit a hermetic manga-anime universe. At the same time, the generic cartoon sensibility has saturated mainstream advertising. It's part of everyday Japanese life, and has a global reach.
Cartoon culture is certainly the main ingredient in Mr. Murakami's work. But it is the subtle emphasis on classical influences that gives the Boston show, organized by Cheryl Brutvan, the museum's curator of contemporary art, its interest.
Once you start looking, the mix is everywhere. The painting titled "Cosmos" imitates the format of a Rinpa-school floral screen. But it is done in five panels rather than the standard four; its surface is covered in silver acrylic paint rather than applied gold leaf, and its flowers have grinning Happy Faces.
Two large paintings, one titled "Milk," the other "Cream," appear to be abstract: in each, a thick, faceted, liquid-looking line arcs across a monochrome ground. The lines suggest calligraphy and spattered fluid. (Mr. Murakami gives them explicit sexual meanings elsewhere.) They are actually adapted from the image of a cosmic eruption in 1979 animation by the manga artist Yoshinori Kanada. And he lifted his own version from a print by Katsushika Hokusai (1761-1849), the artist who coined the term manga in the first place.
Much of the rest of the work in the show is figurative and focuses on the infantile, mouselike creature named Mr. Dob, who has become Mr. Murakami's logo, and by a population of mushrooms covered with wide-open, triple-lashed eyes. They all meet the manga cuteness quotient, then turn strange. The mushrooms suggest phalluses, bad trips and atom-bomb clouds. Mr. Dob morphs into a piranhalike creature with razor-sharp teeth and staring eyes. (New York commuters will be familiar with Mr. Dob from the sampling of Mr. Murakami's work temporarily installed at Grand Central Terminal this spring; he had a one-person show at the Marianne Boesky Gallery in Chelsea at the same time.) 
If this blend of the fanciful, the sexual and the macabre virtually defines the otaku sensibility, it is also characteristic of the work of a group of unorthodox painters -- among them Katsushika Hokusai, Ito Jakuchu, Kano Sansetsu and Soga Shohaku -- who lived during the Edo period (1615-1868).
Shohaku (1730-1781) was one of the outstanding oddballs of his day. He claimed to be a descendant of the great 15th-century painter Soga Jasoku, though he was not. A technical virtuoso, he produced devastating, Mad magazine parodies of subjects religious and secular. He was prolific, and Boston has 50 paintings by him, thanks to the acquisitive zeal of Fenollosa, a major Shohaku fan.
Two pairs of scrolls, both on Chinese themes, have been included in Mr. Murakami's show. In one, titled "The Taoist Immortals Li Tieguai and Liu Haichan," two grotesque figures, hilarious and repellent, are composed of twisting linear patterns. The immortals were thought to have discovered the secret of longevity, but it doesn't make a pretty picture: Li Tieguai appears to be senile, and Liu Haichan's flesh seems to be melting from his bones.
In the other pair of scrolls, "Dragon and Tiger," the figures are similarly stylized, with the dragon's form dissolving into a single, arching sweep of brushed ink as abstract and propulsive as Mr. Kanada's explosions. In both sets of scrolls, elevated themes and low-comedy effects merge in the synthetic brilliance that was an Edo innovation and that Mr. Murakami sees as an otaku sensibility in the bud.
More Edo work is on display in the museum's Asian galleries, where Mr. Murakami's show was installed for the first two weeks of its run. And another, more recent link in a neo-Pop lineage might be detected in the exhibition of ukiyo-e woodblock prints from the Meiji era (1868-1911), organized by Anne Nishimura Morse, curator of Japanese art, and running through July 15.
Influenced by European news illustrations, one group of prints shows Japan as a vision of mock-Tudor buildings and women in bustles, with planes of color and perspectival vistas in woozy collision. Even more surreal are the "documentary" scenes of the Sino-Japanese and Russo-Japanese wars. Steam-powered battleships sink under Hokusai waves; dead bodies are rendered with photographic precision; searchlight beams pierce the night as if emanating from spaceships. It all has the high-key drama and graphic audacity of manga at its best.
The fact that Boston's Japanese collection was being formed at precisely the time these prints were made adds a further dimension to an art-historical picture brought right into the present by Mr. Murakami's solo show. (He will be seen in a very different context at the Brooklyn Museum of Art this summer in the exhibition titled "My Reality: Contemporary Art and the Culture of Japanese Animation," which puts Japanese and American artists together.)
Whether Mr. Murakami's art sustains interest when considered beside his historical models in Boston is, of course, a question, but surely not one to be answered quite yet. He is, after all, still producing surprises and very much on the move. More important is seeing that he has these models, and that he has clearly paid close attention to them. Suddenly, flatness gains interesting depths.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 8, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 24 about two shows of Japanese art at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston misidentified the curator of one of the shows, "Japan at the Dawn of the Modern Age: Meiji Prints From the Jean S. and Frederic A. Sharf Collection." She is Louise Virgin, not Anne Nishimura Morse.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Takashi Murakami in front of his 1999 "Mushroom Painting" and a 1995 Mr. Dob, the artist's ubiquitous mouselike character. Mr. Murakami's work is at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. (Photographs from the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston)(pg. 31); "The Taoist Immortal Liu Haichan" by Soga Shohaku. (Museum of Fine Arts, Boston)(pg. 32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); ANIMATION (86%); POP & ROCK (77%); ART COLLECTING (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); HISTORY (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%) ART 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS (BOSTON) 

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND; MURAKAMI, TAKASHI; SHOHAKU, SOGA (1730-81); MEIJI (EMPEROR) (1868-1912) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (87%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



599 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1751 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
Too Few American Maestros? Try Making Them

BYLINE:  By JAMES R. OESTREICH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AWADAGIN PRATT is to perform here on Saturday evening on the Millennium Stage at the Kennedy Center. There would be little news in this statement if Mr. Pratt were playing piano, for he is widely known on that instrument, in concert and on records. Even the actual news, that he will be conducting the National Symphony Orchestra in Beethoven's Eighth Symphony, is less than earthshaking, for many instrumentalists are taking up the baton these days in varying states of preparedness and with varying success. In fact, Mr. Pratt, who is also a trained violinist and who won a Young Maestro Award in connection with his conducting studies at the Peabody Institute in Baltimore in 1995, has already conducted several orchestras.
 What makes this occasion noteworthy is that he and three other fledgling maestros, though far from world-class, will be taking the podium in a fine state of preparedness, as the climax of the National Conducting Institute. The institute, in its second season under the sponsorship of the Kennedy Center and the orchestra, and the directorship of Leonard Slatkin, the orchestra's music director, is that rare program that offers more than its name might promise. At a time when many on the American musical scene are lamenting the relative paucity of rising American music directors at major orchestras, the institute is geared to help train young Americans to assume just such posts. 
 Conducting, in the strictest sense -- the sheer technique of conveying meter, tempo and expression -- may be the least of it. Not that there is nothing to be learned on that count. "I found his instruction tremendously helpful to gain independence in my left hand," Mr. Pratt said of Mr. Slatkin.
But the hard lessons come elsewhere. On this subject, Robert Spano -- who, as the music director of the Brooklyn Philharmonic and, come September, the Atlanta Symphony, proves the exception to that lack of young American maestros -- likes to quote his teacher Max Rudolf, the author of the textbook "The Grammar of Conducting."
"The best way to learn conducting is by doing it," Rudolf is supposed to have said. "The second-best is by observing. The third-best is having a teacher."
The National Conducting Institute, in three isolated weeks each year, offers opportunities for all of the above, and more. It addresses the broader aspects of conducting: everyday practicalities, rehearsal techniques and psychological factors. Although these lessons, too, will require actual podium time to sink in, Mr. Slatkin, with vast experience of his own, can at least point to a few head starts and shortcuts.
But the most unusual feature of this program is a week spent basically without Mr. Slatkin, presented in partnership with the Orchestra Leadership Academy of the American Symphony Orchestra League. The participants are immersed in management, meeting intensively with orchestra administrators and league representatives. As one exercise, each participant submits a plan for an entire season of programs, which is then scrutinized from a real-world perspective. How expensive will it be, and what simple, harmless economies might be possible? How will it play at the box office? Does any particular combination of works place unreasonable demands on players?
"It does a wonderful job of preparing you to deal with a large orchestra," Kenneth Allen Woods, the music director of the Oregon East Symphony and the Grande Ronde Symphony, also in Oregon, said of that first week, in April. "But I was also overflowing with ideas of what to take back to a small orchestra, of ways of working with unusual resources." In particular, he began to explore possibilities for joint efforts with a nearby Indian reservation in a serious treatment of folk music. Mr. Woods will conduct Strauss's "Till Eulenspiegel" on Saturday.
The institute, "designed to assist talented conductors of academic, community or part-time orchestras make the transition to conducting and leading major, full-time, professional orchestras," in the words of a brochure, is a brainchild of Mr. Slatkin's.
"When I was just starting out, even with all the musical background I had, I didn't know what to say to an orchestra, what to do," Mr. Slatkin said. His parents -- Felix Slatkin, a violinist and conductor, and Eleanor Aller, a cellist -- were both members of the acclaimed Hollywood String Quartet, and their home was a constant center of musical activity.
Mr. Slatkin was speaking in a rare free moment during the second week of the institute last month. The four participants and six auditors dogged his every step. They watched him rehearse the orchestra for the conclusion of a three-week British Festival, a hectic final weekend of 18 works. Then they met with him and with several members of the orchestra in mentoring sessions to discuss the pieces to be performed this week and more general matters.
Mr. Slatkin has accumulated a quarter-century of wisdom since his days as a speechless neophyte. "If you feel uncomfortable talking to the players, talk to the personnel manager," he said now, dispensing random advice at a couple of working lunches. "Everything has to run through the personnel manager, the one person who operates between management and the orchestra."
He veered in a new direction: "Whenever possible, try to get to where you're conducting the night before. This is for your own well-being and contractual safety. In fact, the New York Philharmonic now has it in my contract."
Transportation delays, he went on to explain, had caused him to miss the opening piece on a program in two consecutive appearances with the Philharmonic. In one case, grounded in Washington, he took a bus to Philadelphia and, after further complications, a taxi to New York. "Unfortunately," he added, "I can tell you that a cab from Philadelphia to New York costs $275."
He raised other musical and practical issues in scattershot fashion:
*"The art of collaborating in concertos is the most important thing a conductor has to do, because you have to learn to listen."
*"With a reduced orchestra, I do at least one rehearsal with one extra player on a part, in case anyone gets sick."
*"The more you can show in a read-through with body language, the more respect you'll get."
*"I don't know any soloist who ever thinks the orchestra is quiet enough."
THEN it was on to the assigned works. Martin Hackleman, the principal horn player, discussed the opening horn solos in "Till Eulenspiegel," allowing the maestro to eat.
"It's nice not to get pointed at," Mr. Hackleman said, arguing for a certain freedom of interpretation. "But I don't want the conductor to ignore me, either." He used the evocative term "vulnerable player" for a soloist in such an exposed circumstance.
Another player, Alice Weinreb, a flutist, was crucial throughout the discussion of Ravel's "Daphnis et Chloe" Suite No. 2. But Mr. Slatkin set the tone. "I would start the piece without a stick," he said. "It sends the wrong message. You convey sound with gesture, and here the gesture dictates the whole mood of the piece."
The Ravel, it turns out, will be conducted on Saturday by Eugene Castillo, though no one (except, perhaps, Mr. Slatkin) knew that at the time. Mr. Castillo is the music director of the Camellia Symphony Orchestra in Sacramento and a former staff conductor of the San Francisco Ballet.
"There is nothing quite like this program for someone like me," Mr. Castillo said. "Nobody tells you how to talk to the press, the community, the orchestra. Here it's an information overload."
Comparable institutes are the venerable conducting program at the Tanglewood Music Center in Massachusetts, now directed by Mr. Spano, and the American Academy of Conducting at the Aspen Music Festival in Colorado, also in its second year, directed by David Zinman, who was long the music director of the Baltimore Symphony. Although both extend over longer terms, neither offers a comparable exposure to the overall workings of an orchestra or the opportunity to conduct a professional orchestra. At Tanglewood, the participants work not with the resident Boston Symphony but with the Music Center Orchestra, made up of students. At Aspen, an orchestra of 55 is constituted for the purpose, including the 24 participants themselves.
"There is nothing like this, working with an orchestra of this caliber," said Paul Haas, who will conduct Copland's "Salon Mexico" on Saturday. Mr. Haas is the pops conductor of the Corpus Christi Symphony and an assistant conductor of the Haddonfield Symphony in New Jersey and the National Repertory Orchestra.
On this point, all the participants this year agree. "The most important aspect of the institute is the performance experience," Mr. Woods said. "You're not just being thrown to the wolves or given a junk assignment, the two things that typically happen to young conductors. Here the players have made an investment in preparing us, and they'll try to make it work."
An opportunity to conduct the orchestra is extended even to the auditors, also young conductors who, like the participants, pay tuition. Throughout, they play a more active role in the institute than their title might imply. They take part in discussions. They do not get to rehearse and perform publicly, but they conduct a reading of a movement: this year, from Dvorak's Seventh Symphony or Brahms's First. Even this is a valuable experience, a chance to test Mr. Slatkin's maxim that "you should be able to show almost everything you're trying to get through gestures."
Mr. Pratt, the pianist, was an auditor last year. And in response to a question about the progress of women through the program, Mr. Slatkin suggested that one of the current auditors could well return next year as the first female participant.
As for the participants last year, one of them, Jason Weinberger, who recently earned his master's degree from the Peabody Institute, served as a cover conductor for the National Symphony a number of times last season, including that week of the British Festival.
"The scope of the program here is totally unique, showing how a music director works and what he does," Mr. Weinberger said. "That may be even more valuable than doing the performance. I learned more here than I learned in graduate school."
Robert C. Jones, the orchestra's president, hopes that Mr. Weinberger is not the only loyal alumnus. "We have to continue to maintain the people we've developed," he said. "We encourage them to think of the orchestra as an alma mater."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leonard Slatkin, left, the director of the National Conducting Institute in Washington, in discussion with Awadagin Pratt, a noted pianist and one of the participants. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (73%); TEXTBOOKS (73%) MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (91%) NATIONAL CONDUCTING INSTITUTE;; NATIONAL SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 

PERSON: OESTREICH, JAMES R; SLATKIN, LEONARD; PRATT, AWADAGIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



600 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: In St. Louis, Office Buildings Are Becoming Lofts 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT SHAROFF 

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS 

 BODY:
THE renovation of a dozen or so former office buildings into residential lofts here is raising hopes that Washington Avenue, formerly the home of the city's premier footwear and apparel manufacturing companies, will provide St. Louis with something it has lacked for most of its history -- a strong downtown residential base.
 "Downtown St. Louis has always been pretty successful as a central business district," said Craig Heller, managing partner of Loftworks, a local developer with a number of properties in the area. "It wasn't until 10 to 15 years ago that the garment district buildings started to empty out and prices dropped to the point where residential was feasible." 
 "We have a long way to go," said Zachary Boyers, vice president of Firstar Bank's Community Development Corporation, which has invested about $97 million in downtown residential projects in the last three years. "But I don't think St. Louis is any different than other major cities that have undergone revitalization in recent years. If we create a great neighborhood with great housing, people will want to live there." 
Despite several new office towers, downtown St. Louis has largely missed out on the wave of new development that has transformed the skylines of many cities in the last decade. The overall office vacancy rate for downtown is 15 percent, with most of that space concentrated in the kind of older buildings now being renovated. Also, apparel and footwear have largely ceased to play a major role in the city's economy.
As recently as two years ago, office buildings along Washington Avenue could be acquired for $2 per square foot and sometimes for considerably less. (The deal of the decade happened in 1993 when Robert Cassilly, the founder of City Museum, a new children's museum in the former International Shoe Company headquarters at 1509 Washington, paid just 69 cents a foot for the entire two building, 760,000-square-foot facility.) Today, prices range from $6 a square foot to $20.
So far, about 280 lofts have been built and another 1,800 units are either planned or are under construction. The projects tend to be small in scale, with most having fewer than 50 units although one project has almost 100 units. 
The developers are a diverse assortment, ranging from small local companies like Loftworks and McGowan Brothers to large national companies like the St. Louis-based Gundaker Commercial Group and the New Orleans-based Historic Restoration Inc. 
The development centers on one of the most historic commercial streets in St. Louis. According to the AIA Guide to St. Louis, "early 20th century St. Louis is better preserved along Washington Avenue than in any other downtown section." It is one of the few streets in St. Louis where one experiences the canyon effect so common in cities like New York and Chicago. The buildings, many of which are national landmarks, are massive and heavily ornamented. 
"They're perfect for loft development," said Kevin McGowan, president of McGowan Brothers, which recently completed a 13-unit project at 1221 Washington Avenue. The company owns more than a dozen other properties in the area and has plans to develop another 250 units over the next two years. "Most of them are warehouses with very open layouts, so there's very little interior demolition work to be done. All a developer has to do is come in and install new infrastructure."
THE city is also about to begin a $17.5 million streetscape renovation plan for Washington that will, among other things, double the width of the sidewalks to 18 feet for a six-block stretch between Tucker and 18th Streets and install new streetlights and planters.
"The idea is to put in some significant public infrastructure to bolster the private investment that has already taken place along the street," said Thomas Reeves, executive director of Downtown Now, a private nonprofit advocacy group.
Until now, developers have mainly built rental apartments, since only rental projects are eligible to receive federal historic tax credits. These credits, combined with state historic tax credits, are seen as key financing elements.
"They allow developers to recoup up to 45 percent of their post-purchase development costs," said Kevin Montgomery Smith, residential marketing manager of the Downtown St. Louis Partnership, a private advocacy group for downtown development. "Without them, we wouldn't be seeing this level of activity."
But the runaway success of a recent condominium project has tilted the balance toward for-sale projects. The project in question is 10th Street Lofts, which is just off Washington Avenue in an old brick warehouse building.
The developer of 10th Street is Craig Heller, who left his job as president of Pyramid Construction Inc., another local developer, to focus on downtown loft development.
"I wanted to build a neighborhood, and downtown seemed like an area with a lot of potential," he said. "There's great building stock and great incentives. The only question was the market. Even in the city's heyday in the 1950's, there weren't many people living downtown. We didn't know how people would respond."
Mr. Heller paid $1.70 a square foot for the 150,000-square-foot building, which was constructed as an annex to the nearby Merchandise Mart Building in 1913, and carved out 31 lofts ranging in price from $120,000 to $290,000 and in size from roughly 1,500 to 4,000 square feet. 
The results were impressive. "We had an open house in September of 1999, and 2,000 people showed up," said Judith Korn, a saleswoman with Re/Max Properties West in suburban Chesterfield, the brokerage that handled the sales. "We sold 15 units in one day and the rest within six weeks."
One buyer was Margaret Newman, a writer and video producer who was moving to St. Louis from Chicago. "I saw a living space I could only dream about in Chicago," she said of her 4,000-square-foot loft. "The opportunity to get in on something like this is gone in most cities."
The largest condominium project to date is the Terra Cotta Lofts, a project in the General American Life Insurance Building a block south of Washington at 1501 Locust Street. The developers are the Orchard Investment Company of Chicago and Joseph Freed & Associates of Wheeling, Ill. The project is costing about $20 million, of which $4.5 million went for the 200,000-square-foot building plus several adjacent properties.
THE 98 units in the building range in size from 1,000 to 2,000 square feet and are going for $120,000 to $275,000. According to Jay Case, a principal with Orchard Investment, about 25 units have been sold and the first residents will move in early next year.
"Washington Avenue is a great urban streetscape," he says. "It makes sense for the city to concentrate its energies here."
Another project that is raising the residential profile of the street is the Merchandise Mart Building, which occupies a block between 10th and 11th Streets. The building, which dates from 1889, was recently acquired by Historic Restoration Inc. of New Orleans, which plans to spend $40 million to convert the structure into 219 rental apartments.
The Mart is Historic Restoration's second project on Washington Avenue. The first is a large commercial venture, the $250 million renovation of the long-vacant Statler and Lennox Hotels, which it is doing in partnership with the Kimberly-Clark Corporation, based in Irving, Tex. The two hotels are across the street from each other at 8th Street at the eastern end of the area being redeveloped. When finished, both will carry the Marriott Renaissance nameplate and will be convenient to the nearby America's Center, St. Louis's convention center. 
"The hotels are an economic engine to provide employment opportunities downtown and spur housing development," said Ronald Silverman, vice president and regional manager of Historic Restoration Inc. "We have a strong commitment to restoring neighborhoods, and Washington Avenue at one time was a fabulous street. We hope to do a number of projects here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Terra Cotta Lofts, left, consists of 98 units in the General American Life Building, and the building at 1221 Washington Avenue, with the awnings, has 13 units. Map of St. Louis, Missouri, highlighting Terra Cotta Lofts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); FOOTWEAR (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CITIES (78%); FOOTWEAR MFG (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); APPAREL MFG (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%) HOUSING; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

COMPANY: HISTORIC RESTORATION INC (61%); U S BANCORP (56%)

TICKER: USB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: SHAROFF, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) ST LOUIS (MO)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 

 
