

201 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 4726 words

HEADLINE: How To Fight City Hall

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
SO you voted for the Mayor, the rasp in his voice has almost become endearing and you are looking forward to four more years of feeling safe when you walk the dog at night. Then you find out that the city wants to put an off ramp from the Gowanus Expressway in your neighborhood, and suddenly you are sticking voodoo pins in your Giuliani doll. That makes you feel better, but it is not going to stop the ramp. You cannot afford to hire a lobbying firm of a mayoral ally like Raymond B. Harding, so what is a community to do?
In the past, taking to the streets might have been the first option. Not anymore. Ask civic activists around New York how to fight City Hall, and they react as if you asked when they last beat their wives. 
 "In the old days, we had a fight City Hall approach," interrupts Michael Clark of the Citizens Committee of New York City, in a typical reaction, "but now we encourage a collaborative approach."
Some groups still protest, of course, sometimes with success, but most prefer caution and sophistication to confrontation. Dozens of interviews with community leaders and activists and with elected and appointed officials suggest that while there are no hard and fast rules for getting things done, the most effective community groups operate like businesses these days. They have strategic plans and agendas; they network and negotiate; they issue news releases.
And they are aware that while many traditional methods for moving city government apply, the alchemy of pressure is slowly changing as a result of the confluence of City Charter revisions, the relationship between a Republican Mayor and Democratic political establishment and the governing style and personality of Mayor Giuliani. Term limits for elected officials may throw yet another wrench into the wheels.
Most of the work in the city still gets done, and many of the decisions are made, by middle managers who stay rooted through mayor after mayor.
"They're the people who run this town; commissioners don't run this town," says Rabbi Jacob Z. Goldstein, who has been chairman of Community Board 9 in Crown Heights for 18 years. Those middle managers respond less to ideology than to personal chemistry (or maybe their mood that day). They tend to be more responsive to community boards or elected officials than they are to the average citizen, so at least initially most communities work through such intermediaries.
But when the bureaucracy is intransigent, or when an issue is large or charged, or requires a policy decision, the case becomes more political: it moves up toward the commissioner, the Mayor's staff, the Mayor. At that point, if a battle is in sight, communities need a plan, and they need a thumb in the wind to know which way political winds are blowing.
The first thing to realize is that this administration did not emerge from the political apparatus of this city and that it is not especially enamored of that apparatus. Elected officials, from borough presidents to state assemblymen to City Council members, still have more access to City Hall than do the people they represent. The clever, the motivated and the leveraged still get things done. But the occasionally fractious relationship between largely Democratic incumbents and a Republican Mayor has made relying on those incumbents less dependable. Around town, there are some frustrated elected officials.
"They play games, and try to channel all contact between elected officials and city agencies through them," Kenneth K. Fisher, a Democratic Councilman from Brooklyn, said of members of the Mayor's office. Then, he said, if they do not like something an elected official does, they "tell people in agencies not to return phone calls or give meetings."
Some of that, of course, is politics as usual. When the Mayor needs a vote, relations are restored. But for community groups, the lesson is clear: pay attention to those who have a good working relationship with the executive branch at any given time.
The Mayor has demonstrated little enthusiasm for community boards, starting when he slashed their budgets. (Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone has managed to get some of the money restored.) "The first-term Giuliani administration has not been very good at consulting with community boards," said Alvin Berk, the chairman of Community Board 14 in Brooklyn. The Mayor also eliminated the liaisons that Mayor Dinkins's administration used to reach out to various ethnic groups, and has substantially lowered the profile of the Community Assistance Unit.
"The Mayor stays in touch by being out there," says Jack Deacey, a mayoral spokesman. About the community boards, Mr. Deacey said: "Are some community boards unhappy with the administration? Probably. But this administration is out in the neighborhoods in every borough."
Given these changes, and the uncertainties they have wrought, many communities have started organizing and educating themselves to work directly with city agencies or pressure city officials. There has been an explosion in the number of civic associations, particularly in Manhattan and Queens, that are becoming increasingly savvy at pressuring the city.
Other changes in the city's political workings have been institutional. Under the City Charter revision, borough presidents lost much of their real power (it has mostly accrued to the Mayor), while the City Council got two new powers: land use and budget. Land use issues, which were previously ruled on by the seven-member Board of Estimate, now require reckoning with 51 Council members. Getting access to capital budget funds is a question of convincing a committed and effective Council member.
While many community leaders complain about City Hall, citing the difficulty of getting information or getting access to the Mayor's tight inner circle (particularly after Deputy Mayor Fran Reiter, a generally respected community liaison, left to run the re-election campaign), plenty have succeeded in challenging or working with this administration.
What's the secret? Some of those who have succeeded are from Mayor Giuliani's political milieu. Perhaps they are represented by Republican Council members, or live in mayoral strongholds like southwestern Brooklyn. Or they are not from Ruth Messinger's stronghold. Others agitate on issues dear to the Mayor's heart, or have learned to frame their cause that way.
"It helps tremendously if you have an issue the Mayor cares about," said Adam Silvera, who has been fighting the rise in the number of bars on Avenue A on the Lower East Side, a quality-of-life issue.
Others have something the Mayor wants, or find the person who has enough influence to make their case. Having greater economic clout and education helps, not surprisingly. Such communities have money in the bank, lawyers on the block, urban planners around the corner -- all a big help if they are looking for an agency official to call or planning to go to court.
But such resources are not necessary. The great common denominator for communities that have been successful is persistence. In any effort to move City Hall, there are usually a few people who sweat profusely for the benefit of the many. Pester people enough, they say, and you will usually get what you want, if only because they want to be rid of you.
Here, then, are a few other rules for challenging, pressuring, prodding, cajoling, and, yes, fighting City Hall:
 
1. Think Local, but Look Global
The citizen determined to do something for a neighborhood or community faces a barrage of charges from citywide officials: parochialism, selfishness, Nimbyism, interest-group politics. So the best have learned to broaden, to find how their issue resonates elsewhere in the city.
For 10 years, Queens activists have been unsuccessfully trying to get the city to tighten regulations about where such community facilities as drug rehabilitation centers and homeless shelters, which have sprouted like wild mushrooms over the last several decades, can be situated. But for the last two years, the Queens groups have begun working with counterparts in Manhattan, Staten Island and elsewhere, and the interborough alliances are making officials take notice, said Sean Walsh, the president of the Queens Civic Congress.
"They can't play one borough against the other: the snobs in Manhattan, the hicks in Queens," he said. Carol Rinzler, whose Manhattan Neighborhood Council has also taken up the issue, said, "You can see them sitting there counting up the votes in their little heads." The chair of city's Planning Commission has promised some sort of recommendation by the end of the year.
 
2. Turn Pro and Stay Neutral
For those entering the job market, a well-pressed suit and impressive resume are half the battle. In politics, too, the appearance of legitimacy -- a board, a name, an agenda -- is worth no end of credibility. Community groups that once took to the streets have cottoned to sophistication.
"Copy letters to agencies, community boards, elected officials, so they see you know what you're doing," said Fran Vella-Marrone, a renowned civic activist in Dyker Heights.
When Kathleen Goforth wanted to beautify her Park Avenue South neighborhood, she established the Park South Mall Association (total membership: three), recruited a seven-member "advisory panel," and printed up some fancy letterhead stationery. The stationery helped reel in donations small and large from local businesses. That in turn prompted her Councilman, Antonio Pagan, to get $475,000 in city funds to green and clean the area.
Part of being professional, say community groups, is staying nonpartisan. "We have no involvement with local politics unless it is directly related to parks," said Mickey Ronan, the executive director of the Roosevelt Park Community Coalition, which has helped transform a strip of the Lower East Side from a redoubt of drug dealers and prostitutes to a haven for children and residents. The coalition can't afford such involvement: it is relying on Democratic officials to help pressure city agencies controlled by a Republican Mayor. Groups that have somehow acquired a reputation as "Democratic" say they have felt the consequences at City Hall.
 
3. Plant the Seeds, Ask the City to Water
Some naive citizens believe that just because taxpayers pay city officials' salaries, those officials will spare no effort in addressing public problems brought to their attention. In fact, city officials will sometimes put more effort into avoiding a problem than solving it. The reasons not to act are infinite, with lack of money being a particular favorite and stubborn skepticism of the problem's very existence a close second. That often leaves communities with two choices: give up and grumble, or do the initial hard work themselves, leveraging volunteer (or, if they can afford it, paid) labor to force the city to respond.
The Upper East Side had a rat problem: "Enormous rats," said Betty Cooper Wallerstein, the founder of the formidable East 79th Street Neighborhood Association and a master of politely pestering city officials. Convinced that the rodents were squeezing through the holes in city waste bins to snack on the garbage inside, the association asked the sanitation department to line all the bins. The department said it lacked the manpower.
So the association found volunteers from the neighborhood (a few of whom volunteered their doormen). For eight months they changed the liners themselves, laying the bags out for the city to collect. The rats moved on (to a less organized neighborhood, no doubt), and the city, convinced of the association's argument, arranged to have workfare recipients take over the task of liner replacement.
 
4. Horse-Trade
Counting on the Mayor or his staff to give your community something because they want to is a little like counting a lottery ticket as your Christmas fund: it's possible, but risky. The best way to get city officials to do something you want is to have something they want. Political clubs and associations used to broker such deals; now communities broker for themselves, or through community boards or local elected officials.
So when the city needed a place, fast, to store sanitation trucks it had kept under the Williamsburg Bridge, Ross Graham saw the trucks headed straight for her community board, No. 4 in Chelsea-Clinton. She knew she could fight it and lose, or she could milk it like Bessie the Cow. Among the concessions: progress on the Clinton urban renewal plan, and a new office for the community board.
A sense of timing helps: After an Arab fired on a van of Jews on the Brooklyn Bridge, Mayor Giuliani wanted to bring Arabs and Jews together. Emira Habiby Browne, the founder of the Arab American Family Support Center, used his interest to secure his help in freeing up city funds that had been promised her organization but tied up in the bureaucracy.
As important as having something to give is knowing what you will give. Negotiate like a businessman: know where you will compromise, and what you want in return. Otherwise you may find yourself in the position of one of the city's most powerful neighborhood groups, the Brooklyn Heights Association. In 1984, its battle against the construction of One Pierrepont Plaza, an office tower, was running down. At a late-night meeting, the association, headed for a loss in the now-extinct Board of Estimate, was asked what it would take to get it to drop its lawsuit against the city.
"We had no list," recalls Judy Stanton, the association's executive director. "We had no knowledge of trade-offs. This old, esteemed organization had never needed them before." They did manage to get a few small concessions but not as much as if they had planned in advance. And the tower went up.
Ms. Stanton issues this warning: In the Giuliani era, if you're arguing against an economic development effort, you face a very tough battle.
 
5. Find Allies
For communities seeking something from the city, the bad news is that the mayoral election is over--no more goodies like the end of two-fare zones and the elimination of the $1.75 toll on the Cross Bay Bridge in Queens. The good news is that the gubernatorial election is just gearing up. The Mayor may be indifferent; the Governor aims to please -- a fact some community groups have already grasped. Where an issue has even the smallest nexus with the state, enlist state officials to pressure the governor.
And he's not the only one: many of those City Council members who will be ejected by term limits aren't about to give up on public life. They are dreaming of Assembly and State Senate seats. Michael Krasner, a Queens College political science professor, suggests that term limits may even enhance constituent service (if not city government): Council members have less incentive to become policy experts, and more to deliver short-term concrete results. The trick is to find someone with more power and influence at City Hall than you have.
When the city's Muslims wanted to get alternate-side parking rules suspended outside mosques on Muslim holidays, they dispatched Asghar Choudri, the unofficial mayor of Brooklyn's unofficial Little Pakistan, to see his councilman, Noach Dear, who also happened to be the chair of the council's transportation committee. Mr. Choudri made his request; Mr. Dear responded with words most civic activists only dream of hearing: "I said, 'I want to be your savior,' " Mr. Dear recalled. He sponsored legislation and got it through the council.
Sometimes it helps to venture far from home to seek help. After 10 years of fighting for a traffic light on her corner in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Elsie Richardson was ready to write a book on city inaction. Her own Councilwoman had been no help. Then, appearing before a City Council subcommittee on parks meeting on another matter, she mentioned the traffic light. It caught the interest of Thomas Duane, a Manhattan Councilman and the subcommittee e chairman; a few months later the traffic light went up, shortly after Ms. Richardson received a letter from her Borough President's office saying she would not be getting a traffic light. "A lot of our elected officials don't know what's going on," she said.
A final hint: know who is in and who is out. In right now: Assemblyman Vito J. Lopez of northern Brooklyn, Councilwoman Priscilla A. Wooten of East New York, Representative Floyd H. Flake of southeast Queens, Borough President Claire Shulman of Queens and others who broke ranks to endorse the Mayor.
 
6. Know Where the Bodies Are Buried
In government, as in life, there are go-to people and got-to-avoid people, people who give you the runaround and people who will run around for you. There are discretionary funds given to each Councilman by the Speaker, Peter F. Vallone (although voting against his budget can jeopardize those funds) , and capital budget dollars waiting to be dispensed. The trick is to know who gets things done, and how to get what's there.
There is a reason that the most effective organizations are those with former or even current government employees in their ranks: they know how the system works. Some leave government and turn that knowledge to profit as a lobbyist, but it can also be turned to a community's profit. Ross Graham spent 21 years in state government before becoming chairwoman of Community Board 4 in Manhattan. "It helped enormously," she said. "I had ideas of who to call, what questions to have. I knew many City Council members by first name."
The good news is that decades of big government must mean that there can't be a community in New York without someone with government experience.
 
7. Use the Dale Carnegie Approach
Once you know who gets things done, stick with them and cultivate the relationship (and don't go over their head unless absolutely necessary; there is no surer way to alienate an ally than to get him in trouble with his boss). Even in a city as large as New York, a surprising amount of city business gets done on the basis of personal relationships; rarely with the Mayor himself, but with his staff and with agency staff.
"I've developed very good relationships with all the people I deal with in city agencies, and I've never had a problem getting anything from them," said Rafael Orozco, a community affairs officer in Brooklyn who has been helping housing project residents get what they need from city government for years. "Learning to talk to them and becoming friends with them will do more than all the letters in the world, because it's hard to say no to a friend."
Jacob Z. Goldstein, who has been the chairman of Community Board 9 in Crown Heights for 18 years, recalls trying to get some streets repaved and being told by a transportation official -- and friend -- that his district had maxed out its asphalt allotment for the year. "Fine," Mr. Goldstein replied, "but if you have any leftover asphalt at the end of the year, give me a call." The call came: "What streets do you want done?"
 
8. Use the Power Of Shame
Few things get a politician's attention like the threat of bad publicity or the promise of good, and this Mayor (and aspiring Senator?) is no exception. Fortunately, New York's yawning news media maw demands constant feeding, from New York 1 to local and citywide papers to local television and radio.
Anyone can get press for just about anything, and the best community advocates take it to a higher level. They keep this weapon in reserve, going public only if the city is unresponsive. Sean Walsh is biding his time as he waits for the city to deal with the problem of illegal conversions of single-family dwellings. If the Mayor does not move forward with plans to enforce city regulations against the conversions, Mr. Walsh will move forward himself by contacting the press.
Savvy media users know where to go: Local papers can effectively embarrass or shame local politicians, but not necessarily the Mayor or city officials. Concerned about the condition of shelters for battered women, Joyce Shepard, the founder of the Citizens' Action Committee for Change, went undercover as one. She went to the Comptroller, who validated her findings and promised funds. A few months later, she went back. Little had changed. Soon after, Joyce Shepard was on the cover of Newsday. She says the Comptroller's office now keeps her personally informed on improvements.
 
9. Speak Softly, Don't Lose Your Big Stick
When all else fails, there are still some good, old-fashioned ways to bludgeon City Hall into listening: litigation and legislation. They are, community advocates say, tools of last resort, but tools nonetheless. When Robert Moses tore through West Tremont with the Cross-Bronx Expressway, Mr. Krasner notes, he had the benefit of unsophisticated community groups who never thought to call a lawyer. Today, he would have a lawsuit on his hands. "It is the rare community group that does not have access to some legal talent," Mr. Krasner said.
Jack Lester, an attorney who has litigated often against City Hall, said he was actually not a fan of litigation: "Ninety-nine percent of the time you want to avoid litigation. It goes on for a long time, it is expensive."
But when groups have exhausted all other avenues and there has been a clear violation of the law, there is no other choice. When the administration takes a noncommunicative tack, Mr. Lester said, that often indicates there has been a violation of some statue or regulation. "When your phone calls stop getting returned," Mr. Lester said, "you realize you must go to court."
As for legislation, it helped stop the Brooklyn Navy Yard incinerator. Councilman Noach Dear of Borough Park said this tactic is often an effective way to prod agencies into responsiveness. His constituents, for example, have been complaining about the city's policy of collecting recycling only biweekly. If the agency doesn't change to weekly pickup, Mr. Dear said, he will sponsor legislation. "What are they going to do, have the Mayor veto it?" he said.
 
10. The Last, Last Resort
If all else fails, call the Mayor's radio program: Friday from 10 A.M. to 11 A.M. on WABC, 770 AM, (800) 848-9222.
 
Working the System: Four Victories
 
THE ARMORY FIGHT
 
ACTIVIST: Simone Sindin, founder of the Armory Action Alliance.
 
THE ISSUE: In 1995, the city's Human Resources Administration suddenly announced that the 14th Street Armory, by her home, would become the site of a central workfare placement station for men all over the city. Ms. Sindin wanted "a positive community use" for the armory.
 
THE CAMPAIGN: A community meeting brought out 2,000 people. The Alliance, representing dozens of community groups, raised funds and hired Jack Lester, a lawyer known for fighting City Hall.
 
RESULTS: On the verge of going into court, the Mayor's representatives agreed to talk and hammered out an agreement that the city would only use the armory for a year and have it be closely monitored by a task force. The city kept the agreement. The state is now considering bids for the armory.
 
HER LESSONS:
1. Focus Your Fight. Some Democratic legislators were pressing to use the issue to fight Federal workfare policy. "As community people," Ms. Sindin she said, "we weren't going to fight Federal policy."
 
2. Monitor Political Dynamics. The community negotiated directly with the city, without elected officials or the community board. "We started working with incumbent legislators," she said, "but in the end, because there was a Republican Mayor and Democratic incumbents, we thought there were political processes at work and decided to go it alone."
 
3. Threaten Litigation to Force Negotiation. "I don't think any of us wanted to go to court. The whole idea was, 'Please notice us.' "
 
BATTLING A MALL
 
ACTIVIST: Fran Vella-Marrone, president of the Dyker Heights Civic Association,; vice chairwoman of the Conservative Party in Brooklyn.
 
THE ISSUE: Fighting the Brooklyn Junction megamall, an eight-block development proposed for a residential neighborhood between Eighth and 14th Avenues at 61st Street at the nexus is of Bay Ridge, Borough Park and Sunset Park.
 
THE CAMPAIGN: Under Ms. Vella-Marrone's tutelage, residents and merchants united to lobby elected officials and aspiring officials, and cultivate the interest of the local press. They formed coalitions among dozens of neighborhood groups. And Ms. Vella-Marrone helped get a meeting with Joseph B. Rose, the chairman of the City Planning Commission, through another commissioner she knew from working with the city. Through her political contacts, she helped to reach out to the Governor.
 
RESULTS: Several weeks ago, the Mayor and Governor came out in opposition to the mall.
 
HER LESSONS:
1. Broaden Your Base. "Form alliances, so it's no longer just the people across the street complaining; it's southwest Brooklyn complaining."
 
2. Know Your Arguments. "Before the meeting with Joe Rose, I said we had to get organized, have specific reasons. We broke it into issues, and different people gave facts and figures. We were professional, but he could see it was a grass-roots organization."
 
THE BURIAL GROUND
 
ACTIVIST: Mandingo Osceola Tshaka, a full-time civic gadfly in Bayside, Queens.
 
THE ISSUE: As the city was preparing to renovate the Everett A. Martins Field playground in Flushing, he discovered that more than 1,000 blacks and Indians were buried underneath. He wanted to make sure the burial ground was preserved.
 
THE CAMPAIGN: By presenting evidence gleaned from maps, death records and newspaper clips, Mr. Tshaka said, he persuaded the Parks Department to temporarily shelve plans to upgrade the park and to initiate an archeological study.
 
RESULTS: After the investigation confirmed Mr. Tshaka's suspicions, the Parks Department agreed to preserve the grave site. During the summer, Councilwoman Julia Harrison got a hefty $1 million from the capital budget to renovate the playground and restore the cemetery.
 
HIS LESSONS:
1. Keep the Heat On. Mr. Tshaka said he once spent 17 hours at One Police Plaza waiting for a public hearing to be called. "The only thing that can sit better than me is a mother hen," he says.
 
2. Follow the Money: With years of experience, Mr. Tshaka knows that the capital budget is a pot of gold. At his urging, he said, Councilman Michael Abel recently secured $1 million to fix up two Bayside schools. How did Mr. Tshaka do it? "Just picked up the phone and asked."
 
DIGGING IN HEELS
 
ACTIVIST: Yolanda Garcia, founder of Nos Quedamos ("We Stay")
 
THE ISSUE: The city was planning to raze her neighborhood in the Melrose section of the Bronx and displace the residents under an urban renewal plan.
 
THE CAMPAIGN: Ms. Garcia and others passed out flyers to spread the word about the city's plans, and then formed Nos Quedamos. A survey of the neighborhood's several thousand residents found only three who wanted to move. That fact helped enlist the support of local officials and pressure Mayor David N. Dinkins, who happened to be facing re-election.
 
RESULTS: The group forced the Dinkins administration to scrap its plan and create a new one, meeting weekly with residents for six months. She has safeguarded the plan under Mr. Giuliani, and successfully pressured the city to clean and fence vast amounts of empty land.
 
HER LESSONS:
1. Globalize the Issue. When Joseph B. Rose, the chairman of the City Planning Commission, attempted to truncate the plan's public review, Nos Quedamos enlisted the help of the Borough Presidents and City Council members who worried that his success would undermine their own powers over land use.
 
2. Do the Groundwork Yourself. When trucks wanting to dump on empty land began knocking down the fences the city had erected, the Sanitation Department said it would no longer replace them. So the community identified the dumpers, then called the sanitation police, who confiscated their trucks. The fences are back.
 
3. Persist. "Keep the argument going until you win. It's like water torture: just keep going and going and going."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yolanda Garcia. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); Mandingo Osceola Tshaka. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times); Fran Vella-Marrone. (Aaron Fineman for The New York Times); Simone Sindin. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 20)
 
Illustrations by Keith Bendis (pgs. 1, 20 & 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS CITIES (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LOBBYING (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); TERM LIMITS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); POLITICS (68%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (65%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY; SINDLIN, SIMONE; TSHAKA, MANDINGO OSCEOLA; TSHAKA, MANDINGO OSCEOLA; GARCIA, YOLANDA; VELLA-MARRONE, FRAN RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



202 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: A Matter of Degrees;
Grading Colleges Requires More Than Math

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
WHEN high-school seniors apply to colleges, they have all sorts of ways to compare quality, and some of them are quantifiable: the average SAT scores of the last entering class, for example, or the student-faculty ratio.
But how do states gauge how well their public universities and colleges are doing their job? A growing number of states have begun grading campuses by the numbers, such as graduation rates, rewarding or penalizing their budgets according to their success. The result is a lot of unhappy college presidents and professors. 
 Before a public university can be graded fairly, critics of the new systems say, states must first define the mission of all of its campuses and ask whether the ways of measuring success make sense. When public systems range from elite research universities to community colleges, numbers like graduation rates can reflect several factors besides the quality of instruction, starting with the quality of their students.
"Higher-education assessment is kind of silly," said Lawrence Rudner, an adjunct associate professor of education at Catholic University in Washington, and director of the national Clearinghouse on Assessment and Evaluation. "You're treating the universities as if they were a factory making hammers, as if the same raw ingredients are going into the hammers. But that's not the way universities work."
Graduation rates might seem like a logical way to gauge how well a college is doing. If most students graduate in four or five years, it must be doing a good job. If only a fraction of its students graduate in that time, it must be doing a poor job.
Only last month, the trustees of the City University of New York adopted graduation rates as one factor they will weigh in allocating new instructors among its campuses, giving more to those with higher rates.
As more states use what are known as performance measurement systems to guide public spending for higher education, graduation rates are, in fact, the most widely used measure. But as some states are discovering, grading colleges is a complex business that opens a Pandora's box of issues. While the desire to hold public institutions accountable is reasonable, some experts who have studied these systems say, the measures employed have been anything but. Often, they say, grading campuses in pursuit of improving "quality" and "efficiency" can actually backfire.
Graduation rates, for example, can easily be improved by making courses easier and encouraging teachers to give higher grades.
 
Open Admissions
Colleges can also improve graduation rates by raising admission standards, but in many cases, as in that of City University, public systems have a mission of providing access to as many students as possible, guaranteeing admission to at least a community college to anyone with a high-school degree.
Also, for many campuses with open admissions, low graduation rates reflect the economic disadvantages of their students, many of whom drop out or take longer to graduate because they have to work.
Just looking at a college's graduation rate -- or other measures like test scores, faculty salaries or student satisfaction -- without thinking about how they are connected to other issues won't necessarily improve education, educators say.
"If you are going to tie money to results, you have to think about the games that are going to be played back at the university," said Peter T. Ewell, a senior associate at the National Center for Higher Education Management Systems in Boulder, Colo. "Legislators often want a quick fix and don't realize how intricate it can turn out to be."
Advocates say it is about time that someone tried to introduce rigor into higher education policy. "It is not ideology or politics, it is just a rational approach," said Joseph Burke, director of the public higher education program at the Rockefeller Institute in Albany, who tried to start performance measures at the State University of New York when he was provost. In states that are trying performance measures, he said, "at least it has produced more attention to the goals and priorities they should have been talking about before."
For 20 years, Tennessee stood as a lonely experiment in measuring its colleges' performance, reserving about 5 percent of its higher-education budget to reward its most efficient and effective campuses.
 
More Students, More Money
Like other states since, Tennessee wanted an alternative to basing college budgets on the size of their enrollments. But the state quickly encountered problems in the measures it was using and in the results it was getting, said Trudy W. Banta, a former member of Tennessee's higher-education staff who now is vice chancellor for planning and institutional improvement at Indiana University-Purdue University in Indianapolis.
One set of problems arose, she said, when Tennessee decided to use standardized tests to measure how much its students had learned after four years of college. Because different tests had to be compared in the first years, researchers later found that measures from that period were way off.
The state also found that equity and diversity were being hurt in the drive for better quality, as campuses like Tennessee State University, a historically black college, suffered in statistical comparisons. The state gradually developed other measures to introduce more balance.
 
Encouraging Innovation
"They've gotten better," said Professor Banta, who edits a newsletter on performance assessment.
Missouri is a newcomer to measuring performance, but it is drawing attention for its careful approach. The state still uses a traditional budgeting system to determine most higher-education financing, but in 1993, it added incentives to encourage innovation.
So far less than 5 percent of Missouri's higher-education budget is distributed as incentives, but Robert Stein, an assistant commissioner at the Missouri Coordinating Board for Higher Education, said the approach has had a ripple effect.
"Not everything is as quantifiable as we would like, but it has changed the nature of the conversation," he said. "It has re-energized the faculty into feeling they can make a difference and that teaching and learning are important issues in the state."
Missouri Southern State College, for example, used incentive money to organize freshmen in interest groups that take blocks of classes together. Mr. Stein said the program worked so well that more Missouri Southern students were staying in college and their grades and test scores have risen.
While most states are still using performance to determine a small share of their spending, South Carolina recently decided to use a performance system as the basis for all higher-education spending.
A panel of business executives and politicians drafted a list of 37 performance indicators, and they will be applied quickly, with little testing. This year, the measures will determine a quarter of all new appropriations, or less than $5 million. Next year, they will determine three-quarters of all new money above the previous base. By 1999, they are to cover the state's entire $700 million higher education budget.

GRAPHIC: Photo: If many students have to work to support themselves, graduation rates may be lower. Commencement at Columbia University. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; STATES (US) COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); GRADUATION RATES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); STUDENT TEACHER RATIO (77%); BUDGETS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); QUALITY CONTROL (72%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



203 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: The World;
The Jobless Are Snared In Europe's Safety Net

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT

 BODY:
EVEN today, after years of rising unemployment, it isn't hard to see why Germany once won worldwide praise as a workers' paradise.
Full-time employees are entitled to six weeks of paid vacation. They get comprehensive health insurance, including, every four years, three weeks of "spa leave" for recuperation at health resorts, if a doctor prescribes it. Unemployment and job-training benefits can easily last more than two years. Universities are free and good. And as in most of Europe, tough laws make it almost impossible to fire people. 
 But you need a full-time job to enter paradise, and Europe is short about 18 million of them. Even though the continent appears poised for its first significant growth in years, unemployment remains more than twice as high as in the United States and no one expects it to decline much in 1998. European heads of state will meet for a summit conference on joblessness in Luxembourg this month, but few people expect any big results.
 
Sharing the Pain
 Europe's problem transcends jobs. It is also about the distribution of pain and insecurity. Largely because its laws and union contracts have enshrined so many job guarantees, the European system protects those who have jobs at the expense of those who do not. The burdens fall disproportionately on people who cannot find work, and those tend to be young high school or college graduates or older workers who have been forced out of work through plant closings and aren't considered re-trainable.
The insecurity shows up in many areas. In France, about two-thirds of all newly hired workers are on temporary contracts of less than one year. These limited-term jobs allow companies to provide benefits but escape rules making it all but impossible to dismiss workers. In Germany, 5.5 million workers are in a special category of part-time jobs that pay no more than 610 marks a month -- about $350 -- in which neither the worker nor the employer has to pay for unemployment insurance, health insurance or retirement. But the Government does.
A wealth of evidence shows that part-time work falls to young people and women in particular. More than one-third of European workers under the age of 25 are in temporary jobs, while another one-third work without company benefits as "self-employed" contractors. Part-timers account for 16.5 percent of workers across the European Union. Only one-third of the people with full-time jobs are female.
By contrast, the United States Labor Department estimates that part-time work has been fairly constant, encompassing nearly one-fifth of the American work force. Temporary workers, loosely defined to include people who don't expect their jobs to last very long, account for only 2.2 percent of the work force, according to the Labor Department. Meanwhile, American jobless rate of 5 percent remains less than half that of Europe.
Guenter Wisswede, head of the Institute for Economic and Social Psychology at the University of Cologne, said, "We now have the curious situation where companies are growing and becoming more profitable, but their success comes from being able to do that with fewer workers.
"There is a gap between workers who have secured their jobs and workers who either don't have jobs or whose jobs are endangered," Professor Wisswede added. "On the one side are people with secure jobs, who are typically highly qualified, highly involved with their work and well paid. On the other side are the workers on the margin -- young people or people over the age of 50 who can't easily be integrated into the workplace. These are the two big problem areas."
As if that were not enough, European governments are now under enormous pressure to cut social spending in order to bring their fiscal deficits down low enough to meet the guidelines for joining the new single European currency, the euro, in 1999.
The strains are becoming particularly acute as European business comes under increasingly heavy pressure from global competition. Most economists now predict that Germany and France will enjoy economic growth of more than 2.5 percent next year. European economic growth might even surpass that of the United States. The jobless rate, however, will remain at roughly current levels for at least another year.
The relentlessly bleak job picture was central to the election defeat of French conservatives and the victory of Socialists last June. Chancellor Helmut Kohl's political credibility in Germany has been severely damaged by his failure to make progress toward halving the unemployment rate by 2000, and he faces a tough re-election battle next year.
For many workers, the short-term outlook is likely to worsen. European corporations have been consumed by merger mania and tough-minded restructuring. Marginal businesses are being sold or shut down. Workers are being laid off or forced into early retirement. The drumbeat of new announcements is almost daily.
When two of Germany's biggest heavy-industry conglomerates merged their steel mills early this year, they announced that 7,000 German workers would lose their jobs over the next few years. The companies, Thyssen A.G. and the Krupp-Hoesch Group, liked the profits so much that they announced last week that they would merge all their other businesses and save an additional $250 million a year.
In an ever blunter move two weeks ago, Asea Brown-Boveri, a giant Swedish-Swiss engineering company, said it would cut 10,000 workers, most of them in Europe, and plow the savings into Asia. And Roche Holding A.G., the Swiss pharmaceutical giant that is buying a German manufacturer of diagnostic kits for about $10 billion, announced that it would cut 5,000 people, or nearly 7 percent of that company's work force.
Of course, this is Europe, and these workers aren't simply fired. Companies reduce their payroll mostly through attrition and early retirement. And in Germany, laid-off workers are entitled to as much as 70 percent of their salary for at least a year. Job-training money, for both the cost of education and the cost of living, can replace much of a person's earnings for even longer.
In some quarters, there are signs of fatalism about the inevitability of higher unemployment. The French Government under Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, a Socialist, is trying to conjure up new jobs by shortening the workweek -- while not cutting pay. The theory is that companies will hire more people if each person works less. Germany's biggest union, which represents machinery and metal workers, is pushing a 32-hour week but proposing that pay be trimmed proportionately.
Business executives, economists and even top officials at the European Commission in Brussels have loudly denounced both plans. More than one person has remarked that the shortened workweek should be taken to its logical conclusion: cut back the hours all the way to zero and guarantee everyone a job.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A man enjoys a little poolside reading at the Norwegian Government's health center in the Canary Islands. (Elvira Urquijo/Agence France-Presse for The New York Times); Demonstrators in Berlin protest unemployment. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORWAY (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORWAY (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (91%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); RESORTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



204 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Dissents on Iran and Iraq;
Carrots-for-China Policy Haunts U.S. in the Gulf

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
EACH in his own way, President Jiang Zemin of China and President Saddam Hussein of Iraq threw the spotlight last week on a central contradiction of the Clinton Administration's foreign policy -- a policy most notable for its heavy emphasis on trade.
During Mr. Jiang's visit to the United States, President Clinton said China was "on the wrong side of history" on human rights, but he resisted threatening trade penalties as a way of prodding it toward democracy. With Iraq, in contrast, the Administration insists that a trade embargo and the threat of military force are the only way to force Saddam Hussein to observe the norms of civilized behavior. 
 After six years of going along with this approach on Iraq, some of America's allies in the United Nations are starting to argue that what's sauce for the Chinese goose is sauce for the Persian Gulf gander. If trade is the way to get China on the road to salutary behavior, France and Russia ask, why isn't it for Iraq and, for that matter, Iran as well?
"The Chinese case destroys the American pretension to universality on human rights," the well-connected French daily Le Monde wrote in an editorial after Mr. Jiang's visit ended last week. "Are they less trampled on in Turkey or Saudi Arabia than in Iran or Cuba? The former are allies of America, which cajoles them; the latter are enemies it is bent on punishing."
As far as Iraq is concerned, French officials agree with the Americans that it's still too early to trust the Iraqi President. Last week, continuing a long pattern of defiance, Mr. Hussein tried to exploit the split between the allies by barring Americans from United Nations inspection teams, which are trying to make sure that Iraq has no nuclear, chemical or biological weapons. While emissaries tried to reason with Mr. Hussein in Baghdad, there were signs that he was using the impasse to move evidence out of sight of monitoring devices.
Despite such cheek, the United States favors staying the diplomatic course for now, in part because it recognizes that support for its tough approach is flagging.
"We are prepared to go the extra mile diplomatically if that makes other countries take firm action, if necessary, later," said James Rubin, the State Department spokesman. "But it's true that it's harder and harder to sustain support as memories of the gulf war fade."
 
Leverage
Case in point: the French. While they still don't rule out the use of force, they nevertheless see the repeated pattern of Iraqi challenges and American-led military responses as a vicious cycle that leads nowhere over the long term. They say that since sanctions would have to be eased should Iraq eventually comply fully with disarmament orders, it's better to start talking about how to do that now rather than when compliance happens.
"The more hope we can give Saddam Hussein that trade sanctions might eventually be lifted, the more leverage we have in the long run," a French official said. "If we refuse, we create growing resentment in the whole Iraqi population," he said, since the sanctions hurt the Iraqi people and not Mr. Hussein. Officials in Russia, also on the United Nations Security Council, expressed the same view.
Of course, both France and Russia may simply be tired of being led around by the nose in the Persian Gulf by the World's Only Superpower. Probably more important, they'd like to trade with Iran and Iraq about as much as America likes to trade with China. "No country has a foreign policy based solely on human rights," Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine observed recently, and American policy toward China proves his point.
After the Persian Gulf war ended in 1991 with Mr. Hussein's army driven from Kuwait -- but short of an allied push to Baghdad to oust him -- American leaders believed, or hoped, that a trade embargo and other restrictions would quickly cause his downfall. They guessed wrong. The French and Russians now argue that since the Americans are unlikely to send an army back in to finish the job, and since the world has to live with Mr. Hussein anyway, it should think about carrots as well as sticks to get him to change his ways.
Exactly what kind of carrots is not yet clear, and the French agree with the United States that now is not the time to offer them. But, they argue, a trade embargo isn't a policy; at best, they say, it can be only one element in a broader strategy to encourage moderation and engagement with the West, in both Iraq and Iran.
Clearly, feelings against either country do not run as strongly in Europe as they do in Washington. On Iran, key to the divergent views is Americans' bitter memory of the 444-day hostage-taking at the United States Embassy in Teheran starting 18 years ago this month.
 
'Critical Dialogue'
In 1995, Europeans preferred to maintain a "critical dialogue" with Iran rather than join the United States in imposing trade sanctions over the Islamic regime's support for terrorism. And in September, a French oil company, Total, joined Russian and Malaysian concerns in a $2 billion joint deal to explore an Iranian natural gas field under the gulf; the French Government backed them in thumbing their noses at American extraterritorial legislation aimed at punishing foreign firms that do business with Iran, Libya or Cuba.
Europeans who support the tough American stance on Iraq -- even the British -- detest American efforts to apply such laws to them. They depend on trade for an economic revival on the continent.
How anxious Europeans are to look on the bright side is clear in their recent policy toward Iran. All 15 European Union countries withdrew their ambassadors from Teheran last summer after a German court found the leadership there responsible for ordering a terrorist bombing in Berlin five years ago. They have not yet sent the envoys back in only because Iran insists on dictating to them the order in which they may return, with Germany returning last. The Europeans have balked.
But it's clearly only a matter of time before they do go back. American attempts to force them into a more "moral" policy just make them more determined, a fact Washington has recognized by avoiding a direct confrontation so far with France and Russia over the gas deal.
Eventually, the sanctions issue will have to be revisited with Iraq as well. Count on the European allies and the Arab countries in the gulf-war coalition to remember the China parallel.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); GULF STATES (78%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; IRAQ; IRAN; EUROPE; FRANCE; RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); GULF STATES (78%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



205 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Urban Renewal;
Politicians Even A Voter Could Love

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
MAYOR PAT McCRORY of Charlotte, N.C., a Republican, is so revered that several big-name Democrats refused to take him on this year. That left him two walk-on opponents: a disciple of Lyndon LaRouche and a convicted bank robber given to sporting a pith helmet and a pair of bayonette sheaths. The Mayor practically walked to re-election Tuesday.
In St. Paul, where the Democrat-Farmer-Labor Party has long dominated, Mayor Norm Coleman switched to the Republican Party before this year's election. On Tuesday, despite his defection, Mayor Coleman won re-election easily. The next day, a draft committee announced that it would press the Mayor to run for Governor next year. 
 And in New York, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has become so politically untouchable that on election night he was surrounded by more Democrats than his fellow Republicans. That did not stop the Republican Party in Iowa from inviting him the next day to travel to the state to show his stuff for the Presidential competition in 2000. (He declined.)
In an era when elected officials are hardly beloved, occupants of this country's city halls are the closest things to model politicians. As parties become less important and as Republicans and Democrats search for ways to set themselves apart, mayors are setting the course for post-ideological, pragmatic politics.
Last week's elections underscored the trend: No sitting mayor of a large city was turned out. Most won in landslides.
Beyond their popularity, what is striking about these mayors is that they represent different parties, come from different regions and preside over cities with different problems -- yet they are remarkably similar: in a highly partisan era, none is especially partisan, and some are disliked by their own party establishments -- which could be hazardous to bigger political ambitions.
"You probably wouldn't be able to distinguish who's a Democrat and who's a Republican -- we're all managing in very much the same way," said Mayor Tom Murphy of Pittsburgh, who was re-elected Tuesday with 77 percent of the vote. "My slogan in the campaign was, 'He never forgets to pay the bill.' Sounds pretty Republican, doesn't it?" Mayor Murphy is a Democrat.
Mayor Giuliani, for one, favors abortion rights and has never been forgiven by prominent Republicans for backing Mario M. Cuomo, a Democrat, for re-election in the 1994 gubernatorial race. Mayor Richard Riordan of Los Angeles, a Republican, backed Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat, in her re-election bid that same year. Among the Democrats, Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago has been seen by some in his party as championing an ethnic backlash. And Mayor Michael R. White of Cleveland, in an un-Democrat-like move, took on the teachers union and ridiculed Cleveland's teachers as "the inmates running the asylum."
Few are polished politicians. And despite their success on Election Day, many are not greatly admired personally. In Detroit, when people refer to "the Mayor," usually they still mean the irascible Coleman Young, not Dennis Archer, who succeeded him and was re-elected last week. Mayor Giuliani, according to polls, is more admired than he is liked. Mayor Daley is famously inarticulate. Mayor Riordan, by political standards, is almost a recluse.
Most of these mayors can point to a particular accomplishment in cities once deemed ungovernable. Mayor Giuliani touts the enormous decline in crime. Mayor Edward Rendell of Philadelphia took on his city's powerful public employee unions. And Mayor Daley took control of his city's schools.
 
The Whitman Lesson
A few years back, it was the governors -- Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey, John Engler of Michigan, Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin -- who were the hot political properties, at least in the Republican Party. Three of the last four Presidents had been governors.
Now, governors risk even being eclipsed by perhaps less known politicians like Mayors Giuliani, Daley, Riordan, White, Archer and Thomas M. Menino of Boston (who ran unopposed). Mrs. Whitman, a Republican, was almost toppled last week not just by a political unknown but by a mayor, James E. McGreevey of Woodbridge, N.J.
The mayors should be grateful for the timing of the stewardships: in most cities, crime has dropped and economies have revived. "Six to eight years ago, cities were in dire shape, mayors were highly unpopular and the attitude was, 'We govern tough places, please feel sorry for us,' " Mayor Stephen Goldsmith of Indianapolis said. "This new group of mayors has a pragmatism that supersedes political differences."
Gov. George V. Voinovich of Ohio, a Republican who was Mayor of Cleveland, said showy mayors of the past are, for the most part, gone. "I used to kid that in New York City, you had to be an entertainer to be a successful mayor," he said. "But I think we reached a point in this country where people said, 'I don't care how you look, what your style is or how cute you are: Doggone it! I want to feel safe on the street when go home at night.' "
Indeed, the ascendancy of hands-on, nonpartisan mayors marks a pronounced shift in urban politics. For years, cities were the province of Democratic machines and mayors would not dare toy with unions or social welfare programs.
Their managerial experience and ability to avoid partisanship may be an asset for Mayors who seek higher office. Yet the factors that make them so popular locally can be an obstacle for those with grander ambitions. Mayor Giuliani's cachet with Democrats (45 percent of Democrats who voted Tuesday supported the Mayor) would not serve him well, for example, in Republican Presidential primaries.
"There's a certain suspicion that comes from other municipalities around the state," said Mayor Archer of Detroit, who is mentioned as a candidate for Governor next year. "Sometimes people have a sense that a mayor coming from a large urban area would only have his or her city as a priority."
Senator Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho, a Republican who was Mayor of Boise, cited himself as evidence that there was hope for advancement. When he contemplated running for mayor, he said, "I was told by political experts it was a dead-end street."
Still, the record is not encouraging. Only three mayors have made it to the White House: Andrew Johnson of Greenville, Tenn., Grover Cleveland of Buffalo, and, the closest thing to a modern politician to make the leap, Calvin Coolidge of Northampton, Mass.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani rising: A landslide on Tuesday, and on Wednesday an invitation to show his stuff in Iowa for the Presidential primaries. (Associated Press)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TEACHER UNIONS (64%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (62%); GOVERNORS (57%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L PAT MCCRORY (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%); NORM COLEMAN (74%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



206 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
Another Decline In Unemployment
Unemployment tumbled to a 24-year low amid brisk hiring in October, the Labor Department reported. "It's a sign of a tremendously strong U.S. economy," said Allen Sinai, president of Primark Decision Economics of Boston. The rate fell two-tenths of a percentage point, to 4.7 percent, the lowest since 4.6 percent in October 1973. Most other data also pointed to a robust economy. Retailers reported unexpectedly strong October sales, underscoring the importance of Halloween goods; the Goldman Sachs retail composite index climbed 4.5 percent. The National Association of Purchasing Management reported that manufacturing unexpectedly strengthened in October, and the Conference Board said its index of leading indicators rose two-tenths of a percent in September. Also, personal incomes rose four-tenths of a percent in September, while factory orders rose for the fourth consecutive month. Demand for metals and high technology paced the gain of four-tenths of a percent. Construction spending fell unexpectedly in September, however, posting its biggest drop in almost a year, 1.1 percent.
 
MARKETS
A Rocky Recovery
Like many convalescents, the stock market had some good days and some bad ones. After being battered the previous week, the Dow Jones industrial average soared 232 points on Monday. By Friday, investors were selling -- reacting, again, to the uncertainties in Southeast Asia, as well as to the specter of inflation raised by the strong jobs data. The blue-chip average ended the week at 7,581.32, up 139.24 for the week. The Nasdaq composite index was up 8.79 at 1,602.40. . . . The New York Stock Exchange plans to drop its controversial rule No. 500, which makes it nearly impossible for a listed company to move to another market voluntarily. Nasdaq officials have long cited it, warning potential defectors that if they went to the Big Board, there would be no turning back.
 
TAXES
Vox Populi Is Heard
Were L. L. Bean's flannel shirts about to join the tea in Boston Harbor? Their phone lines jammed by angry consumers, mail order companies backed away from an agreement that the Direct Marketing Association had reached with state tax authorities to collect sales taxes. . . . Nor are Federal taxes any more welcome. The House voted by an overwhelming 426 to 4 to rein in the Internal Revenue Service, giving taxpayers new rights and authorizing the creation of a new board made up largely of private citizens to oversee the tax collectors. "The I.R.S. is too big and too mean," said Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader. The agency is also getting a new boss, who has promised to tame it, as well as to rejuvenate its arthritic computers. The Senate confirmed Charles O. Rossotti, co-founder of American Management Systems, a computer systems and consulting company, as commissioner.
 
COMPANIES
Levi's Cutoffs
It's not that people finally have enough jeans. It's a matter of competing while paying American workers. Levi Strauss said it would cut a third of its American manufacturing jobs, affecting 6,395 workers and closing 11 factories in four states. But it promised a generous severance package. . . . City officials halted work on Donald J. Trump's $3 billion Riverside South project in Manhattan, below, because of defective concrete. Mr. Trump said the subcontractor that poured it, Laquila/Pinnacle, would have to bear the resultant costs. . . . AT&T is cutting to 3 from 33 the number of long-distance rates paid by residential customers who do not subscribe to a special calling plan. . . . General Electric is cashing in its 13 percent stake in Lockheed Martin for $2.8 billion. . . . Boeing plans to phase out the MD-80 and the MD-90, civilian jets that compete with its 737. Boeing inherited the planes when it acquired McDonnell Douglas.
 
DEALS
Gambling on ITT
Hilton Hotels raised its hostile bid for control of ITT, only to be countered on Friday with a sweetened offer from Starwood Lodging Trust. Shareholders are to meet on Wednesday. . . . The Justice Department recommended that BellSouth not be allowed to offer long-distance service in South Carolina. . . . Microsoft is close to an agreement to invest up to $1 billion in the cable television operations of U S West, according to several people involved in the negotiations.
 
PRICES
Ceilings Are Legal
Consumers can shop for that hot new car with less fear of having to pay a premium. The Supreme Court, in one of its most important antitrust decisions in years, ruled unanimously that a manufacturer or supplier does not necessarily violate Federal antitrust law by placing a ceiling on the retail price a dealer can charge for its products. The decision was widely welcomed by manufacturers, notably those in the auto and computer industries, who said it could lead to lower consumer prices. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor noted that it remained illegal for manufacturers to impose minimum prices on dealers.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 
Graph shows civilian unemployment. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
 
Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION INC (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SALES TAX (76%); RETAILERS (76%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); DIRECT MARKETING (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (54%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



207 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

MONDAY
The Agriculture Department issues its revised estimate of the 1997 corn, soybean, cotton and Florida orange harvests.
 
TUESDAY
Mitsubishi Bank/Schroder Wertheim releases its weekly retail sales report.
LJR Redbook Research releases its weekly retail sales survey. 

WEDNESDAY
The Federal Reserve's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee meets to discuss interest rates.
The Department of Energy reports on United States petroleum stocks, production, imports and refinery utilization.
 
THURSDAY
The Labor Department reports on productivity and costs for the third quarter.
The Labor Department reports on initial weekly claims for unemployment insurance.
 
FRIDAY
The Labor Department releases the Producer Price Index for October.
The Commerce Department reports on retail sales for October.
The University of Michigan discloses its monthly index of consumer sentiment.
The Federal Reserve releases its weekly report on commercial and industrial loans at commercial banks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI LTD (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RETAIL SALES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (88%); PRODUCER PRICES (87%); PRODUCTIVITY (87%); MONETARY POLICY (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (67%); INTEREST RATES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



208 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: DIARY: AUTOS;
Unafraid in Asia

 BODY:
Although the economic tigers of Southeast Asia may be looking more like alley cats, American and Japanese auto makers continue their Asian expansion, apparently undaunted. G.M. and Ford are building huge new assembly plants in Thailand, where a crumbling economy caused the Prime Minister, Chavalit Yongchaiyudh, below, to resign after just 11 months in office. The auto makers are also preparing to open up to five more factories in Southeast Asia and China. Toyota and Honda are cutting back production temporarily but are not changing their basic plans. . . . At home, Detroit's Big Three reported weak sales in October, the first month of the new model year. G.M. sales fell 4 percent; Ford's, 2.1 percent, and Chrysler's, 8.3 percent. Buyers showed enthusiasm only for the hottest new or redesigned models, like the brawny new Dodge Durango sport utility vehicle or the redesigned Honda Accord. Honda's sales rose 11.2 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Agence France-Presse)
 
Chart: Leading car makers have rushed to open factories in East and Southeast Asian nations; some are full-scale plants, while others are smaller assembly operations. Map shows plant locations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



209 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1865 words

HEADLINE: United Way, Faced With Fewer Donors, Is Giving Away Less

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Justine and Jasmine Scott, 7-year-old twins, wanted to spend the summer at Challengers Boys and Girls Club, which for almost three decades has provided a haven for youngsters from the dangerous neighborhoods south of downtown Los Angeles.
"My girls didn't want to just watch their grandmother's television while I work," said their mother, Loretta Scott, a secretary. "But with the gangs, it's not safe for them to play in the neighborhood." 
 But the club turned them away, as it has hundreds of others in the last three summers, because its allocation from the Greater Los Angeles United Way, adjusted for inflation, has been cut 75 percent since 1990.
The story is the same across the country. Boys and Girls Clubs, Big Sisters, Boy Scouts, Family Service Associations and similar charities are getting less from United Way, forcing them to raise more on their own, and to deny help to people like the Scott twins.
Five years after its former national president was found to be converting charity money to his own use, United Way is in crisis, abandoned by 4.5 million people -- 20 percent of its donors. And most of its 17.7 million remaining donors give less through payroll deduction, United Way's bread and butter.
If donations had continued to rise as fast as they did in the five years before the scandal, United Way would have raised $4.14 billion last year. Instead it raised $3.25 billion, down 11 percent from 1991 but up slightly from 1995. (All figures are adjusted for inflation.) And less of that smaller amount helps the poor.
But it is far more than the betrayal of the public trust by the former president, William V. Aramony, that has battered United Way, the nation's largest fund-raising organization, which this month is winding up its annual fund-raising appeals on behalf of a federation of social service agencies. The nation's giving habits have also changed drastically as corporate downsizing ripped into the core of United Way's base: large factories and offices.
Not that Americans have turned more miserly. The American Association of Fund-Raising Counsel says that total charitable giving by individuals has risen 9 percent, or $10.7 billion, since 1991, while United Way is down 11 percent, or $400 million. But donors are often leaving out the neediest causes -- social services in poor neighborhoods.
Since 1991, donations to social service charities, a big chunk of which goes to United Way agencies, have fallen 5 percent. The big winners have been health charities and hospitals, up 25 percent, to $13.9 billion; education, up 21 percent, to $18.8 billion, and religion, up 12 percent to $69.4 billion.
This shift has been an added blow to the poor, coming as the Government has cut social-service spending.
The decline in support is most severe in older cities and in California, long a United Way trend-setter.
Donations to the New York City United Way campaign fell 17.5 percent between 1991 and 1996. A confidential study last year of large California United Ways by Bain & Company showed donations falling 7 percent annually from 1991 through 1994; they have since been essentially flat.
Donations to the Los Angeles United Way last year were half what they were in 1990. There were also declines in Orange County and San Diego. The United Way in Vallejo, north of San Francisco, ran a $600,000 deficit and is now folding into the United Way of the Bay Area, the first of what is likely to become a wave of consolidations among the 1,300 United Ways.
Thomas A. Ruppaner, president of United Way of the Bay Area, said the confidential Bain report "is telling us that we are going out of business unless we fundamentally change."
The core of United Way's problem is the loss of millions of donors who once had money deducted from their paychecks. And the trouble is compounded by slower wage growth for those who still donate.
Detailed national figures are not available, but, in a typical case, the United Way of Central Indiana found that the average payroll gift last year was $91.42, down a third from 1991.
This problem would have been much worse but for a shift in strategy by United Way, which has turned to business owners and executives for yearly gifts of $1,000 or more. These gifts provided 17 percent of United Way donations last year, up from 8 percent five years ago. In effect, United Way is now competing more with its member agencies to raise money from the wealthiest people.
The number of factories and offices holding United Way campaigns is also shrinking. Nationwide data are not available, but in Indianapolis, for example, the number of workplaces with campaigns last year was 11 percent below that of 1991.
Many people also mistakenly believe that Mr. Aramony, who is in prison after being convicted of fraud and tax evasion, is still in charge. "Only 4 percent of the public knows that we have had a change in leadership," said Betty Beene, the third United Way of America president since Mr. Aramony.
United Ways also face demands by national corporations, with fewer executives to spare, to take on more of the costs of their campaigns. In San Francisco, Chicago, Boston and other large cities, United Ways have developed regional pledge-processing centers, and Ms. Beene is about to begin a national center. These centers collect money from national employers like Wal-Mart or J. C. Penney and, for a fee, pass it on to United Ways in smaller cities.
"The costs for these pledge-processing centers seem nickel and dime to the big United Ways," said Carolyn Walden, executive director of Humboldt County United Way, in Eureka, Calif., "but that money is our budget to run small United Ways."
Traditionally, United Way member agencies could count on their annual allocations growing in proportion to total donations. That began changing in the 1980's, when reformers led by the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy started urging companies to let workers send money deducted from their pay to any charity.
United Way responded by adding charities, creating a way to channel certain donations to favored charities and urging companies to lock out rival fund-raising groups.
The reformers expected that once donors were free to give to charities of their choice, they would give more to those serving the poor and protecting the environment, especially non-United Way agencies.
But when donors specify where they want their donation used, the money tends to go to agencies with the biggest budgets, like the Boy Scouts and the Red Cross. So in many places the traditional system of spreading money around based on need has broken down.
"People who work for the big companies in the cities are not giving to the inner-city charities," said Pablo Eisenberg, founder of the reform movement, "but to their Y.M.C.A. in the suburbs."
But even the best-known agencies are suffering because United Way added many agencies to its list. Last year, the 10 largest United Way agencies received 38 percent of all United Way funds, down from 43 percent in 1985.
In other words, each charity gets a skimpier piece of a smaller pie, which means some people go without. Boys and Girls Clubs, which serve mostly poor children, counted on United Way for 21 percent of their budgets last year, down from 36 percent in 1987.
Big Sisters of Central Indiana gets 35 percent of its money from United Way, down from 67 percent two decades ago. Sally Herrholz, the executive director, said she expected United Way's share of her financing to continue to fall.
This forces her to spend more time running fund-raising events like bowling tournaments, rather than focusing on her main task: training volunteers and connecting them with girls from troubled homes. Ms. Herrholz said only half the eligible girls receive help.
A shrinking pie means a rising share of donations eaten up by overhead -- everything from running fund-raising campaigns to keeping office lights on.
Historically, United Ways have been the most efficient mass fund-raisers, holding overhead below 15 percent, but at large California United Ways overhead averaged 22 percent in 1995, the Bain study shows.
United Ways are more efficient than most people believe, a survey commissioned by United Way of America found. Of those expressing an opinion, 60 percent wrongly estimated United Way overhead at 40 percent or more.
"There is a disconnect between what United Ways do and what people think they do," Ms. Beene said. "And the reason for that disconnect is our ineptness at explaining what we do."
Within the 1,300 United Ways, sharp divisions have arisen about how to cope with the drop in popular support, the new demands of corporations and increased competition for donations.
Many United Ways are marketing themselves as a force that will solve community problems like youth violence and drug addiction. Many agency directors, though, say that that is not the proper mission and that their job is not to solve social problems but to provide services that society will always need.
"If United Way sells itself as a problem-solving agency, they will be out of business in 20 years," said John Brewster, executive director of the Boys and Girls Club in Santa Ana, Calif. "I don't solve problems. I help kids develop on their way to being adults."
To cope with less, some United Ways, like the one in Sacramento, Calif., have begun dictating precisely how member agencies can spend their money.
Nonprofit agency directors who used to count on what they referred to as "golden dollars" from United Way to pay overhead and run the programs they felt were best say that the change gives United Way too much power.
The most radical approach was taken two years ago in California by the United Ways in Orange and San Diego Counties. They dropped the system of having volunteers allocate money and substituted annual applications for money, opening the process to all charities and in essence becoming grant-making foundations.
"We drive the agencies nuts because they don't know from year to year what they will get," said Bruce Boland, chief professional officer of the San Diego United Way.
The bigger agencies, Mr. Boland added, "don't like the annual request for proposals, and they are saying, 'We formed you, United Way, and your job is to fund-raise for us.' I tell them that the system has evolved."
The executive directors of nine large San Diego United Way charities have been quietly meeting to study whether they should quit United Way and form their own fund-raising federation.
Making charities apply for grants, said Ms. Walden, the Eureka United Way executive, is "redundant and wasteful and is contrary to what we are about, which is a stable source of funding for member agencies that the community wants and needs."
Other United Ways, like the statewide one in Delaware, are trying to return to the system in which the United Way marketed itself as raising money primarily for a small group of social service agencies.
Although donor designations are still allowed, they are no longer promoted. Pledges to United Way of Delaware rose 14 percent last year compared with 1995 figures.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jasmine Scott, 7, left, and her twin sister, Justine, could not attend a summer camp in Los Angeles because of cutbacks by United Way. (Edward Carreon for The New York Times)(pg. 28)
 
Chart: "Giving More, Giving Less"
Some United Way campaigns are thriving. But many have suffered large drops. Chart shows the campaigns where giving has risen or fallen the most since 1991, excluding those that raised less than $9 million a year; also shown are results of some campaigns in the New York area that raised $4 million or more. (Sources: Chronicle of Philanthropy; United Way of America; listed campaigns)(pg. 28)
 
Graph: "Out of Favor"
Change since 1991 in total giving to charitable organizations, including churches, synagogues and mosques, adjusted for inflation. (Sources: American Association of Fund-Raising Counsel, United Way of America)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: UNITED WAY UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (94%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED WAY UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (94%); UNITED WAY OF AMERICA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (73%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; ARAMONY, WILLIAM V

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



210 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Stalks G.O.P. Votes In Final Push for Trade Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 8

 BODY:
As the House of Representatives went into an unusual weekend session and the wheeling and dealing on President Clinton's trade legislation began in earnest, Commerce Secretary William M. Daley declared: "If you like attention, this is a good time to be undecided."
That is doubtlessly true for some lawmakers. Leaders worked all day today, for instance, to rewrite the bill's agriculture provisions in a way that might squeeze two or three votes out of the Florida delegation. 
 A freshman Democrat from North Carolina, Bob Etheridge, announced his support for the bill after he received a letter from President Clinton promising that any new tobacco legislation would "provide tobacco farmers with a safe, sound and secure future." Mr. Etheridge also obtained a pledge that future trade accords would not put American peanut growers at a disadvantage.
Representative Nita M. Lowey, who seemed genuinely undecided, spent 45 minutes at the White House Friday night, one on one with the President, without even any staff members present. Ms. Lowey, a Democrat from Westchester County, whose district includes parts of the Bronx and Queens, said today that she was still not sure how she would vote. She is torn between two sets of political friends.
The measure, meant to encourage international trade, would give the President the authority, called "fast track" in Congressional jargon, to negotiate trade pacts that Congress could vote up or down but could not amend. Every President since Gerald R. Ford has had this authority. Mr. Clinton's lapsed three years ago.
A lawmaker counting votes for the bill's proponents said tonight that he thought his side was seven votes shy of a majority. The prevailing view in the Capitol was that most of the additional votes had to come from Republicans. But so far there has been no indication that votes were switching.
In other business, the Senate passed a big spending bill but Congress stalled on related issues. Page A22.
On the trade legislation, a business lobbyist who has been counting noses concluded that the supporters and opponents of the legislation could each rely on perhaps 190 to 200 votes, and that three or four dozen lawmakers were not yet committed one way or the other. With 434 members of the House (and one vacant seat), 218 votes are needed for victory if everyone votes.
At last tally, about 160 Republicans and about 40 Democrats were committed to vote for the bill.
Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who heads the Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over trade legislation, said President Clinton would have to provide 15 or 20 more votes from among Democrats if he hoped to win. But others say the bill is dependent on Republicans for the winning votes.
The vote is scheduled for Sunday, but the view in the Capitol was that it would probably be postponed if a defeat seemed likely.
Passage of the legislation, the President declared in his radio address this morning, "means that American leadership in this hemisphere and elsewhere -- not only on trade but in fighting drugs and terrorism and dealing with our other security problems -- will be strengthened."
On the horizon for Mr. Clinton and his trade negotiators is a series of complex worldwide agreements over such issues as financial services, trade in telecommunications and computer services, and opening agricultural markets.
Mr. Clinton argues that his hand is weakened if he cannot guarantee that Congress will not reopen every deal to protect the interests of a specific constituent lobby.
Opponents counter that the United States should not be striking trade pacts with countries that abuse workers and have substandard environmental safeguards.
But in the Capitol today, no one was considering the substance of the issue. "This is way past being decided on the merits," a senior Republican staff assistant said. "At this stage, it is all politics."
On trade matters, more perhaps than on any other issue that Congress faces regularly, lawmakers focus more closely on the concerns of their constituents than they do on ideology or party loyalty.
This has created some strange alliances among politicians who are usually at odds, and it explains Representative Lowey's dilemma.
From one side, Ms. Lowey is being hammered by labor unions, environmentalists and food-safety watchdogs -- all staunch opponents of the trade bill.
They are among her strongest political friends. Environmental legislation has been her calling card since she was elected to Congress in 1988, and unions contributed more than $100,000 to her re-election campaign last year.
"Lots of people blame all the ills of society on trade," she said in an interview.
From the other side, Ms. Lowey is hearing from her many constituents who work in New York for telecommunications companies, securities firms, banks and retail stores, all of whom would benefit handsomely from expanded trade opportunities. "By inclination, I'm a free-trader," she said.
To show that she is not being bought out, Ms. Lowey said today, she will reject all donations from labor unions in her next campaign if she does decide to vote against the legislation.
The House had been scheduled to vote on the measure on Friday, but the vote was postponed to give the President and his supporters time to round up more votes.
The President worked Friday night and all day today, the White House said, calling and meeting with wavering legislators. At least three Cabinet members -- Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman and Commerce Secretary Daley -- were in Congress today working for votes. The word at the White House was that some officials might even visit wavering legislators at home tonight.
An organization of more than 600 businesses that support the trade bill set up shop in a Ways and Means Committee meeting room on the first floor of the Capitol so the business lobbyists could spend the weekend buttonholing lawmakers as they came to vote on other bills.
But opponents of the bill were working equally hard. A team of labor lobbyists fanned out across the Capitol telling Democrats that the unions were the only reliable source of campaign funds and grass-roots support for Democratic candidates.
When Democratic Representatives met in the Longworth Office Building across the street from the Capitol this afternoon, the first-floor corridor -- known as Gucci Gulch because it is where the well-shod tax lobbyists hang out when tax legislation is under consideration -- was lined with labor officials who nabbed lawmakers as they came and went.
The session in the Longworth Building was angry -- "a raucous caucus," Representative Gary L. Ackerman, Democrat of Queens, called it.
Many Democratic opponents of the legislation are upset at the President for suggesting earlier in the week that they were motivated by their own political needs rather than the country's foreign and economic policy. At one point, according to people who were present, Representative Peter A. DeFazio of Oregon accused Erskine B. Bowles, the White House chief of staff, of favoring the fast-track legislation merely to improve his stock portfolio.
A few Democrats were said to have jeered Mr. DeFazio, but many applauded him.
Rumors were rampant about favors the Administration was promising in return for votes. But if deals were being cut, they were being cut outside public view, and the specifics were difficult to track down.
"The dealing is low, slow and late and not very much," said Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, relating an insight based on 42 years of experience in the House. "You find someone who can give you an honest description of what they're giving away, and I'd like to meet them."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (76%); TOBACCO FARMING (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); PEANUT FARMING (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ARCHER, WILLIAM (REPR) BILL CLINTON (92%); BOB ETHERIDGE (73%); NITA M LOWEY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



211 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: ELECTION '97;
A Portrait of New Jersey Voters

BYLINE: By MARJORIE CONNELLY 

 BODY:
In 1993, Christine Todd Whitman became Governor of New Jersey by defeating her Democratic opponent by 2 percentage points. This year, the contest was even closer. Mrs. Whitman defeated her Democratic challenger, James E. McGreevey, by only one percentage point.
Men, Republicans, conservatives and voters with incomes over $50,000 gave Mrs. Whitman a majority of their votes this time as they did in 1993. Mr. McGreevey was backed by most blacks, Democrats, liberals and voters under age 30. 
 Surveys of voters leaving polling stations throughout the state are used to make up this table, which shows how 71 groups have voted for Governor over the past three elections. The exit polls used are based on large numbers of respondents, making it possible to evaluate some groups whose share of the voting population makes them too small to measure in a telephone survey.
 
The Third Candidate
The Libertarian candidate, Murray Sabrin, received 5 percent of the vote, the highest percentage any third-party candidate has received in an election for the Governor of New Jersey since 1919. Candidates other than the Republican or the Democrat generally receive, at most, one or two percent of the vote. Mr. Sabrin's best showing was among conservatives and independents. He did better with men than women, particularly men aged 45 to 59. Mr. Sabrin's appeal increased with income level, with the exception of the more affluent, with incomes over $100,000.
 
Gender
The gender gap is the difference between a candidate's votes from men and from women. Four years ago, men were 8 points more likely to vote for Mrs. Whitman than were women. The difference was most pronounced among conservatives and older voters. This year, there is only a 2-point difference among Mrs. Whitman's supporters, regardless of age or political identification.
 
Economic Concerns
In 1993, voters who regarded the economic condition of New Jersey as good favored the incumbent Democrat. Mrs. Whitman was strongly backed by voters who characterized the state's economy as poor. Support was divided among those who described the economy as "not so good." This year, as incumbent, Mrs. Whitman received the majority of votes from people who describe New Jersey's economy positively. Those who perceive the economy in a negative fashion favored Mr. McGreevey. However, while about three-quarters of voters saw the state's economy as poor or not so good in 1993, about two-thirds describe it as excellent or good this year. MARJORIE CONNELLY

GRAPHIC: Table shows polling results during the 1989, 1993, and 1997 elections.
NOTE: 1997 data were collected by Voter News Service based on questionnaires completed by 1,977 voters leaving 44 polling places throughout New Jersey on Election Day. 1993 data were collected by Voter Research and Surveys based on questionnaires completed by 1,988 voters. 1989 data were based on a survey conducted by The New York Times and WCBS-TV News with questionnaires from 1,653 voters. Those who gave no answer are not shown. Third-party candidates are not shown except for Sabrin in 1997. Dashes indicate that a question was not asked in a particular year. Asterisks indicate that there was an insufficient number of respondents in that subgroup. Double asterisks represent less than one half of a percent. The category of independents includes respondents who indicated they considered themselves something else in 1993 and 1997. Something else was not an option in 1989. Family financial situation is compared to four years ago. Union household is based on a four-part question in 1989, an item on a checklist in 1993 and a two-part question in 1997.
+ Family income categories in 1989: Under $12,500, $12,500- $24,999, $25,000-$49,999, $50,000-$100,000 and over $100,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION RESULTS GOVERNORS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); POLITICS (78%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); MEN (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); MCGREEVEY, JAMES (SEN); SABRIN, MURRAY; FLORIO, JAMES J CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



212 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 8; Page 5; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
High-Stakes Poker Is the Game for the Yankees

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Maybe the Yankees are serious about trading Bernie Williams, but their words and actions sound suspiciously as if they've been heard and seen before.
Go back to 1987 for one notorious example. Don Mattingly, in 1986, had batted .352, hit 31 home runs and driven in 113 runs. Whatever salary he sought in arbitration was his. Just by walking into the room, he could have the first arbitration-won salary of $2 million or more. 
 Just before Mattingly submitted his number, though, George Steinbrenner told him that if he won too high a salary, he probably would have to trade him. Couldn't afford those high salaries, you know.
So what did Mattingly do? The unstoppable, unflappable athlete bought the bluff and asked for $1,975,000. The chances of the Yankees' trading Mattingly at the time were less than zero. If they had, the fans would have run Steinbrenner out of town and back to Tampa.
By threatening to trade Williams if he demands too lucrative a contract in his year before free agency, Steinbrenner appears to be engaging in the same strategy he pursued with Mattingly. Why not? It worked then, and he figures it could work now.
But Williams is less likely to panic and go weak-kneed than Mattingly, because Scott Boras's clients generally hold to their positions. Sometimes that can be detrimental (see Jim Abbott with the Angels in 1992), but in Williams's case, he has to figure the Yankees would have trouble trading him because they could not come close to getting equal value.
Boras has said that Williams will not negotiate a contract with a team the Yankees want to trade him to, and what team is going to give up good players or prospects for a high-priced player it might have for only one year?
Someone might want to shed a high-priced player to offset Williams's salary, but the Yankees would gain nothing from that exchange.
The problem Steinbrenner faces with Williams is his own creation. As other clubs have followed the Cleveland Indians' lead and begun signing their young players to multiyear contracts, Steinbrenner has shunned the practice that can save a team millions.
The closest comparison to the Yankees and Williams is the Indians and Jim Thome, who like Williams is a productive hitter with power and can be a free agent after next season. Before Thome played a full season in the major leagues, the Indians signed him in March 1994 to a four-year contract with an option for a fifth year. In the first four years they paid Thome $5,325,000. Next year they will pay him $3,625,000 for a five-year total of $8.95 million.
Negotiating year by year, the Yankees have paid Williams $8,875,000 the past four years. He should be able to get at least that much in salary arbitration in February, meaning the Yankees will pay him about twice as much as the Indians will pay Thome in the same five-year period.
Having opted not to try to sign Williams early in his career and buy out his arbitration years, the Yankees are following the same path with Andy Pettitte and Mariano Rivera. As another comparison, the Angels signed Troy Percival, their closer, to a $3.5 million contract in March 1996 that calls for four years and two option years, taking him beyond his free-agency eligibility. By the time Rivera reaches that point, signing one-year contracts, he will have earned many millions more. Before last season, Pettitte was prepared to sign a three-year, $4.3 million contract, but General Manager Bob Watson told his agent that Steinbrenner didn't want to do it.
When Steinbrenner was asked why he has never signed good players early, he did not answer directly. "It may be that we will start to go that way, but who knows," he said. "You have to study it."
Asked whether he thought the Yankees would be ahead in the salary game if they had signed players the way the Indians have, he said: "That's a matter for judgment. We have guaranteed contracts. What you have to realize when you're guaranteeing it, what happens if a pitcher you sign for $5 million tears his rotor cuff and never pitches again? That's an awful lot of money to be gambling."
Steinbrenner said the decision to sign any player at any time requires a business judgment. Then he lamented the change that he said has occurred in negotiations for younger players.
"The way it was originally," he said, "the teams had the advantage in the earlier years. Players had theirs in later years. Now what has happened is players and their agents are forgetting that the first years are to be for the benefit of ownership and the team. Then when they served some time it would be to their advantage. Unfortunately, they want to remember one-half of it. The whole thing has gotten askew."
 
The Ceiling Rises
Twenty years ago, Bowie Kuhn, the baseball commissioner, put a $400,000 ceiling on the amount of cash a team could include in a trade. Everything has gone up since, including the ceiling. Here are the largest sums teams have included in trades to offset the players' salaries:
For John Olerud, Toronto gave the Mets $5 million; Kenny Rogers, the Yankees gave Oakland $5 million; Ruben Sierra, Detroit gave Cincinnati $4,875,000; Jay Bell, Pittsburgh gave Kansas City $2.2 million; Jose Canseco, Boston gave Oakland $1 million; J. T. Snow, Anaheim gave San Francisco $750,000; Dean Palmer, Texas gave Kansas City $673,343; Sierra, the Yankees gave Detroit $500,000, and Pete Harnisch, the Mets gave Milwaukee $473,896.
 
Pittsburgh's Next Step
Under the Pittsburgh Pirates' lease for Three Rivers Stadium, if the city, the state and the county do not come up with a plan to pay for a new park within two years of the team's change of ownership, it can declare its intention to move. Voters soundly rejected a plan last Tuesday, meaning the Pirates can trigger the timetable for moving in February.
But Kevin McClatchy, the team's managing partner, isn't counting down to the Feb. 14 trigger date. "The Mayor said he felt he would have some sort of direction or decision by January," McClatchy said. "So there's no need for me to make any decision on the trigger right now given his statements."
Instead, McClatchy said he is going back to running the team and letting elected officials try to develop a solution. "My main goal would be to get a new facility in Pittsburgh," said the 34-year-old owner, who has won over the cynics who believed he bought the team to move it elsewhere. "That's why I spent 18 months speaking at every Kiwanis club and Rotary club in western Pennsylvania trying to get support for baseball in Pittsburgh. I was willing to sign an ironclad 25-year lease and put considerable time and money into making that a reality. It is disappointing it didn't pass."
McClatchy said the idea of "moving the team and starting over" does not appeal to him. But, he quickly added: "It's also important that we have the ability to compete in Pittsburgh. I think in three years we could have a very good team. The real tragedy to me would be in three or four years to watch these young and talented players walk out the door."
An alternative concept surfaced after the funding proposal lost. The idea, put forward by Frank Lucchino, an influential Pittsburgh lawyer and older brother of Larry Lucchino, the San Diego Padres' president, would use public money to build a new park, but taxpayers would share in the franchise's increased value resulting from the new park.
"If the franchise is worth $70 million today, and after we build the ball park and people stream in, the value becomes $140 million," Lucchino said, "that would mean an appreciation of $70 million was caused by the taxpayers' investment. Share that with us. The numbers would have to be worked out. I suggested 50-50. That would mean $35 million is ours to go into an economic development fund to create additional jobs in Allegheny County."
Lucchino said the Pirates would have to agree with such a plan before officials could consider it. McClatchy said he had been out of town and was not familiar with the idea.
 
Angelos's Revolving Door
Peter Angelos does not like comparisons people make between him and George Steinbrenner. Sometimes, though, comparisons can't be avoided. When Angelos hires a manager for 1998, he will have had four managers in his first five seasons as owner of the Baltimore Orioles. Steinbrenner had only three.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (58%); FLORIDA, USA (56%); OHIO, USA (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); TAMPA, FL, USA (56%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); FLORIDA, USA (56%); OHIO, USA (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); TAMPA, FL, USA (56%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; TRADES (SPORTS); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BASEBALL (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POKER (74%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; WILLIAMS, BERNIE DONALD ARTHUR 'DON' MATTINGLY (94%); GEORGE STEINBRENNER (71%); JIM ABBOTT (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



213 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4; Column 5; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
When an Inmate Books the Ticket

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE 

 BODY:
GLORIA and Dan Bohan, who own a travel agency with offices coast to coast, a school for travel agents and a company that sells wholesale tickets and services to other agencies, have started a project to train prisoners to make computerized travel reservations.
At the end of October, 12 inmate reservationists from the all-women Leath Correctional Institution in Greenwood, a high-security prison in South Carolina, were still doing dry runs and taking tests. The women were selected from a large number of volunteers, many of them drug offenders. The Bohans, whose travel agency, Omega World Travel, has headquarters in Fairfax, Va., expected that at least one more big agency handling the travel of major corporations would be using the inmates. The Bohans will need more clients than their own agency's to sustain the project, which has been in development for several months. 
 The Bohans' wholesale company, Travel Wholesalers International, subcontracts many kinds of work, including reservations services, for travel agencies. Prison wages are far below market wages and there are no benefits, so such workers mean great cost savings.
Mr. Bohan stressed that no travel agency that bought services from the wholesale operation would find its individual clients plugged into the inmate reservation system without the agency's advance agreement.
To enhance clients' security, software has been created for the Bohans for use in prisons. They say it does not disclose to the reservationist the credit card number, home address or phone number of the client. These parts of the personal records maintained in computers by all travel agencies for their regular clients will not appear on the screen, they explain. The reservationist, receiving a call on an 800 number, will ask the caller's name and then deal with his or her requests. When the reservation information is complete with flight numbers and the like, the computer record will be moved electronically as a "blind transfer" to employees on the outside, who will have access to the full record and will print and deliver the ticket, after reviewing the inmate's work. The inmates are forbidden to use pencils or pens lest they retain data about travel plans.
 
T.W.A. First to Adopt Policy
The Bohans' is not the first travel company to use prisoners this way. Trans World Airlines, according to Donn Walker, a spokesman, has a reservations center employing inmates in a prison for young men in Ventura, Calif., north of Los Angeles. The center was opened in 1985 after the State of California approached the airline with the idea, he said. It has had only one security breach in that time, he said, which he thought was an enviable record.
People calling T.W.A. directly, however, do not know they are talking to prisoners. Mr. Walker said that the 40 inmates constituted less than 1 percent of the reservations staff and that if a caller asked the reservationist, "Where are you?" he would respond that he was in Ventura. T.W.A.'s four major reservations centers are in Los Angeles, St. Louis, Chicago and suburban Washington. The Ventura center operates 12 daytime hours five days a week.
Mr. Walker said that T.W.A. required an inmate to be enrolled in the facility's junior college before getting a job. The airline pays $5.39 an hour, of which 50 to 60 percent goes into a fund for the inmate when he is released. The rest goes into a fund to compensate crime victims and to pay prison expenses. Passenger information, including credit card numbers, is given to the prisoners.
T.W.A.'s use of prisoners was featured on a "Prime Time Live" broadcast on ABC News on Oct. 22. The show examined telemarketing services that use prisoners and cited the T.W.A. security breach, in which a released prisoner used a customer's credit card number to buy thousands of dollars' worth of computers and lingerie. Mr. Walker said the prisoner was arrested and convicted.
The ABC program also cited a case not connected with travel: A prisoner wrote a sexually provocative letter to a woman whose response to a survey from a company called Metromail, full of personal information, was given to a fellow prisoner to enter into a data base. Metromail has ceased using prison labor, the ABC program reported.
The use of prisoners in work projects where they deal directly with the public is controversial. The prison-labor uses discussed on "Prime Time Live" provoked criticism from people interviewed on the program on grounds of loss of privacy. The Travel section of The Times recently received a letter from a Minneapolis man who believed he had reached a prisoner when he called an 800 T.W.A. number. He complained that he did not want any prisoner to know -- by virtue of his having made plane reservations for certain dates -- when he would be away. He said he hung up and called again, getting a woman and continuing with his reservation.
Criticism has also come from the labor movement, which contends that unemployed people would be happy to have such jobs if they got the same training.
 
Goals: Job Skills and Savings
The Bohans say their project differs from T.W.A.'s in two ways: The client corporations know what they are getting into, and no personal information other than name is known to the prisoners. The Bohans say their project has two principal goals. They consider it socially responsible. The women are learning skills that will enable them to earn a living when they are released. "It makes use of talented people," Mrs. Bohan said. "We have received calls from inmates' parents to say thanks." The inmates' pay -- it starts at 50 cents an hour -- will go to a fund for them and their children. Also, in lieu of the familiarization trips that are offered to regular travel agents, airlines' free flights may be used to fly inmates' children -- most current participants' children live in New York, Ms. Bohan said -- to visit their mothers in Greenwood.
A spokesman for the South Carolina Department of Corrections, John Barkley, said that the project was important because it gave inmates vocational training and work. He said that when these prisoners were released they would receive jobs with Omega. "Ninety percent of our state's inmates go back to society," Mr. Barkley said. "It's valuable when they have work to go to."
Not surprisingly, the Bohans' other goal is lowering travel agency operating costs at a time when a second round of commission reductions by airlines has pinched most agencies. Travel Wholesalers International is a specialist in outsourcing, and sets up computer facilities in areas with a large labor pool and a low cost of living.
The three cost factors in setting up a client's flight, Mr. Bohan said, are making the reservation, which accounts for 66 percent; ticketing (12 percent) and back office expenses (20 percent). In agencies in New York, Washington and other major cities, he said, the total cost is about $35, making the cost of taking the reservation about $20. In a secondary city, he said, the total cost would be $20, making the reservation cost $14. Using inmates would put the reservation cost somewhere between $3 and $15, probably $5 to $6.
In any case, Mr. Bohan said, his company is offering corporations that are its clients a 50 percent reduction in reservation costs if they use the prisoner staff.
Mr. Barkley of the South Carolina Corrections Department said that the contract with the Bohans paid the prison system $3 for each hour of work. The inmates get 50 cents an hour until they have 160 hours of experience; $1 an hour from 161 to 320 hours and a maximum of $1.50 an hour after that. The remainder goes for administrative expenses, he said.
The program's software was designed in conjunction with Sabre, the computer reservations system owned by A.M.R., the owner of American Airlines. Mr. Bohan said that such costs, as well as the cost of two on-site supervisors, security guards and carpeting for the computer room, meant that Omega would not make a profit from the project for the first two years. He expects the present complement of 12 women to rise to 50 working on two shifts.
Norma Breeden of Omega Travel School has been in charge of the training at Leath. On Oct. 23, she gave the first part of a final exam to 12 students who had taken 250 hours of training. The results were encouraging, she said: seven got A's, three got B's and two got high C's.
Mr. Bohan said that his company had heard from prison officials in Arizona, Arkansas, Kansas, Minnesota and Wisconsin who were eager to try out such a project. He said that he was also interested in developing a similar program for state tourist boards and European countries' tourist offices in the United States.
Prisoners have been used for some years to respond to inquiries to 800 numbers used by state tourist boards in the United States. This involves no purchases, so security problems do not exist. Some state tourist officials have complained privately that tax revenue in their state is sent to another state to pay for prison labor because the second state submitted a lower bid.
Steve Loucks, director of communications for the American Society of Travel Agents in Washington, said that the organization had no position on the use of prison labor. The issue had not been put before a committee, he said. He said that ASTA was concerned only with the possibility that prisoners might retain crucial data about clients.

GRAPHIC: Illustration (Calef Brown)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5072 HARDWARE (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES; TRAVEL WHOLESALERS INTERNATIONAL AB WHOLESALE CO (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES; TRAVEL WHOLESALERS INTERNATIONAL

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; RESERVATIONS (AIRLINES, HOTELS, ETC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES TRAVEL AGENTS (96%); PRISONS (91%); WHOLESALERS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); AIRLINES (88%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (78%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); MEN (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); 

PERSON: BOHAN, GLORIA; BOHAN, DAN; WADE, BETSY JOHN MAJOR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



214 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 34; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Word & Image;
The Postwar Trance

BYLINE: By Max Frankel 

 BODY:
Washington and its media monitors went into a mild tizzy when the President fired his new weapon, the line-item veto, to shoot down 50 of the hundreds of Pentagon projects that Congress habitually spreads among influential members. Although Bill Clinton was careful to spare the rich contracts destined for the hometowns of the Republican leaders of the House and Senate, many of their troops have come to regret arming the White House with the power to unbundle their appropriations.
This commotion, however, has had a perverse effect. It focused attention on $391 million in Pentagon spending even as the major media again largely ignored the $260 billion that Washington blithely approves for the military each year. That sum, which is justified as necessary to fight two wars simultaneously on opposite sides of the globe, exceeds the defense spending of all other major military nations combined. And billions more will be needed if the President prevails with his plan to bring the former Communist nations of eastern Europe into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. 
 The frequent reminder from Tip O'Neill, the late Speaker, that all politics is local may explain why our politicians and news media get so excited about a few weapons contracts and base closings. But strangely, not even the enormous tax consequences of the military budget evoke much interest in the limp arguments put forward in its defense. The Pentagon insists that the United States must be poised to invade and defeat "rogue nations" like Iraq and North Korea at the same time. For nearly a decade, that has been the unshakable conclusion of what passes for the Government's "Quadrennial Defense Review."
Despite the disappearance of the Soviet Union in 1991, our generals and admirals have insisted that there must be no cuts in the number of our ground divisions, Air Force fighter wings or aircraft-carrier battle groups. That is a quarter-trillion-dollar premise but it arouses virtually no discussion in the popular press or on television. Even The New York Times has carried only one news account, one editorial and one Op-Ed article about the two-war doctrine this year. No one in Government felt any pressure to respond to that Op-Ed challenge by Lawrence J. Korb of the Brookings Institution, a former Assistant Secretary of Defense in the Reagan years. He recalled that throughout the 40 years of cold war, the United States never needed to fight more than one war at a time -- in Korea, Vietnam and the Persian Gulf. Nor did it ever prepare, as a matter of doctrine, for more than one and a half wars. Moreover, the military strength of both Iraq and North Korea has seriously deteriorated since the birth of the two-war strategy. And while there exist other rogue states, like Libya, they hardly pose the kind of threat that requires us to be ready for instant war.
At the root of the Pentagon's reasoning lies a portentous but rarely examined assertion: "If the United States were to forgo its ability to defeat aggression in more than one theater at a time, our standing as a global power, as the security partner of choice and the leader of the international community would be called into question."
Really? And reasonably so?
The only vigorous debate of that proposition occurs nowadays in academic journals. For example, Mark Danner argues in a current issue of World Policy Journal that the entire American Government is "marooned in the cold war." As evidence, he cites the Clinton Administration's rush to enlarge the membership of nato and contends that the United States is "encumbered with a policy that imposes upon the world a mindless hegemony, a predominance for its own sake." He thinks our leaders simply cannot shed the heavy armor that shaped and sustained American diplomacy for half a century.
Maybe Danner exaggerates. But it is hard not to wonder with him what we are doing with 100,000 troops in the middle of a united Germany, defending a "border" that no longer exists. It is even harder to rebut Danner and the other critics of President Clinton's rash rush to bring Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic into nato, with Slovenia, Romania and the Baltic states next in line. It will immediately cost billions to modernize the armies of those poor nations. More expensively still, they will rekindle anti-Western chauvinism in Russia. The Russians are the undeniable target of this nato enlargement, and their resentment can have dangerous consequences.
The truth is that nato has outlived its purpose -- which, in a famous aphorism, was to keep the United States in Europe, the Germans down and the Russians out. Now that the Germans are very much up and the Russians are embracing capitalism, an anti-Soviet and to some extent anti-German military alliance is hardly viable.
The old goal of promoting stability and democracy in Europe would be much more sensibly served by integrating the former Communist nations into the economic and financial institutions of western Europe, notably the European Union. But as Danner points out, the French and others rejected that course; they did not want to make their farmers compete with the cheaper produce of the east. So the United States is hastening to compensate with billions of dollars in annual military subsidies and a patently incredible promise to protect Warsaw, Prague, Budapest and later even Ljubljana with its nuclear umbrella.
Even if they were wise, these policies would need to be recognized as fateful and expensive. Yet they are moving toward Congressional ratification like the annual Pentagon budgets, with only the most cursory discussion by the national press or commercial networks. If our Government remains marooned in the cold war, it is surely because our press has lapsed into a postwar trance, grown bored and oblivious to the truly great issues of the moment.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lou Beach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); GULF STATES (54%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (75%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); GULF STATES (54%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (75%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VETO (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); COLD WAR (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



215 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 10; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Photography Firm Grows With 3 Partners

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER 

 BODY:
TAKE three photographers younger than 30, add a fatherly boss and a local bank, then back off and watch a new enterprise grow. But the company, Bernstein Associates Photographers, is not new; it was started by Herman Bernstein in the mid-1950's and in 1970 began specializing in the construction photography it is known for today.
Alan Kazin, a partner in the enterprise, said the move seven years ago to acquire Mr. Bernstein's company was a bold one. 
 "Although nothing was said, we had a feeling that Mr. Bernstein was thinking about retiring," Mr. Kazin said. "I felt comfortable initiating the subject because of our relationship. Mr. Bernstein was not only our boss, he was our mentor."
Laurie Donald, who is now president, said: "I never worked for anyone else. My first job out of college in 1984 was with Mr. Bernstein. He started in business working out of the basement of his house in Yonkers, doing commercial portraits, which eventually grew into a construction specialty. My jobs ran the gamut, starting with photo dark-room manager, ending up a photographer. It was a terrific learning experience."
The third partner, Mary Lou Pizzutello, agreed. "Mr. Bernstein was a terrific teacher," she said. "I went to work for him in 1985, starting on the lowest rung, which was washing negatives. I worked my way up to the point where one day, when a photographer failed to show up, Mr. Bernstein sent me out on the job. And I've been a commercial photographer ever since."
As for Mr. Kazin, he said, "I wanted to be a photographer from the time I was 5 when my dad gave me a Polaroid swinger for my birthday."
And his interest never flagged. After he earned a bachelor's degree in photography from the Rochester Institute of Technology, he took what he described as an entry-level job as an assistant dark- room studio manager.
"Then in 1986 I answered an ad and became a full-time photographer, doing construction and architectural shoots for Mr. Bernstein," he said. "It's terrific work. Much of what we do is for construction firms on a contract basis. We specialize in shooting a series of progress photos starting from preconstruction through topping out and ribbon cutting. Aerial shots, surveys and shooting under special conditions, like in sewers, are all part of the job."
Competition for such assignments, he added, is fierce. "Fees for a progress series range from $1,000 to as high as $40,000, so the jobs, which can last for as much as four years, like any piece of a construction project, will go out for bid."
And because some construction projects must use a certain quota of women or minority-owned businesses as subcontractors, the partners were able to have their company designated by the state as a Women's Business Enterprise.
"We figured it would give us a small advantage, a better shot at getting new business and a help in securing our position in the industry," Ms. Donald said.
Ms. Pizzutello said: "That was the easy part. The hard part was going from employees to owners. When Mr. Bernstein agreed to sell us the business for $500,000, we had to come up with a down payment."
The problem was, Mr. Kazin said: "None of us had any money. Mr. Bernstein helped us out by taking back notes as a down payment."
The three buyers then got in touch with a business adviser, Nancy Cochran, at the New York Small Business Center in White Plains.
"With Nancy's advice and guidance, we put together a business-development plan." Ms. Donald said. "It took a year to get it into shape, but we couldn't have done it without her expertise."
Obtaining a bank loan for operating capital was a major stumbling block.
"Two banks turned us down cold, and a third kept us dangling for weeks," Mr. Kazin said. "It was a local bank, Hudson Valley, headquartered in Yonkers, that had faith in us and made us a loan."
And that faith has been justified, Ms. Donald said.
"After three years we were able to pay off the bank loan, money we had borrowed from our families and Mr. Bernstein's notes as well," she said. Mr. Kazin recalled: "But the first year was tough. We worked long, long hours, but we weren't making any money. Our timing was bad. In 1990 the construction industry was hit hard by the recession. We didn't even announce that we bought the business for fear of losing clients. Two of them left but eventually came back."
But the partners agreed that the most difficult task they faced during their first year was having to cut the payroll.
In the last seven years, the partners say they have not only learned how to run a business but also how to make one grow. "We've built on the Bernstein reputation for quality and expanded our operation to cover the area from Boston to Washington," Mr. Kazin said. "We've also added new services such as industrial and aerial video. Our clients are the leading architectural, engineering and contracting firms in the East, firms like Tishman Construction Company of New York."
Thomas Hoban, vice president of the Tishman Technology Company in Elmsford, a division of the Tishman Construction Company, said the change of ownership was seamless. "They have always been very good and accommodating," Mr. Hoban said. "For example, recently we needed a construction photo document from 1987 to show a client. We didn't have it. But Bernstein found it in their archives."
Documentation of the work on Grand Central Terminal is also one of the company's projects. Other jobs include documenting the New York Hospital expansion, the rebuilding of the World Trade Center, the York Hunter construction job for Avalon Properties, the Willow project in Mamaroneck, and the New Rochelle Safety Building, which is under construction.
Last month Bernstein Associates moved from Mount Vernon into new headquarters in Harrison, doubling the amount of space. "We now have 12 full-time employees, and we're excited about reaching the $1 million mark in sales for the first time ever," Ms. Donald said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laurie Donald of Bernstein Associates Photographers, at New Rochelle construction site. (Susan Harris for The New York Times); Roosevelt East in Manhattan for Lehrer McGovern Bovis. (Bernstein Associates Photographers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BERNSTEIN ASSOCIATES PHOTOGRAPHERS

ORGANIZATION: BERNSTEIN ASSOCIATES PHOTOGRAPHERS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



216 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 15; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Temps, the New Wave in the Work Force

BYLINE: By ROBIN F. DEMATTIA 

 BODY:
KATHERINE LAMPOS often feels the urge to go whitewater rafting in New Mexico or visit a national park. So she does, for a week or two. That's O.K. with her boss, because Ms. Lampos, 52 years old, doesn't have one. She's a self-employed "professional temp," one of a growing number of people who work project by project rather than the classic 40-hour week.
"I may not get rich," says Ms. Lampos, who has worked 10 to 11 months each year since 1988, "but I'm earning a living and I'm never bored. If I take a permanent position, I can't leave when I want to leave or take a day off when I want to. This is a life style that you can become accustomed to." 
 Temporary workers today range from administrative support personnel to graphic designers, accountants, lawyers, marketing specialists and executives. The industry has grown from $20.5 billion in 1991 to a record $43.6 billion in 1996,and the trend is expected to continue.
"The industry is continuing to grow because it makes a lot of economic and life style sense," says Catherine Candland, founder and chief executive officer of Advantage Staffing Services, headquartered in Stamford. "When I first got into the staffing field 13 years ago, we were placing people in positions because someone was out sick or on maternity leave. The business world was not really adept at the idea of bringing in talent that was temporary. But the caliber of person doing temporary work is much more diverse now than it was then. Many people who are between 22 and 50 are starting to recognize that your career is something that you manage. And I think businesses certainly see the advantages of bringing talent in for certain projects and having a leaner core staff."
Advantage's temporary workers, who are called associates, provide temporary, interim and alternative staffing for small companies to ones in the Fortune 100. With offices throughout the state as well as in New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, the District of Columbia and Texas, the company reports 35 percent growth annually since its founding and projects $100 million in revenues this year. That would make it the largest company in the state owned by a woman. Ms. Candland has been on the receiving end of all sorts of recognition, including a spot on Fortune's list of America's 40 Smartest Entrepreneurs. She attributes part of her drive and success to her upbringing.
Her father being in the Air Force, the family moved a lot, and "When you move a lot when you're growing up, you tend to adapt to situations and to some degree are less reluctant to take risks," says Ms. Candland. Ms. Candland, armed with a degree in political science and set on a career in public policy, became disenchanted with her dream when she helped her Dad run for a Senate seat in Utah; he was unsuccessful. "I started to look for other playing fields were you could make a difference without so many obstacles," she said.
While living in the Washington, D.C., area, where she founded Advantage, Ms. Candland discovered an appreciation for finding temporary employment alternatives for people. "It really combines my public policy motivation with being able to do something that's tangible for people as far as career development," she says.
Advantage was one of the first temporary staffing firms to offer benefits -- health and dental plans, life insurance, 401(k) retirement plan, paid holidays, vacations, and free skills training -- to its associates as well as full-time employees. It also organized itself by practice groups (like financial services, consumer products), to better track industry trends, anticipate clients' needs and place associates in fields where they have experience. The firm boasts an associate retention rate 600 percent better than the industry average (nine months, compared to two to six weeks).
Advantage, says Bruce Donatuti, director of employment and employee relations at Oxford Health Plans in Norwalk, "focuses on customer service and seems to be able to find some of the best folks that are out there."
When Mr. Donatuti recently reduced the number of temporary staffing firms he used from 20 to 3, Advantage remained on his list. He says companies like Oxford will continue to need temporary staffing services, despite what may look like added expense.
"We pay a fairly generous hourly rate to our temps," he explained, "but if you control the use of temp staff carefully, if you just hire for what you need, like seasonal work or during peak hours, that's where you save money."
Mr. Donatuti admits that the skill level of temps can vary, especially among recent college graduates whose "reading, writing and arithmetic levels are lower than 20 or 30 years ago." But he likes hiring people who move into the temp field by choice, who don't want to work full-time because they have family issues or are at the end of their career and want to slow down a bit.
"You've got a different cadre of people who want to be temps now," he says. "They want to be part of the contingent work force and that's a fast-growing part of the work force. It used to be 6 percent and now it's probably close to 20 percent."
Megan Ferrell, for example, an art director and graphic designer in Darien, runs her own business from home after years of working for publishing and insurance firms in New York City. She also works for Advantage to supplement her income and gain access to more companies.
"In the beginning I felt like once I got to know a job, I had to leave," Ms. Ferrell says. "It's like your first day on the job constantly. But I will never be afraid to start a new job. You get better at adapting quickly."
How do corporate employees treat her? "I thought people wouldn't talk to the freelancer," she said but she found herself treated "like one of the crowd." And because she works at home, Ms. Ferrell enjoys going on-site with clients, where she can chat with other people, be exposed to different projects and learn new skills.
Some temporary workers also consider these assignments a testing ground for future employment, and the companies use that to their advantage. "Using a temp is an opportunity to check out some people," says Christine V. Walchuk, human resources manager at the Perrier Group of America in Greenwich. "That's the greatest advantage of using temps; hiring someone who has worked here a few months and we've had that honeymoon period already."
Advantage Staffing Services helps make that transition possible by screening associates. At client companies, "We interview department heads and put numeric values around attitude, reliability and initiative," explains Nancy Thomas, manager of client services at Advantage. "Then everybody who applies at Advantage goes through a similar set of questions and gets a work style guide numeric value. It puts a science around something that is such an intangible."
 
The Numbers and Market Changes
THE numbers are impressive: in 1996 total revenues of temporary help services grew 11.2 percent to a record $43.6 billion, or 6.9 percent of total non-farm employment, compared with just 1.3 percent in 1991.
Average daily employment rose 6.9 percent to 2.3 million and gross wages paid to temporary employees grew 12.8 percent to $31.5 billion. Further growth is expected to show up in the 1997 figures.
Within the industry, the traditional office/clerical sector fell from 47.6 percent of payroll in 1991 to 38.7 percent in 1996, while industrial positions rose from 27.4 percent to 31.8 percent and professional assignments grew from 2.4 percent to 6.3 percent.
"Companies are really struggling to find the talent they need," said Catherine Candland, founder and head of Advantage Staffing Services in Stamford. "And there are fewer workers coming into the marketplace, after the phenomenon of the baby boomers." She adds that many women are starting their own businesses, too, lessening the pool of available workers.
"When we started, probably 95 percent of associates were women," Ms. Candland says. "There are more men now because of the jobs we are filling -- graphics, creative artists, systems programmers. And men are doing interim and temporary work for the same reasons women always did -- it's a great way to identify career opportunities, research a new industry, get inside a company and see what the opportunities are, and have balance in their lives so you don't have to work 60 to 80 hours week."
She also finds that recent college graduates are willing to take less money for a temporary opportunity, if it gives them more balance in their lives. "They are not necessarily less ambitious," she says, "but I think this new attitude is healthy."
Ms. Candland also anticipates companies allowing associates to work from home or remote offices. "The information technology initiatives have made it so people can work from almost anywhere. We're seeing a combination of 80 percent of assignments at the client's site and 20 percent being done from another site.
"When clients consider people spending an hour or more to get to work, that's a lot of human capital tied on up the roads. They want to harness it and get productivity out of it." ROBIN DEMATTIA

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Greenwich last month, Megan Ferrell, an associate at Advantage Staffing Services, met with prospective employers. Jeff Shake and Antoinette Gmernicki, also temporary workers, with samples of associate portfolios. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT LABOR FORCE (90%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); TRENDS (76%); MATERNITY LEAVE (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); BOATING & RAFTING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (68%); AIR FORCES (65%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%); 

PERSON: DEMATTIA, ROBIN F MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



217 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 21; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: New at the Venerable Bush-Holley House

BYLINE: By ALBERTA EISEMAN 

 BODY:
NOTHING is left of the old tidal mill, the shipyard, warehouse, stores, fishing fleet and packet boats that formed the Lower Landing at Cos Cob in Greenwich.
 Once a thriving small harbor on Strickland Brook -- an inlet off the Mianus River less than half a mile from Long Island Sound -- the Lower Landing was a hub of 18th-century commerce but fell victim to a changing economy and to a fire that destroyed the waterfront buildings in 1899. 
 And yet its spirit lingers, captured on canvas by a group of artists now known as American Impressionists, who rented rooms in a rambling old home across the street known now as the Bush-Holley House.
The 1730's former rooming house was declared a National Historic Landmark for its role as one of the first Impressionist art colonies in the United States. In 1957 it was bought by the Historical Society of the Town of Greenwich, which operates it as a house-museum along with several smaller structures that form an evocative historic complex.
Next Saturday at 1 P.M. the Historical Society will officially unveil its most recent acquisition, the Bush-Holley Visitor Center, a former commercial building adjacent to the old house. More than just the usual place to view a video or pick up information, the newly restored and renovated structure houses three exhibition galleries: one tracing the development of the Lower Landing, one devoted to an interactive program for families and a small space that will be available for exhibitions.
The cluster of buildings was particularly attractive on a sparkling fall day. Aside from the "dear old house" itself, as the artists once called it, there is the barn where they painted and held classes and exhibitions, the new Visitor Center and the archives, built just 10 years ago but reflective of an earlier style. It is not hard to see why two generations of painters -- Childe Hassam, John Henry Twachtman, Theodore Robinson, J. Alden Weir, Elmer MacRae and others -- were so taken with the area.
Despite the concrete bridge that carries Interstate 95 across the Mianus River, dwarfing the gentle landscape around it, the river retains a bucolic look and sailboats at their moorings still enchant.
The old clapboard house -- built by the Bush family, landowners and merchants, and purchased in 1882 by the far less prosperous Holleys -- is friendly and attractive, furnished with Connecticut antiques and Holley family pieces and filled with oil paintings, etchings, watercolors, pastels and woodcuts by the artists who summered there year after year. One painter never left at all: Elmer MacRae arrived in 1887 to study with John Twachtman, married the Holleys' daughter, Constant, and lived there for the rest of his life.
The building the artists called "the house next door," the new Visitor Center, was the site of the post office by the time they were in residence. Justus Luke Bush had the home built around 1805 as a dry goods store and storehouse. The first tableau in the sound and light show that orients visitors presents him in conversation with his partner as they bemoan the hard times that followed the panic of 1837. Indeed, Mr. Bush was bankrupt at his death, despite the fine house and the thriving business he had inherited from his father and grandfather.
The next tableau depicts the building as post office 60 years later, with the postmaster gossiping with a patron about the eccentric artists living next door.
Visitors also see the portrayal of a conversation between 8-year-old Clarissa MacRae, granddaughter of the owners of the Holley House, and Childe Hassam, who painted her portrait, now hanging in the entrance hall of the house. "The exhibit will prepare visitors for a tour of the Bush-Holley House itself," said Karen Blanchfield, the Historical Society's curator of exhibitions and Collections. "They will already have information about the art colony as well as the Bush family and will be able to link the two periods."
The interactive program for families will have five stations, each offering hands-on displays emphasizing local history or art.
The opening show is entitled "The Lost Landscape of Cos Cob" and was guest curated by Dr. Susan Larkin, who is an authority on Connecticut Impressionist art and the Cos Cob Colony.
The exhibition consists of a dozen paintings and works on paper by Childe Hassam, Elmer MacRae, Kerr Eby and Charles Ebert.
The works, lent by private collectors and area museums, reflect the landscape -- both natural and manmade -- the way the members of the art colony knew it.
"Now that we have a climate controlled space to display things," said Ms. Blanchfield, referring to the handsome, brightly lighted section of the Visitor Center known as the William Hegarty Gallery, "it will allow us to borrow more works from other museums."
The Bush-Holley Historic Site and the Visitor Center, at 39 Strickland Road in the Cos Cob section of Greenwich, are open from noon to 4 P.M. Wednesday through Friday; 11 A.M. to 4 P.M. on Saturdays and 1 to 4 P.M. on Sundays. Hours will change after Jan. 1.
Admission to the Visitor Center is free of charge. Tickets for the guided tour of the Bush-Holley House Museum are $4, $3 for elderly people and free to children under 12.
To celebrate the grand opening of the Visitor Center next Saturday and Sunday, the public is invited to tour both buildings at no charge.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, a rendering of the Bush-Holley House and its new Visitor Center, at left. Left: "The Village Square" by Elmer Livingston Macrae. (Illustration by Robert E. McGinnis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HISTORICAL SOCIETY OF GREENWICH (CONN)

ORGANIZATION: HISTORICAL SOCIETY OF GREENWICH (CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: COS COB (CONN); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ART; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES SHIPBUILDING (90%); HISTORY (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FAMILY (76%); PAINTING (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (75%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); HISTORIC SITES (74%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); FIRES (71%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (67%); 

PERSON: EISEMAN, ALBERTA

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



218 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: The View From: Stamford;
For This Audience, Nothing but World Scale Itself Will Do

BYLINE: By BILL SLOCUM 

 BODY:
THE three men pored over papers as they sat amid the plush splendor of the Tara Stamford Hotel lobby one recent Sunday afternoon, trying to figure out how they were going to mesh their presentations.
"I was going to talk about Hong Kong as being the canary in the mine shaft in regard to China policy," explained Douglas H. Paal, an Asia specialist in the Reagan and Bush Administrations who now heads the Asia Pacific Policy Center. 
 James D. Seymour, a senior research scholar at the Columbia University East Asian Institute, appeared slightly chagrined. "I use the canary metaphor in my address, too," he said.
David Tsui, director of the Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office, flashed an impish grin: "You two can speak first, then I'll come in and clarify any misimpressions."
The three were not appearing before a Senate Committee, a board of directors or even "Nightline." Their audience was the Forum for World Affairs in Stamford, a group with arguably no more influence on American foreign policy than the average voter. The topic was China and Hong Kong, always a big draw according to the forum's director, Barbara Wille Chisolm.
The forum has been in existence for 51 years, and among its guests have been Eleanor Roosevelt, Barbara Bush, George Mitchell, David Gergen, Henry Kissinger and Madeleine K. Albright (before she became Secretary of State).
What draws such distinguished speakers? "We don't pay," Ms. Chisolm said. "What prompts them to travel is that they want to share their message, and get that message across to a very remarkable audience."
There are fewer than 600 members of the Stamford Forum, but among them are diplomats, reporters and many business people.
Mr. Paal, Mr. Seymour and Mr. Tsui faced a battery of questions at a recent session moderated by Kay J. Maxwell, a vice president of the Stamford-based International Executive Service Corps and a director of the forum. Among the questions: What was the relationship between the Chinese takeover of Hong Kong and the economic crises in Malaysia and Singapore? What are the implications of the recent Chinese Communist Party summit on Hong Kong's future? And in 10 years, will Hong Kong look more like China or vice versa?
When Mr. Tsui spoke of improvements at Hong Kong's main airport ("When you come to Hong Kong next year, you will land someplace less exciting.") there was knowing laughter throughout the room.
Mitchell Krauss of Stamford, a reporter for CBS Radio, can often be found chasing prospective guests to appear at the forum, of which he is a chairman. Many forum members are ordinary individuals, many of them older and retired, who find the forum a means of getting a handle on world events.
"I do think in this age of live news programming and the Internet, people still are hungry for personal contact," Mr. Krauss said. "It harkens back to a simpler time."
Ginger Heller, a board member from Greenwich, is vice president of European sales for a medical supply company. "The essence of the forum's appeal for me is the little things you hear," she said. For example, when the Soviet Premier Khrushchev's son Sergei, a fellow at Brown University, appeared, he told of how his father had once demanded the building of missiles like those of the United States -- but only two of them, to be shown off at the May Day parade and exacerbate American fears of a missile gap. "I can not tell you how many little, wonderful things like that you pick up off the cuff," she said.
Derek G. Boothby of Riverside helped investigate Iraq's nuclear capabilities for the United Nations after the end of the Gulf War. Now the director of the Europe division at the United Nations Department of Political Affairs, he views the forum, where he is a director, as a needed corrective to the American tendency of "switching off" from foreign affairs. "The forum is an ideal focal point to get people who should be interested to listen to international affairs lectures, to focus their interest," he said.
The Stamford Forum is one of 80 organizations that belong to the Washington, D.C.-based National Council of World Affairs Organizations. They include the Foreign Policy Association of Manhattan and the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations as well as smaller groups in places like Savannah, Ga., and Tyler, Texas.
Jerry W. Leach, the national director for the umbrella group, notes "Stamford's track record is one of the best in the country." Stamford Forum members like to think their reputation is in part due to the fact they have been around so long. The group's genesis was in 1946, when the United Nations was looking at a large chunk of the Greenwich back country for its headquarters. The issue split local opinion, with some neighbors favoring the idea of being "the world's capital" and others lamenting the likely loss of the area's bucolic character.
Wilbur Miller of Stamford was 31 when he founded the forum. "The United Nations was only a year old then," he remembered. "We were concerned about the larger question -- not where it was going to be, but whether it was going to be."
The first Forum function was nothing less than a three-day seminar broadcast nationwide on "America's Town Meeting of the Air," which Mr. Miller, a retired chemist, called the "60 Minutes" of its day. Mrs. Roosevelt was a special guest.
The United Nations' eventual placement in Manhattan ended the geographical controversy, but the forum went on, debating the wisdom of the Marshall Plan and, in the 1950's, the fate of Hungary's opposition to Communist rule. Then-Secretary of State John Foster Dulles "seemed to run foreign policy out of his homburg," Mr. Miller said.
Beyond the need for a United Nations, the forum was always careful never to take sides on an issue, Mr. Miller said. That non-partisan flavor helped to attract notable speakers. Frank Altschul, an investment banker from Stamford, was one of several members who helped round up Henry Kissinger and another then-professor, Zbigniew Brzezinski (who later became President Carter's national security advisor) for a discussion in 1966.
When pressed, members agree that like lower Fairfield County in general, the forum has more Republicans than Democrats. But Democrats hold some key positions, too, like Albert Sims of Greenwich, a chairman with his wife, Ruth, of the forum's great decisions panel and a former Kennedy Administration member who played a role in the formation of the Peace Corps.
Partisanship seldom intrudes on forum discussion, though. "We're not confrontational," Ms. Heller said.
Purpose is another matter. As Howard Katzen of Westport, a former forum chairman, noted, "what I'm really interested in is getting some speakers in, getting some debate."
The Stamford Forum has expanded its reach over the past decade, including a twice-yearly students' forum. Perhaps the biggest step was the Ambassadors Forum: private, off-the-record discussions with visiting dignitaries. "It's something of a joke," Mr. Katzen said of the off-the-record designation. "Often they are going to say the same thing they always say."
Ms. Chisolm noted that public seminars on the Middle East, the future of Russia, and the role of women in international affairs would be taking place. "We don't want to just preach to the converted," she said. "We'd like to reach more people, to make them aware of global issues and foreign affairs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a session of the Forum for World Affairs last month, Kay J. Maxwell was joined by, left to right, David Tsui of Hong Kong, James D. Seymour and Douglas H. Paal. (Michael J. Doolittle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (97%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (93%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (71%); 

COMPANY: FORUM FOR WORLD AFFAIRS; NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WORLD AFFAIRS ORGANIZATIONS COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORUM FOR WORLD AFFAIRS; NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WORLD AFFAIRS ORGANIZATIONS COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); HONG KONG (97%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (93%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (71%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); POLITICS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); 

PERSON: CHISOLM, BARBARA WILLE; ROOSEVELT, ELEANOR (1884-1962); KISSINGER, HENRY A (DR); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); SLOCUM, BILL RONALD REAGAN (75%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



219 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 34; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND GUIDE

BYLINE: By BARBARA DELATINER 

 BODY:

FREE CHOICES
TODAY "Home and the River," a new American opera set against the backdrop of the Civil War, will be staged at 3 P.M. in the Shear Theater on the Selden campus of Suffolk Community College. Performed by the Encompass Music Theater, a Manhattan-based troupe of 14 professional singers, the musical drama, with a score by George Quincy and libretto by Benjamin Barber, tells of a Kansas rancher who goes South to fight for the Confederacy (451-4163). 
 TOMORROW Stuart E. Eizenstat, the Under Secretary of State for Economic, Business and Agricultural Affairs, discusses "Jewish History Remembered: 50 Years Later" at 8 P.M. at Temple Emanuel of Great Neck (482-5701).
THURSDAY The East End Arts Council's series of Harvest Gospel Concerts gets under way at 8 P.M. at St. Peter's Lutheran Church in Greenport. And before the 100-member choir, under Mary Anne McElroy's direction, calls it a season it will also sing at the First Baptist Church in Bridgehampton on Friday and the Friendship Baptist Church in Flanders on Saturday (727-0900).
"Ian Had a Little Lamb: The Cloning of Dolly" is the subject of a seminar at 8 P.M. at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory's Banbury Conference Center. Dr. Jan Witkowski, the center's director, will lecture on the implications of the recent sheep cloning in Scotland (367-8455).
SATURDAY The latest class of dogs and their disabled owners graduates from the Canine Companions for Independence program, and their graduation will be celebrated at 7 P.M. at the East Memorial Elementary School in Farmingdale. The public is invited to see the new partnerships begin (694-6938).

'LITTLE MOZART'
Dubbed the "little Mozart" when he was discovered playing classic music on an electric keyboard in the New York City subway system, David Allakhverdov has now graduated to concert halls. The 14-year-old pianist, born in Uzbekistan, performs Beethoven, Chopin and Liszt at 3 P.M. at the Church of the Open Door in Southold in the Arts in Southold Town series (734-7696).

VETERANS DAY
Although some communities will stage parades today and Tuesday honoring those who served in the armed forces, Veterans Day on the Island will be relatively low key. Today there is a special service at 2 P.M. at the Long Island National Cemetery in Pinelawn (454-4949), while on Tuesday the Calverton National Cemetery will mark the holiday at 1 P.M. (727-5410). On a less somber note, the Museums at Stony will admit veterans free from 10 A.M.to 5 P.M. Tuesday and charge all others $1 (751-0066).

DRUCKER ANNIVERSARY
At 19, Stanley Drucker, aclarinetist from Massapequa, was the youngest member of the New York Philharmonic when the orchestra hired him. That was 50 years ago and to celebrate his milestone, the American Chamber Ensemble is putting Mr. Drucker, now the Philharmonics's principal clarinetist, to work today.
He will join his wife, Naomi Drucker, another clarinetist who is the co-director of the ensemble with Blanch Abram, pianist; Eriko Sato and Deborah Wong, violinists; Lois Martin, violist, and Chris Finckel, cellist, in a program of music by Bruch, Copland, Kodaly and Poulenc at 3 P.M. in the Monroe Lecture Center Theater on Hofstra University's Hempstead campus (463-6644).

FLYING IN
The Flying Karamazov Brothers land at the Staller Center on the Stony Brook campus of the State University today at 7 P.M. Their latest entry, "Sharps and Accidentals," should give the juggler-comedians ample opportunity to display their zany skills (632-7230).

DUNES BY MOONLIGHT
Take a moonlight stroll through the Walking Dunes in Amagansett, which were the living set for "The Sheik." Group for the South Fork naturalists lead the way in a two-mile hike at 7 P.M. Friday (537-1400).

BOTANICAL TOUR
Are any of the vistas and plants captured on canvas by the Moran family about a century ago still around today? Eric Lamont, the president of the Long Island Botanical Society, will try to find out when he leads a botanical tour Saturday exploring "Nature in the Art of the Moran Family." Held in conjunction with "The Moran Family Legacy," the current exhibition at Guild Hall in East Hampton, the tour will examine landscapes the artists saw, investgating growth patterns then and now and searching for evidence of a continuation of the plant life. The tour, under the auspices of the South Fork Natural History Society, is from 10 A.M. to noon and leaves from Guild Hall (267-7944).

SALIERI STARS
The Rockaway-Five Towns Symphony Orchestra begins its season Saturday with something relatively new -- Antonio Salieri's rarely heard Concerto for Flute, Oboe and Orchestra. This work by the composer, who figured in Mozart's life, is said to be so infrequently played that, according to the orchestra, this performance might "qualify as an American premiere." Mary Shaw, the orchestra's principal futist, and Heather Donnelly, the principal oboist, are featured. Works by Brahms and Shostakovish complete the program, conducted by Raffael Adler, at 8 P.M. at the Lawrence Woodmere Academy in Woodmere (239-7828).

'VENERABLE TUNES'
The Hofstra Collegium Musicum is another outfit interested in little known music. In fact, it was founded in 1969 by Dr. William Hettrick to dig up old and obscure music. Primarily students, the troupe, under Dr. Hettrick's baton, offers "That Old Sweet Song: A Concert of Venerable Tunes in Divers Settings" at 8 P.M. Saturday at St. John's Lutheran Church in Williston Park. Among those "tunes" to be performed by oboes, horns, bassoons and serpent, an instrument built by Dr. Hettrick, is an anonymous divertimento once attributed to Haydn and later used by Brahms for his "Variations on a Theme of Haydn" (463-6644).

'SONGWRITERS' DAY'
Since the town of Riverhead has declared Saturday "Songwriters' Day" non-professional musicians who would like to be discovered get to strut their stuff for fame and cash prizes in the "Riverhead Songwriters' Showdown." The benefit for the Vail-Leavitt Music Hall is at 8 P.M. Saturday at Polish Hall (727-0900). BARBARA DELATINER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); OPERA (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); MUSIC (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (86%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (72%); ANIMAL CLONING (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); CLONING (66%); DOGS (64%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (64%); ISLANDS & REEFS (60%); 

PERSON: DELATINER, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



220 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 4; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: L.I. Potato Packager and Idaho at War

BYLINE: By RAMIN P. JALESHGARI 

 BODY:
MORE than 50 years ago, Henry Pollak started a small business in the Hicksville farmlands selling fertilizer and insecticides to Long Island farmers. In those days, payment was in potatoes and other vegetables, a surplus the Island native turned into profit, packaging and reselling the produce to local retailers.
Now called Hapco Farms, the company is the largest vegetable packager on the East Coast, with more than $100 million in yearly sales, purchasing more than $5 million of produce yearly from ever diminishing local growers and more than 100 million pounds of spuds nationally. 
 But these days potatoes and profits are not Hapco's main concern. The Riverhead-based company is trying to fend off allegations by the Idaho Potato Commission that it misused the agency's trademark and bagged multistate potatoes as Idaho-grown.
The commission bases its allegations upon information provided by Larsen Farms, an Idaho-based potato grower from whom Hapco purchases 20 million pounds of potatoes yearly.
In order to serve Georgia markets, Hapco began packaging vegetables at Larsen's Atlanta plant two years ago. A Larsen Farms worker took a videotape of other employees dumping Hapco shipments of Wisconsin-labeled potatoes onto an assembly line feeding bags labeled "Idaho grown" and destined for Publix supermarkets. Publix is one of the largest supermarket chains in the South.
Harvey B. Pollak, Henry Pollak's son and the president of Hapco Farms, believes that the video was a setup -- staged at the warehouse after normal business hours -- by Larsen Farms.
"Larsen immediately sent that video to Publix in hopes of getting them to drop Hapco and work directly with them instead." said Mr. Pollak.
A spokesman for Larsen could not be reached for comment.
Publix responded by forwarding the tape to the Idaho Potato Commission, which mobilized to hold a hearing against the Long Island company for trademark violation. Investigations into the matter were conducted on behalf of the commission by its accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche, with the agreement of Hapco Farms.
The Riverhead packager was not prepared for the accounting firm's findings.
"I was shocked when I learned Deloitte's findings and recommendations," said Mr. Pollak, who pointed out that upon first hearing Larsen's charges, his company immediately began to investigate the matter.
"We have a policy of immediate termination for product mislabeling," he said. "And, I state emphatically that the allegations are absolutely untrue,"
Based on Deloitte and Touche's findings, Hapco was forced to pay a $200,000 fine and $65,446 in costs to the commission as settlement. The Idaho-based Larsen Farms paid $10,000 in fines.
Joe Bainton of the firm of Ross & Hardies is Mr. Pollak's lawyer. He says his client paid the fines only because he did not expect a fair hearing before the nine-member Idaho Potato Commission.
Another prominent accounting firm, Grant Thornton, conducted a second investigation and found no evidence of wrongdoing on Hapco's part. According to Grant Thornton, Hapco's packaging procedures were above-board and sales of Idaho-branded potatoes included Idaho potatoes exclusively.
Mr. Pollak hopes to get his company a fair shake before a New York State Supreme Court judge. On March 27, Hapco Farms filed a $25,000,000 lawsuit against Deloitte & Touche, whose findings, Hapco believes, directly related to the punitive measures levied against them.
The suit charges that the national accounting firm conspired with the Idaho Potato Commission and Larsen Farms to besmirch Hapco's name by deliberately providing incorrect information to the commission's hearing committee.
The accounting firm said that "We deny any liability or wrongdoing and will vigorously litigate this matter."
There is some feeling among non-Idaho potato growers and packagers that the Idaho Potato Commission is attempting to secure a monopoly on potato production for its state, even, if necessary, restricting interstate trade by strong-arming non-Idaho sellers out of business.
"'By pushing the Idaho potato so hard, the western markets have killed us out here," said Albee Zawieski, a third-generation East End farmer from Laurel, "I used to raise 650 acres. Now its just 275."
Mr. Zawieski also said that poor potato crops in Idaho over the last few years had put the already-popular Long Island white potatoes in high demand. Produce buyers from locally based Finast/Edwards supermarkets to stores as far away as South America have found that customers prefer the Long Island variety, only buying Idaho, Maine and other spuds when the Long Island area's harvest is over.
"The Idaho Potato Commission has sold a bill of goods to the consumer," said Mr. Pollak. "They've done a great brainwash job convincing the American buyers that Idaho is the one and only name for quality potatoes."
Potato production in Idaho is 13.8 billion pounds, resulting in $2.5 billion dollars in annual revenue and an average of 33 percent of the state's economy. The Idaho Potato Commission stated that it spent 95 percent of its $9 million to $ 10 million annual budget on advertising and promotional activities.
The verified complaint prepared by Mr. Pollak's lawyers, Ross & Hardies states, "The commission and Larsen sought to destroy Hapco's reputation; to ruin Hapco's program, which has become a threat to Idaho potato growers and/or shippers; and ultimately ruin Hapco's entire business operation so that Hapco's customers would become available to Larsen, and/or to other in-state Idaho growers and/or shippers."
The Idaho Potato Commission would not comment on its dealings with Hapco, or accusations that it is attempting to drive non-Idaho potato growers out of business. Nor would the agency provide information on previous enforcement of its "Idaho grown" trademark.
Deloitte & Touche said, "Hapco's attack on Deloitte & Touche's integrity is without basis in fact and appears to be an effort to shift attention from the matters addressed by the Idaho Potato Commission."
Comments on the suit levied against its accounting firm were not forthcoming from the Idaho state agency.
Louis Henry, an investigator with Deloitte & Touche's Boise office, is identified by the suit as preparing a biased report intending to hurt Hapco.
Also stated in the complaint: "Mr. Henry advised Joe Luici, Hapco's chief financial officer , that he was instructed by the commission and its attorney, Pat Kole, to find mislabeling on behalf of Hapco and not on behalf of Larsen 'at any cost.' Obviously, the commission could not allow Deloitte to make adverse findings against the state's largest farmer and the commission's largest financial contributor."
"We could easily move our operations to Idaho and be part of that state's economy," Mr. Pollak said. "We could move anywhere for that matter; nowadays our business depends on computers and phones. But we refuse to let the preferences of another state's agency make us even consider leaving Long Island.
"It's not cheap to operate here, there are more fiscally attractive locations, but this has been our home for three generations."
For Mr. Pollak, the biggest concern is not the fines paid, the close to $1 million in legal fees that the litigation is costing or even regaining the $25 million lost yearly from the dissolution of the Publix account. Instead, he said, "I just want our good reputation back."
Publix supermarkets was Hapco's first major account. The two had been doing business for 35 years, affording the Long Island company 15 percent of its overall business at revenues in excess of $20 million yearly.
At Hapco's Riverhead offices, the staff remains optimistic. Brisk business continues in the company's California, Florida, Massachusetts and Maine branches.
"We enjoy a high status because of the quality of our product and the continuity of supply we offer buyers," said Harvey Pollak's son, Andy Pollak, the company's vice president. "We're not going to give that up so easily."
Both locally and nationally, Hapco was one of the first packagers to tap into national and international markets -- even as far as Russia and South America, thus providing a never-ceasing produce supply to American supermarkets -- the reason why strawberries may be had in December or sweet potatoes in June.
In the coming months, the corporation hopes to branch out into newer aspects of packaging, including mini-vegetables, and convenience vegetables like Hapco's exclusive pre-peeled and blanched potatoes. These tubers are ready-to-use and can be fully cooked in 7 to 10 minutes and will be available in local markets this fall.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harvey Pollack at one of the potato farms he owns in Laurel. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PUSH (OTC) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (81%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (81%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (70%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (70%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (52%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: HAPCO FARMS; IDAHO POTATO COMMISSION DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (81%); PUBLIX SUPER MARKETS INC (70%); MCGUIREWOODS LLP (52%); DELOITTE LLP (52%); IDAHO POTATO COMMISSION (83%); IDAHO POTATO COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAPCO FARMS; IDAHO POTATO COMMISSION IDAHO POTATO COMMISSION (83%); IDAHO POTATO COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO; UNITED STATES (96%); IDAHO, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: POTATOES; LABELING AND LABELS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); POTATO FARMING (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LITIGATION (88%); FINES & PENALTIES (85%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); INSECTICIDES (78%); FERTILIZERS (78%); TRADEMARKS (78%); TRADEMARK INFRINGEMENT (74%); TRADEMARK LAW (74%); RETAILERS (73%); 

PERSON: JALESHGARI, RAMIN P

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



221 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: $12.3 Million Expansion for the College of Aeronautics Includes 10 Classrooms and Lab Space;
A New Hangar, for Planes That Don't Fly

 BODY:
What are a parking lot full of assorted aircraft and a hangar and observation tower under construction doing opposite La Guardia Airport on the other side of the Grand Central Parkway?
They belong to the 65-year-old College of Aeronautics, which offers associate and bachelor of science degrees in such areas as aircraft maintenance, avionics and computerized design. The privately owned school is now in the midst of a $12.3 million expansion on its six-acre site in East Elmhurst, Queens, bounded by Ditmars Boulevard, 90th Street and 23d Avenue. 
 A 35,000-square-foot addition to the college's existing 75,000-square-foot classroom and lab building includes a 5,000-square-foot hangar and a three-story observation tower overlooking La Guardia's runways. The 17 permanently grounded planes, acquired over the years, will get a new parking and engine-checking area next to the hangar.
The extension, which will add 10 classrooms and more lab space, will provide a new main entrance on 90th Street. Work, begun last January, is to be completed next January.
Curved roofs, soaring ceilings, large areas of blue-green glass and a metallic-silver facade create an aeronautical theme, said Robert H. Harker of Nadaskay Kopelson Architects of Morristown, N.J., which designed the addition.
Lab space will include areas for testing aircraft components and for the study of composite materials and hydraulics and pneumatics. A jet-engine lab will be in a separate structure. The new labs will give students access to the latest in aviation technology, said the college's president, John C. Fitzpatrick.
Founded in 1932 in Newark, the college moved to its present campus in 1942. It leased its land and building from New York City until 1994 when it purchased both from the Economic Development Corporation for $3.7 million.
The existing building, which will be renovated, has 17 classrooms, lab space including one with 40 engines for conducting tests on them and a 2,500-square-foot hangar.
The school, which is seeking tax-exempt bonds from the city for the addition, is currently using a line of credit from Chase Manhattan Bank for construction costs.
Students -- 95 percent of them male -- come primarily from the city, 50 percent from Queens alone. Enrollment has grown from 825 full- and part-time students in 1986 to l,102, and is expected to reach 1,500, the school's full capacity, by the turn of the century, Dr. Fitzpatrick said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: New observation tower of College of Aeronautics near La Guardia Airport. (Steve Berman for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: COLLEGE OF AERONAUTICS (NYC) CHASE MANHATTAN BANK NORGE AS (52%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA (52%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK FRANCE (52%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK DELAWARE (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLLEGE OF AERONAUTICS (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); AVIONICS (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



222 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: The 2002 Olympics Are Transforming Salt Lake City

BYLINE: By VERNE KOPYTOFF 

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY

 BODY:
UNTIL a few decades ago, the two dozen or so cities nestled between the flanks of the Wasatch Mountains and shore of the Great Salt Lake subsisted heavily on farming and the area's natural bounty of minerals and timber.
Development in Salt Lake City reflected this reliable but mild economy: a sleepy downtown filled with low-rise storefronts -- some built of brick by early Mormon settlers -- and suburbs with more land devoted to pastures than housing tracts. 
 But now the area finds itself in an unfamiliar position at the center of attention as host of the Winter Olympics in 2002, and preparations for it are accelerating what is already one of the fastest growing local economies in the country.
Not since the silver rush in the 1880's that brought saloons and prospectors' cabins to the surrounding mountain towns has this area been so transformed, this time with office towers, bobsled courses, ice rinks, tract homes and business parks. "Our economy is now broader and more stable than it was 30 years ago," said Brian Hatch, Deputy Mayor of Salt Lake City. "Now we have more service businesses, more tourism, more conventions and more warehousing since we are at a crossroads of the West."
While Olympics construction represents only a fraction of the area's 5 percent annual job growth rate over the last few years, it is at the forefront of nearly every local resident's mind. Outsiders who ask about development in the state typically get a gloating smile followed by a recitation of the dozen or so Olympic venues that have been built or are in various stages of construction and planning. Though the area is rich in ski resorts, about half the sports facilities and infrastructure for the games must be built from scratch at a cost of nearly $1 billion, according to Utah's Office of Planning and Budget. So that the cost of construction is not too burdensome on one entity, most development is being financed by partnerships between the Salt Lake City Olympic Committee and government entities and private companies.
Among the largest projects is a 10,500-seat arena, financed with $7 million from the Olympic Committee and $46 million from the City of West Valley, where the completed arena is situated. During the games, the venue will accommodate short track speed skating races and preliminary ice hockey matches (the finals will be in the Delta Center, home of the Utah Jazz basketball team). Otherwise, it will be used as a concert hall and as a home for the Utah Grizzlies, an International League hockey team that leases the arena for its matches.
Salt Lake City also lacked a place to house nearly 3,500 athletes and an adequate location for the opening and closing ceremonies. The Olympic Committee turned to the University of Utah in Salt Lake City to expand the school's football stadium from 32,000 seats to 50,000, and to build new student dormitories to serve as an athletes' village during the games. The university will pay about $98 million of the total $110 million it will take to complete the two projects.
Part of the construction for the Winter Games began even before Salt Lake City was named as Olympic host. The construction was part of the effort to win designation from the International Olympic Committee, which passed over Utah for the 1998 games in favor of Nagano, Japan. The state built the basics of a $59 million winter sports park with a bobsled course, luge course, Nordic combined tracks, several ski jumps, and a speed-skating oval located off site, funded by a small increase in the state sales tax that voters approved in 1988.
Once the games are over, the Olympic Committee will reimburse Utah for that $59 million, plus $40 million for a maintenance fund. Civic leaders hope that the park and other facilities like the ice rinks will become a training ground for winter sports competitors, much like Colorado Springs, Colo., has become a home to the American summer sports program. "If you go to Squaw Valley, which hosted the Olympics in the 1960's, there is virtually nothing left," said David Winder, executive director of Utah's office of Community and Economic Development. "We want virtually every facility built for the Olympics this time to have a lasting effect on the city."
Even without the Olympics, the Salt Lake City area, population 1.2 million, is in the midst of an unprecedented construction spree that reflects the prosperity of the local economy and the area's relatively new role as a regional corporate headquarters. In downtown Salt Lake City, at least half a dozen cranes swing overhead on several projects that when finished will transform the skyline from its gap-toothed appearance of the past.
American Stores, the supermarket chain, is building a 24-story, gray and turquoise glass edifice to serve as its main office. Nearby, the Mormon Church, based in Salt Lake City, is erecting an 18-story tower to lease as office space.
One of the area's largest landowners and real estate developers, the Mormon Church has recently completed a 330-unit brick apartment complex downtown and has started laying the foundation for a 20,000-seat assembly hall that is expected to cost $240 million. The church's high birth rate and its growing membership has rendered the old assembly hall too small.
Another source of downtown construction is government, which has outgrown some of its 1960's-era buildings. Workers are finishing the interior of a new $60 million state courthouse, and a Federal courthouse a few blocks away is in the design stage.
Though Salt Lake City has a wealth of hotel rooms, many real estate experts have predicted that several more hotels will be built downtown to capitalize on the Olympics. So far, these predictions have been only partly realized with a $185 million expansion underway at the Little America hotel and an announcement that developers will begin work on a 350-room Crown Plaza Hotel sometime this winter.
ONE part of downtown that has yet to be affected by development is on the west side, a depressed warehouse district that is literally on the other side of the railroad tracks. Civic leaders hope that it will become an entertainment area, but for now a hulking train depot, a rail yard and dozens of brick buildings sit decrepit, much of them deserted among the weeds.
Outside of Salt Lake City, in the sprawling bedroom communities nearby, economic growth has led to countless distribution centers, business parks, and strip malls.
Long reputed to have bargain-priced housing, the Salt Lake area's steady population growth of roughly two percent since 1990 has pushed the median price of a home upward in recent years by over 10 percent annually to $127,000 in 1997, compared with the national median of $123,000, according to the National Association of Realtors.
In suburbs like South Jordan, Draper and Sandy, new brick homes are being built three to an acre in developments that rise on former farmland. In 1996, housing starts for new single family homes totaled 8,800 in the area, according to the Census Bureau.
But with this growth comes some notable problems. Among those commonly mentioned is a dearth of moderate-income housing, poor city planning and some notoriously congested highways -- a situation that is being addressed with a $2 billion program to expand Interstate 15 and build a commuter and light-rail system that is scheduled to be completed before the Olympics.
"Locals sometimes complain that we are getting too big," said Jaren L. Davis, president of the Salt Lake Board of Realtors. "But we are still a small city if you compare us on a national scale."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ski jumps near Park City, right, for summer practice for Olympics. Skiers race over a wet plastic surface and wind up in the pool in the foreground, some first performing acrobatics. American Stores headquarters in Salt Lake City nears completion. (Don Grayston for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Salt Lake City, Utah.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (99%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF UTAH UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (59%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF UTAH UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (59%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH); UNITED STATES (99%); UTAH, USA (99%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OLYMPIC GAMES (2002); STADIUMS OLYMPICS (91%); WINTER OLYMPICS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); LAKES (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS (86%); BASKETBALL (86%); SKIING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); TRENDS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); ICE SKATING (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); MAYORS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); RELIGION (71%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); RESORTS (68%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (65%); 

PERSON: KOPYTOFF, VERNE G

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



223 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: A Magical Yet Fragile Palette: Houses, Beaches and Shining Water

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
FROM the shoreline the water surrounding Long Island usually looks a drab gray. But from a helicopter over Fire Island on a recent morning the gentle waves were an almost luminous aqua.
"We see a variety of colors from up here," said Jeffrey Poretsky, a producer who is filming aerial views for WLIW-TV. "Yesterday we got a Caribbean blue. It was just amazing." 
 The palette is just one revelation about Long Island when seen from above.
Motorists below have come to rely on helicopter alerts to navigate expressway and parkway traffic jams. And government and business have found that aerial views are useful tools for fields like real estate and crime detection.
Earthbound residents will have a chance to see the bird's-eye view when Mr. Poretsky's program, "Visions of Long Island," has its premiere at 8 P.M. on Dec. 9.
From the air, Long Island idiosyncrasies stand out.
Spindly water towers are scattered across the horizon like giant Tinkertoys. The landscape is pocked by sumps, those deep pits carved out as recharge basins for rainwater. The straight and narrow Long Island Rail Road tracks cut along the length of the island like an endless brown zipper.
"These marshes are quite beautiful," Mr. Poretsky said. "You see the tides washing in and out and get this sense of how it's all tied together on the planet -- it's magical."
The wetlands are etched in a giant grid by hundreds of miles of skinny ditches, part of a network dug decades ago to thwart mosquitoes and malaria. Here and there stands a lonesome bay shack.
At ground level, the view across the Great South Bay is deceptively foreshortened. Only from above does its broad expanse unfold. That perspective also highlights the fragility of the slender South Shore barrier beaches that protect the main island and the tranquil bays from the pounding Atlantic surf.
Besides spectacular sightseeing, flying over the Island offers new insights.
"The first thing I did when I became the County Planning Director was to go up in a plane," the chief planner of Suffolk County, Stephen M. Jones, said. "It was a good opportunity to reacquaint myself with everything from the air. I especially wanted to see the beach erosion. When you're on the ground you can only see so far. It's more parochial. From the air you see with a more regional sense and see how the pieces fit together -- or don't fit together.
"The thing that pops out most vividly is the Long Island State Parkway system, Robert Moses' concept of a highway within a linear park. Right behind those trees is urban sprawl, which you don't see from the road."
Even driving in built-up areas, he said, "all you see are some two-story buildings. From the air, you really see the extent of the sprawl."
Flying over Babylon and Islip shows how economic and political forces have dictated contrasting uses on abutting swaths of otherwise indistinguishable flat land, the Pinelawn cemeteries, a golf course, subdivision housing, woods and commercial and industrial strips with their squared-off roofscapes and paved parking lots.
The enormous popularity of swimming pools becomes startlingly apparent. Invisible from the streets, they dot backyards everywhere with their round or rectangular shapes, all covered now with dark plastic sheets till next summer.
Developers use aerial tours and photographs to plan their projects, Mr. Jones said. "You can see where the first wave of development crashes in," Mr. Jones said, "and later where the undertow development moves back and fills in vacant parcels.
"You see the residual stream beds, little bands of woods and the encroachment of newer homes. Now you see the maturation of communities like Levittown and East Meadow. When they were built they looked raw, standing on farm fields. The trees planted then have grown up now, and in some places you can't even see the roads and houses for the tree canopies."
Suffolk is making new digitized versions of old aerial photographs "to show people what places were like before they got there," Mr. Jones said.
In Nassau a Democratic candidate for the County Legislature, Brian Mercadante, inspected his district, the 18th, by plane. He made photos for Mayor Thomas Suozzi of Glen Cove, who is using them to plan waterfront development.
Unpleasant necessities, often screened from the view of earthbound passers-by, are wide open to the overhead observer: sewage holding tanks, automobile junkyards and garbage landfills. Sand mines are gouged out of the North Shore's glacial hills like gaping wounds.
Illicit secrets are sometimes uncovered from the sky. A few weeks ago a Suffolk police helicopter crew, searching for a burglary suspect in thick woods in Wyandanch, was surprised to find a hidden patch of marijuana. Officers on foot returned to seize an estimated 2,000 plants, some 10 en feet tall, weighing a total of 1,000 pounds.
Responding to another emergency call last month, a police helicopter found two youngsters who were lost in a woods in Manorville.
"You also see a lot of beauty up there," said Mr. Jones.
Mr. Poretsky admired the geometric grace of a cloverleaf on Sunrise Highway. "Even Hempstead Turnpike looks beautiful from up here," he said, referring to an otherwise dreary shopping corridor.
From above the neat rows of marble headstones in the National Cemetery shrink into thousands of tiny white points on a deep green matrix.
Long Island's wealth impressed Mr. Poretsky as he taped Gold Coast mansions and East End resort houses. "I will never have enough money in my life to have the house of my dreams," he lamented. "And you'd be surprised how many horse farms and tracks there are that we didn't even know existed."
Sunset heralds yet another vision of the Island. "At night you see the lights along the roads and in shopping-mall parking lots," Mr. Jones said. "It's just like a circulatory system, with arteries, veins and nodes. They don't call highways arterials for nothing."
But for all it reveals about Long Island, the aerial views also obscure some earthly realities.
"From the air," Mr. Jones added, "you can't see potholes, litter, graffiti, the homeless and people waiting on welfare lines."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Moses State Park, Fire Island, is an area that Jeffrey Poretsky, a TV producer, is filming from helicopter. (Photographs by Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 1); An aerial during filming for WLIW-TV program. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WLIW-TV (NEW YORK) LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WLIW-TV (NEW YORK)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); HELICOPTERS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); COUNTIES (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); EROSION (73%); WETLANDS (71%); MALARIA (71%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (66%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE; PORETSKY, JEFFREY MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



224 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/The Westchester Office Market;
Leasing Out Space Left by Corporate Downsizings

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
THE building at 1311 Mamaroneck Avenue in White Plains is in many ways typical of the problems and opportunities in the office market in Westchester County.
Built on speculation in the early 80's by the Jack Parker Corporation, it was occupied by a single tenant, a division of I.B.M. Corporation, from its opening in 1982. Like so many other buildings in this northern suburb of New York, it was hard hit by the shrinkage of large corporations, including AT&T, Nynex and, of course, I.B.M. 
 As International Business Machines shrank its workforce, it consolidated into property it owned, leaving owners of leased properties to figure out how to remarket their buildings. Since it is not likely that a single tenant can be found for the 320,000-square-foot building that sits on 27 wooded acres on Mamaroneck Avenue, the owner is remodeling it for multitenant use.
"I.B.M. was very security conscious and they built a fortress," said Robert S. Skolnick, a vice president of Jack Parker. The company only used one entrance, he noted, though three were built, and it closed off the underground parking area and used the space for storage. Even an outdoor courtyard in the center of the building was sealed.
When I.B.M. pulled out in March, Parker took control of the property. Although plans are not yet complete, the general thought is to open the structure up and add amenities like a fitness center, conference facilities and a cafeteria with indoor-outdoor seating that will utilize the central courtyard.
"We looked at the market and found it very tight in northern New Jersey and Fairfield County," Mr. Skolnick said "We saw rentals at $30 a square foot at our Parker Plaza in Fort Lee and $32 to $34 a foot in Fairfield. So we figured we could reposition the building as a corporate campus setting and try to attract companies who can't find space nearby or are planning to move out of Manhattan."
Indeed, brokers and real estate executives say a lack of space and a rent spike in Fairfield are forcing companies to consider Westchester, whose recovery from the downturn of the early and mid-90's has lagged behind Fairfield and northern New Jersey, where developers are talking again about speculative building.
For companies looking for existing office space "Westchester is the last ball game -- there is no other space in the northern suburbs," said Donald P. Eisen, Cushman & Wakefield's chief suburban office specialist. He said companies looking to move typically do not want to wait the 18 to 24 months it takes to complete a new building. "Everybody wants action now," he said.
According to figures compiled by Newmark & Company Real Estate, a total of 485,637 net square feet of space was leased in Westchester in the third quarter of the year, which is almost as much as the previous two quarters.
As a result, the vacancy rate declined, from 17.3 percent at the beginning of the quarter to 15.9 percent at the end. Fairfield remained steady at about 13 percent. Nevertheless, corporate downsizing has left large spaces, like the Parker property, hanging over the market, while demand comes in smaller bites.
"The market continues to be hampered by an imbalance in the supply and demand for office space," said Michael Klein, executive director of Insignia/Rostenberg-Doern. He noted that more than one-third of the available office space in Westchester was in blocks of 250,000 square feet or more, while the majority of recent leases have been for 5,000 square feet or less.
"Westchester is clearly a pocket that has not fully recovered," said Jon Halpern, president of Halpern Real Estate Development. "The corporate consolidation lasted a little longer here and went a little deeper." Mr. Halpern, who is also a member of the board of the Reckson Associates Realty Company, a real estate investment trust, which is active in most New York suburbs, cited the case of the Tarrytown Corporate Center.
"When I.B.M. pulled out we had 450,000 square feet to market," he said. "When we put Ciba-Geigy in there the market was getting so tight that we were thinking it might be time to build again. But then Novartis bought Ciba and moved 170,000 square feet worth of people out."
Mr. Halpern said that he expected to be able to lease that space within 12 months, but said it is a good example of how decisions made at a distant corporate headquarters can affect a local market.
Another adverse effect of corporate shrinkage is an overstatement of the amount of property on the market, said Carl Austin, president of Austin Corporate Properties. "The problem is that the statistics include buildings that are in mothballs, and not actually on the market," Mr. Austin said. When corporations left buildings, many owners lost control to their lenders.
"The lenders are not going to invest in those buildings, so they are effectively off the market," Mr. Austin said. "They may be recycled as residential or retail properties, but meanwhile they distort the statistics."
Mr. Skolnick said that since the Parker Center was originally a speculative building, it was flexible enough to handle multiple tenants. Since it has three major sections, each with its own entrance and lobby, several tenants could appear to have their "own" building.
"Instead of a corporate headquarters, we might get several divisions who take 100,000 to 150,000 square feet each," he said. "We could have two or three different companies, and give each one a separate identity."
"It is actually three buildings that interconnect," said Barry Gosin, the chief executive of Newmark, which is marketing the project. "It is going to be modernized, renovated and repositioned for more than one tenant."
Despite the difficulty in matching space to prospective tenants, economic pressure is going to force more companies to make things work in Westchester, real estate executives say.
"There has been a real transition in Fairfield," said Mr. Klein of Insignia/Rostenberg-Doern. "Eighteen months ago rentals were in the $17-$18 a foot range. Now in downtown Stamford it is $30 to $34 a foot as is -- with no work."
He said that as companies that signed up during the real estate recession in the early years of the decade come to the end of five- to seven-year leases, many are likely to look elsewhere. "The decision will usually be to look farther up the Connecticut coast or consider Westchester." Mr. Klein said rental rates in Class A buildings in Westchester were $20 to $22 a square foot, which could represent a big savings from a Stamford or Greenwich location.
INDUSTRY executives note that the Westchester office market is now dominated by institutional investors who have the capital to invest in renovating buildings and the staying power to make it through recessions. Most of Mr. Halpern's holdings were acquired by Reckson, while the Robert Martin portfolio was purchased by the Cali Realty Corporation. A third portfolio, the Shulman holding of 24 buildings, is now owned by the General Motors Pension Fund and the Principal insurance company.
"We have these new players in the market now," Mr. Austin said. "They are careful not to overpay, but they are aggressively pursuing investments."
Mr. Austin said Westchester still retains its structural advantages, such as good transportation links to New York City as well as the appeal of the suburbs. "When a company looks to relocate from Manhattan," he said, "we can show them the good schools, the country club and stable taxes."
As difficult as the transition from being host to corporate headquarters to host to multitenant properties has been, the end result will be a stronger real estate base in the county, said Mr. Halpern. "Those buildings that were occupied by a single corporate tenant are being reoccupied by a diverse group of strong tenants who are growing, not contracting," he said. "The residential market here is tremendously strong and that is usually a precursor to commercial activity."
But others sound a note of caution. Mr. Eisen of Cushman & Wakefield said anyone who expected to fill empty corporate palaces without substantial modification is probably dreaming.
"The corporations are still cautious," he said. "The 80's are not that far away. People are still a little shy about committing to sprawling corporate campuses. We don't have the huge space-growth companies that we had in the past."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former I.B.M. building at 1311 Mamaroneck Avenue in White Plains will be remodeled for multiple tenants. (Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (58%); IBM (NYSE) (58%); IBM (LSE) (58%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (84%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: JACK PARKER CORP (84%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (58%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); BGC PARTNERS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); SUBURBS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



225 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 10; Column 6; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Trying To Win A Park (And Jobs)

BYLINE: By STEPHEN L. PURDY 

 BODY:
SIX FLAGS Theme Parks, a Time Warner Company with 12 parks in operation, is coming to New England. The company, known for its fantasy and adventure exhibits and rides tied to corporate properties like Bugs Bunny and Superman, is aggressively marketing locations, with things appearing to have narrowed down to East Hartford and Hopkinton, R.I.
East Hartford has the demographics and Hopkinton has proximity to established resorts, in Six Flags' estimation. What the company has its eye on in Connecticut is the 600-acre Rentschler Field formerly used by Pratt & Whitney. 
 Bill Moore, vice president of theme park development for Six Flags, says talks with Pratt & Whitney are going well. He adds a park of this scope -- $280 million, 300 acres -- is unusual in today's economy and that "We expect people from all over will want to come see, just as they went to Disney."
Visitors, he adds, would be attracted from as far away as Boston, Albany, Philadelphia and Montreal.
Chuck Coursey, a spokesman for the company, says that research shows 30 percent of visitors will stay at least one night at an area hotel, in addition to visiting other attractions. Supporters of the plan in East Hartford, looking to a theme park to help revive an economy shaken by military and retail losses, want to play a major role in regional development. They believe Six Flags' capital investment and estimated 3.5 million visitors a year will help the town do just that.
"It's the type of project that can create a spark for the entire region," says East Hartford's Mayor, Robert M. DeCrescenzo, who initiated talks with Six Flags in February after reading the company was considering a North Stonington site. "They've got the right state, just the wrong town," he told a lawyer working with Six Flags.
Pratt & Whitney, meanwhile, is saying little. "The most recent discussions we've had with Six Flags," said Gary Minor, a spokesman, "have been very good ones." Still, he added, "We weren't going to talk to anybody about a use of the field unless it was something we deemed positive for East Hartford, greater Hartford and the state."
This past summer, the East Hartford Chamber of Commerce organized a trip of 40 business, government and community people to the nearest Six Flags park, in Jackson, N.J. "We were pleased by its cleanliness, quiet and organization," said Mary Beth Reid, the chamber's executive director.
In observing Six Flags' construction in New Jersey, she felt the company would respect the East Hartford terrain. "What I found in Jackson was you didn't know you were there until you got inside the park," she explained.
In turn, she thinks East Hartford's site, with its highway accessibility and trees planted to soften airplane noise, will help a theme park.
Drivers should be able to enter the park without using local streets, said Mayor DeCrescenzo. "If we are smart about the traffic planning, we can make it imperceptible to the existing neighborhoods, one of which is my own," he said.
The director of finance at the Connecticut Rivers Council Boy Scouts of America, based in East Hartford and serving 127 cities and towns, is considering ways a theme park can merge with his organization's goal to establish life skills in young people. Six Flags' potential for summer jobs is considered a particular asset.
The East of River Chambers of Commerce Association, a group of chamber members from six towns and county organizations around East Hartford, has studied the potential impact of a theme park and prepared a collective position. Before releasing it, however, each member must clear it with his or her executive committee. The group's director, John N. Anderson, says he has little doubt the body will come out in strong support of Six Flags.
State Senator Gary D. LeBeau, a Democrat of East Hartford, thinks Pratt & Whitney and Six Flags are "within inches of signing a proposal." He believes Six Flags will negotiate financial aid with the state in the form of tax incremental financing (revenue collected at admission used to pay a bond the state would back). Senator LeBeau says it's vital East Hartford get Six Flags. North-central Connecticut, he explains, needs another engine of growth. "With one stroke," he says of the park, "we diversify."
Harry Henninger, president of Kennywood Entertainment, which operates three amusement parks in Pennsylvania and is new owner/operator of Lake Compounce, counters that Six Flags ought to make a proposal on vacant land now available at the Bristol park 20 miles away. "Instead of building this megapark in East Hartford," he said, "let's take the $100 million worth of value in Lake Compounce now, add to that, and make that the megapark. That way everybody wins."
Six Flags answers that a Hartford opening would only benefit the Bristol/Southington center. Promotion, Mr. Moore says, would include all media, television, radio and newspaper, and would encourage the state's tourism groups.
Andrew J. Meade, chairman of the Southington Town Council, isn't convinced. "If Six Flags comes to East Hartford or the state, it would be disastrous for Lake Compounce," he said. He says Kennywood worked well with the state in last year's joint development, and that the state may be throwing away its investment and betraying Lake Compounce. "The state gave its word, put up money for Lake Compounce and brought these people in, let them believe Lake Compounce would be the amusement park in the area."
He adds that the state will end up spending millions more dollars to reconstruct already overburdened roads for the Six Flag project. It's foolishness, he adds, to think visitors there would ride down to Lake Compounce. More generally, he accuses the state of considering too many service- and low-paying jobs. A strong manufacturing base, he says, has long been protection during slow economic times.
Along with Bristol's Mayor Frank N. Nicastro Sr., he has written to the Gov. John G. Rowland expressing concern.
Dean Pagani, spokesman for the Governor, said "The Governor has clearly signaled to everyone involved that he doesn't want an investment in Six Flags to hurt Lake Compounce. The state has, over the years, made continuing investments there. Obviously, the Governor doesn't want to invest in a new project that's going to kill another one."
For Senator LeBeau, however, "The issue here is not East Hartford versus Bristol -- it's Connecticut versus Rhode Island." If Six Flags is across the line, he says, "Lake Compounce is going to be wiped out."
P. Anthony Giorgio, Hartford area economist whose Capitol Region Growth Council led the regional economic strategy MetroHartford Millennium Project, says that, along with the jobs, hotel and restaurant business Six Flags would provide, it would boost Millennium-encouraged regional initiatives such as a new science museum/magnet school in East Hartford, a possible ESPN headquarters, and the redevelopment of area colleges with a downtown Hartford anchor.
Most important, he says, we can't ignore that some analysts are projecting Six Flags may provide the state with $1 billion in revenue over the next decade.
Mr. Giorgio says those who accuse the region of avoiding manufacturing are wrong. "I have 800 jobs with area manufacturers I can't fill," he says, "because I don't have skilled workers." Finally, in support of Six Flags in East Hartford, he says, "Arts and entertainment is big business, one of the major economic drivers of any successful region."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SIX FLAGS THEME PARKS INC SIX FLAGS THEME PARKS INC (84%); PRATT & WHITNEY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIX FLAGS THEME PARKS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST HARTFORD (CONN); JACKSON (NJ); UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); MAYORS (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: PURDY, STEPHEN L; DECRESCENZO, ROBERT M (MAYOR) WILLIAM B MOORE (57%); WILLIAM B MOORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



226 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 7; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Going for Election: Mudslinging or Just Presenting Facts?

BYLINE: By PEGGY McCARTHY 

 BODY:
NEGATIVE campaigning was one of the losers in last Tuesday's municipal elections, according to politicians who survived it. What's referred to as mudslinging by victims and pointing out factual allegations by attackers didn't work in Waterbury and Orange where incumbents won re-election.
Orange Democratic First Selectman Robert C. Sousa predicted that his victory would bring an end to "negative, personal campaigning" not only in his town but in the whole state and country. "It sounds melodramatic, but it is important. People are very, very upset." 
 Mr. Sousa, a lawyer who two years ago was the first Democrat ever elected First Selectman in Orange, survided a campaign in which opponents tried to make an issue of his legal representation of a Ku Klux Klan leader in civil matters. He defeated Albert (Skip) Clark, a Republican, and Daniel V. Presnick of the Orange Taypayers Party.
In Waterbury, Philip A. Giordano, a Republican, was elected to a second term in his heavily Democratic city after a campaign in which allegations about his personal life attempted to upstage the Mayor's talk of eliminating the budget deficit. On election night, he claimed victory over "rumors, innuendos and fabrications of truth." During the campaign, he denied rumors that he was the father of an illegitimate child, faced questions about being found by the police with a female staffer at night in a parked car, and confronted a battle over whether the police should release a tape of a 911 call from his home. Mr. Giordano defeated Democratic State Representative Thomas F. Conway.
In Westport, Diane C. Farrell, a Democrat, and her supporters expressed pride about sticking to the issues in her successful campaign to oust the incumbent Republican First Selectman, Joseph P. Arcudi. But Republicans insisted there were subtle references on the part of Democrats to Mr. Arcudi being the defendant in a sexual harrassment lawsuit that had been settled out of court.
Whether Mr. Sousa is correct -- that people will reject negative campaigning in the voting booth -- remains to be seen. But indications are that negative campaigning itself will continue to be an issue.
The state's senior United States . Senator, Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat of East Haddam, recently criticized his party's state chairman, Edward L. Marcus, for statements Mr. Marcus had made connecting rumor-plagued Mr. Giordano with Gov. John G. Rowland, who campaigned for the Waterbury Mayor. Mr Dodd recently told a Fairfield audience that Mr. Marcus "crossed the line" in a press release about Mr. Giordano. It was titled, "Waterbury Mayor Caught with City Hall Staffer" and subtitled, "Another Rowland Ally You Just Can't Trust."
The Republican State Chairman, Christopher DePino, also attacked what he called Mr. Marcus's "shoot-from-the-hip style." He had written to Mr. Dodd before the Senator made his remarks, asking for "a public response" to the Democratic chairman's "continuing attacks on Governor Rowland and the personal nature of those attacks."
In an interview, the Democratic chairman defended his strategy, saying he was making "factual allegations." Mr. Marcus said, "I intend to criticize Rowland when he deserves it. That's one of the functions of the Democratic chairman when you have a Republican Governor, to point out the failings of the Republican governor. I have been doing that consistently, effectively, properly."
Mr. Marcus, whose term expires in January of 1999, said "there's a likelihood" of his seeking the chairmanship for another term.
In the municipal elections that took place in 159 towns throughout the state, Republicans scored upsets in Hamden and East Haven, while in Branford, Democrat Anthony (Unk) DaRos ousted incumbent Republican First Selectman Dominic A. Buonocore.
Hamden Democratic Mayor Lillian D. Clayman, who had indicated interest in running for Secretary of the State, was defeated by Republican Barbara A. DeNicola, whose father and brother have also served as Hamden mayors.
In East Haven, Democratic Mayor Henry J. Luzzi lost to Republican Joseph Maturo Jr. East Haven has been in the public eye recently because of an incident in which a police chase resulted in the death of an unarmed New Haven man. Mr. Luzzi has defended the actions of the police officer. East Haven has also been the defendant in a lawsuit brought by the N.A.A.C.P. (page 12).
In Greenwich, where there had been controversies concerning the police department, the sewers and the closing of Byram Park due to pollution, there was a tight race between incumbent Republican Tom R. Ragland 3d and Democrat Stephanie H. Sanchez. Midweek unofficial results showed Mr. Ragland with a 117-vote lead. But Democrats were elated because it was just the second time in 100 years that two Democrats, Ms. Sanchez and Richard Bergstresser, were elected to the Board of Selectmen. Republicans outnumber Democrats in Greenwich by more two-and-a-half-to-one.
In the large cities, incumbents ruled. After easily winning election to a fourth term in Bridgeport, Democratic Mayor Joseph P. Ganim said he would soon make an announcement about whether he would run for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination against Congresswoman Barbara B. Kennelly of Hartford. On election night Mr. Ganim said, "I'm committed to my city and its future. I'm equally committed to my state."
Stamford Mayor Dannell P. Malloy defeated a severely underfinanced opponent, Republican Charles E. Klein. After his first, two-year term, Mr. Malloy will begin Stamford's first four-year term of office for a mayor. Mr. Malloy attributed his victory to a reduction in crime and unemployment, investment in schools, and physical improvements like road repairs and new sidewalks.
In New Haven and Hartford, where the Democratic mayors had no Republican opposition, New Haven Mayor John DeStefano Jr.and Hartford Mayor Michael P. Peters were re-elected over independent candidates.
In Fairfield, Democratic Kenneth A. Flatto won the open First Selectman's seat, beating Republican John P. McCarthy, while Republican Mayors Frank J. Esposito, of Norwalk; William W. Dickinson Jr., of Wallingford, and Mark A. Lauretti, of Shelton, were all re-elected. Guilford Republican Samuel Bartlett defeated Democrat Marianne Sullivan in an open contest.
Democrats were successful in Middletown, East Hartford, New Britain and Danbury. Dominique Thornton is the new Middletown Mayor and Timothy D. Larson was elected Mayor of East Hartford, while Lucian J. Pawlak was re-elected in New Britain, and Gene F. Eriquez keeps his job in Danbury.
In Milford, a new third party, which campaigned mainly on its opposition to low-income housing in the city, grabbed five seats on the city's Board of Aldermen. The party, called Citizens for Milford's Future, which had received a donation from William F. Buckley Jr. of Stamford, is an offshoot of the local Republican party. The city's Republican mayor, Frederick L. Lisman, had no opposition to his re-election bid.
According to figures provided by the Secretary of the State's office, there were 1.8 million voters registered on the active voters list, a 2.4 percent drop from the Presidential election year.
Decreases typically occur after Presidential years, but this year's drop is the lowest since 1973, according to the state figures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LOCAL GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); LAWYERS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (51%); BUDGETS (51%); 

PERSON: MCCARTHY, PEGGY CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



227 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: What's Really Needed To Help Students

BYLINE: By PEGGY MCCARTHY 

 BODY:
AN advocate for children with learning disabilities, Ann W. Seigel, of West Hartford, said she gets an upset stomach every time she hears talk of reducing the number of children being diagnosed with learning problems. Ms. Seigel says she worries that if educational services are cut for these children, the risk of their dropping out of school will rise sharply and they could become unemployable, or even commit crimes. Ms. Seigel said she gets sicker with fears that parents of other children will rally to support cuts in special education programs.
"There've been a lot of bad vibes across the country" about learning disabled students, said Ms. Seigel, whose grown son has learning disabilities. "There's been bashing that they're not truly disabled, that the parents are buying the labels. When you live with a youngster and you know he has a disabling condition that you can't see, it's very disturbing." 
 But the Bridgeport Superintendent of Schools, James Connelly, sees a need for streamlining the special education process and program. He said he has seen children from, say, Honduras or El Salvador being inappropriately labeled as learning disabled because they had missed years of school in their own countries.
"There's a tendency if you don't know what to do with them, put a special education label on them," he said, explaining that such misidentification helps drive special education costs up when a good language program would be more effective. He maintained that a "one-size-fits-all" philosophy of addressing learning problems has put more children in special education programs than need to have been there.
Lumped together as special education students are children with mental retardation, blindness, deafness, cerebral palsy, dyslexia, attention deficit disorder and a variety of other problems, such as difficulties in learning how to read and write.
The focus of most of the state's attention is on children classified as learning disabled, a broad label that generally describes people with at least average intelligence who have trouble understanding spoken or written language. They may have problems listening, thinking, speaking, reading, writing, spelling or doing math. The Olympic athlete Bruce Jenner who grew up in Newtown, for example, has dyslexia, which means he might see a letter like b as a d. He has said that it was easier to participate in the Olympics than it was to be called on to read in school.
Nearly 14 percent of public school students have been identified as needing special education and some 48 percent of those have been classified as learning disabled, according to figures compiled by the State Department of Education. "We're not trying to throw out special education. We're not trying to take away services," said Thomas Murphy, a spokesman for the Education Department. "But," he added, "we have to question whether 14 percent of our students are special education students."
In Connecticut, more than two-thirds of special education students spend most of their time in regular classrooms, and receive fewer than 10 hours a week in supplemental instruction, according to a draft report on special education written by the department. About 8 percent have been placed in private schools, which can cost tens of thousands of dollars a year. This is paid for by the school district where the child lives -- or lived, in instances where the state has removed children from their homes.
The report cites an increase in special education students from 3 percent in 1992-93 to 13.9 percent in 1995-96, a 4 percent exit rate from special education programs, and suggests that too many students are being identified as learning disabled.
Recommendations in the report that have prompted considerable debate include:
* Increasing the placement of special education students in the regular classroom (the educational jargon is "mainstreaming").
* Reducing what is called the "prevalence rate" of children needing special education.
* Increasing the number of students who leave special education programs during their school career.
* Decreasing the use of the label "special education" or "learning disabled," which the report states places a stigma on children, resulting in low expectations.
A recommendation to place more focus on the teaching of reading, and to retrain and better prepare teachers to tailor reading lessons to individual needs has received more widespread support. The report states that research shows a "direct linkage between the label of learning disabilities and the inability of children to acquire reading skills."
But the Connecticut Education Association, the state's largest teachers' union, has a different point of view, said Daria M. Plummer, association president.
"I know for a fact teachers know how to teach reading," she said, adding "it's incomprehensible to think you can put children of all abilities, including children with learning disabilities, in one classroom and simply say the teacher can teach each one totally." Children with learning problems, she said, often need extra help from specially trained teachers.
In interviews, advocates for special education insisted that the numbers of students identified are not alarming, but reflect what studies show as the proportion of people with learning problems in the population. They said Connecticut has the fifth highest percentage of special education students in the country because of proficiency here at identifying such children.
Special education advocates said that although some learning disabilities are caused by use of alcohol and drugs by pregnant women, most are genetic and can't be cured. So, they said, some learning disabled children appropriately need support throughout their education. But they said that some chldren who are diagnosed with learning disabilties at a young age and are given help, learn to compensate for them and can eventually succeed in the regular classroom.
The suggestion in the report that a stigma is attached to being a special education student has triggered emotional reaction. Beryl F. Kaufman, executive director of the Connecticut Association for Children with Learning Disabilities, said before diagnosis, children with learning problems have been given other labels by classmates, parents, siblings and teachers. "They're called dumb, retarded, stupid," she said, and added, "Are they saying, if there were no special education, these kids would not have self-esteem problems?"
Mainstreaming isn't a clear-cut solution, the advocates say, pointing to studies showing that mentally retarded children succeed well in regular classrooms, but some learning disabled students need to be in less noisy settings.
An educational psychology professor at the University of Connecticut, Miriam Cherkes-Julkowski, described the state report as "anti-special education." It has prompted "a terrible fear that special education will be lost completely, and then, what will happen to these children," she said. The fact that Federal law requires provision of special education has heartened advocates.
Concerns about costs for special education have been expressed by officials of towns and school districts. Those costs include salaries for specialists like psychologists and speech and language therapists, legal fees when parents appeal for more services for their children, and residential placements made by such agencies as the State Department of Children and Families. The report states that special education represents 17.8 percent of local education spending.
Municipalities want to see the state assume a greater share of these costs and will be asking the General Assembly to take action to do so in the 1998 session, said James Finley, legislative liaison for the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities. Until 1995, the state provided a separate grant for special education. Since the general education and special education grants were merged, increases in special education costs have not been reflected in the single grant, Mr. Finley said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marianne Insalco, an Ellington district special education teacher, with Albert Oulette, Brandon Desmarest and Aaron Koehler. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Brandon Desmarest gets one-on-one attention at Crystal Lake School in the Ellington district. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); HONDURAS (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; BRIDGEPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (90%); HONDURAS (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LEARNING DISABILITIES; SPECIAL EDUCATION (HANDICAPPED); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION LEARNING DISABILITIES (95%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (93%); DISABLED PERSONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DYSLEXIA (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (89%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (78%); CEREBRAL PALSY (78%); DEAFNESS (78%); MENTAL RETARDATION (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); BLINDNESS (73%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (72%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); OLYMPICS (60%); 

PERSON: MCCARTHY, PEGGY; CONNELLY, JAMES (SUPT) MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



228 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 6; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Volunteer Center To Help With Jobs

BYLINE: By FELICE BUCKVAR 

 BODY:
THE Volunteer Center of United Way in White Plains will take part in the county's effort to get recipients of the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families program into job training and jobs.
Benefiting from the center's Community Work Experience Program, besides the 700 needy families chosen to take part, will be the nonprofit and governmental agencies to which the center has been directing volunteers since it started in 1949. A $999,800 agreement between the county and the center is sponsored mostly with Federal funds with 38 percent coming from the state and the county. 
 Bill Straubinger, the center's president and director for the last 16 years, said: "We were chosen because we have expertise in placing people in community service. The program's recipients will acquire the job skills they need and solid work experience. The agencies and organizations will receive about 20 hours of service from each worker. Our goal is eventually to move the people from community service to private-sector jobs." The center also works with about 60 corporations.
The 1996 welfare law requires that the county have 25 percent of its recipients of the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families program in work or work-related activity by the end of this year. The number increases to 30 percent by the end of 1998 and to 50 percent by 2002.
Programs helping people to go from welfare to work have already had an impact on about 300 individuals working in community service or county government. "I was about to give up hope," said Robert Baker of Greenburgh, now a cook at the Whitney Young Head Start program in Yonkers. He learned cooking in the Army, then worked at Howard Johnson's and the Ground Round. When he lost his last job, he received unemployment benefits, then went on public assistance. But he got a job through a program called Pride in Work, tailored to able-bodied people on home relief. "The work's rewarding and it gives me independence," he said. He works five days a week, eight hours a day and said, "It would be a great thing to have more people in that type of program."
Brenda Williams of Yonkers, a teacher's aide at St. Peter's Child Care Center in Yonkers, said she, too, started on public assistance. She would have lost her benefits if she had not gone into Pride in Work, which led to her job at the center. "They hired me, and they're sending me to school to get certified," she said. "I don't have to pay anything for school, and I'll be able to get a job elsewhere with my qualifications and experience. You really can't beat this."
The project director for the volunteer center's new program, Pat Tomassi, is on the board of the Volunteer Center. She previously worked for AT&T as manager of public relations for Westchester and Long Island. "My background is in linking the nonprofit and corporate sectors," she said. "I see this program as a challenge to get people on welfare back on their feet, to make them feel motivated and develop their sense of self-worth."
Besides the project director, other new positions being added to the center's staff include a supervisor at the Regional Job Center planned for Mount Vernon, two work-experience coordinators and part-time job coaches. Mr. Straubinger also said he hopes to get "a lot of volunteers -- 50 or 60 -- to adopt a family and call once a week to ask, 'How are you doing?' "
Recipients of Temporary Assistance to Needy Families will first be summoned to the Department of Social Services to determine their eligibility for the work program. People who are incapacitated and cannot work and people who take care of a child under 1 year old or a disabled child or adult are among those who will not be referred to the program. The eligible recipients will be placed according to their needs in job training, job search or directly into community service work.
The percentage of recipients who must be involved in work or job training is substantially higher than it used to be, said Dennis Packard, assistant commissioner of the Department of Social Services' Office of Benefits Issuance. It includes people who have not worked after receiving benefits for two years. In addition, there is a five-year lifetime limit for federally financed benefits. Information about the volunteer center's work-experience program can be obtained by calling 948-4452.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED WAY

ORGANIZATION: UNITED WAY

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VOCATIONAL TRAINING VOLUNTEERS (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMILY SERVICES (90%); FAMILY (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); PARAEDUCATORS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (63%); 

PERSON: BUCKVAR, FELICE MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



229 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 19; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: $400,000 Median Price Sets County Record

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER 

 BODY:
CONSUMER demand during the third quarter of the year drove the median sale price of a single family house beyond the $400,000 mark for the first time since the Westchester County Board of Realtors began collecting data in 1981.
There were also more closings of residential real estate sales in Westchester in July, August and September than in any quarter measured by the Board of Realtors, with realtor member offices reporting a total of 2,712 sales, a 5 percent increase over the same quarter last year. 
Single-family houses, cooperatives and two-unit to five-unit multiple-family houses all set sales records. Only condominiums fell short of a record, nevertheless making the second best showing since 1981. Much of the increase in single-family houses was because of the activity in properties selling for $1 million or more. There were 73 such sales in the third quarter compared with the average quarterly count of 20 to 30 properties.
An extraordinarily high rate of co-op sales, 334 reported closings, were the most for any prior quarter, resulting in the first substantial dent in the co-op inventory since the early 1990's. Third-quarter closings result from marketing and sales activity that take place in late spring and early summer. A major factor during that period was the continuing decline of mortgage interest rates from their peak in March and April. Average rates in the New York City area on 30-year conventional mortgages fell below the 8 percent level in late May and dropped to 7.5 percent by late July. PENNY SINGER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COUNTIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); SALES FIGURES (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); 

PERSON: SINGER, PENNY

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



230 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
Construction Bustles at an Old Hospital's Grounds

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN

DATELINE: CENTRAL ISLIP

 BODY:
SIGNS of new construction are everywhere on the grounds of what once was the Central Islip Psychiatric Center, with industrial space, housing and a $212 million Federal building and courthouse all under way.
The 100-year-old hospital, which occupied 684 acres along Carleton Avenue north of the Southern State Parkway, phased out its operation over several years, shutting down its remaining space last December. 
 "There was a little bit of a delay because of the recent recession, but over the past two years implementation of our master plan is going incredibly well and is fascinating to watch," said Thomas A. Isles, planning director for the Town of Islip, which adopted a master plan for the property in 1989. "Over half a billion dollars of public and private investment has already come in."
The New York Institute of Technology, whose main campus is in Old Westbury, led the way for the revitalization of the hospital property by purchasing 546 of its 684 acres over a four-year period ending in 1986, paying New York State $5.5 million.
The institute has since refurbished many of the former hospital buildings on the east side of Carleton Avenue as classrooms and dormitories, spending an additional $55 million on renovations. It now has 1,600 students on its 175-acre campus here and has been selling off the balance of its property for uses dictated by the town's master plan. It has also donated 85 acres, including a nine-hole golf course, to the town for recreational purposes and 57 acres to Suffolk County for a courthouse and office center. An additional 30 acres is owned by the town.
"The promise of Central Islip as we envisioned it is coming to fruition and it's extraordinary to see it," said Matthew Schure, the president of the institute. The college agreed to purchase the hospital property after several other educational institutions rejected the town's proposal to convert the grounds into a college campus.
"When we first came we were in the midst of an empty psychiatric center and the nearby business district was decimated," Dr. Schure said. "Now it's all back. Businesses are moving in, housing is being built, courts are built and more are coming."
The recycling of the hospital can become a model for others to follow, Dr. Schure added. "If others around the country ask, 'What can we do with our empty facilities?', an answer can be found right here in Central Islip," he said.
The main academic areas on the campus here are devoted to architecture, culinary arts, advertising, education and criminal justice. A telecommunications area is to be added next year. The institute is also considering turning a building known as Robbins Hall into a performing-arts center.
Under the town's master plan, 125 of the 564 acres purchased by the college can be developed for industrial and retail space and 68 acres for housing. The 495,000-square-foot John P. Cohalan Jr. Center, a courthouse and county agency complex, was completed in 1992. And an 822,000-square-foot Federal building and courthouse now under construction on 29 acres -- 22 donated by the county and 7 bought from the college -- is to be completed in 1999.
The industrial-retail park, which under the zoning can contain up to 1.3 million square feet, is part of a one-square-mile Economic Development Zone designated in 1987 and scheduled to expire in 2004.
Within the zone -- which does not include the college or the courthouse complex, but does include some of downtown Central Islip south of the Long Island Rail Road tracks -- businesses reap substantial property tax benefits and a 46 percent reduction in power rates, among other advantages.
UNDER the property-tax abatement within the zone, only land, not improvements are taxed for the first seven years and full taxes on improvements are not levied until the 11th year following completion. Tax abatements on improvements are also available to homeowners. Manufacturers also get a 10 percent state tax credit on their investment in land, buildings and equipment.
The New York Institute of Technology still has 11 acres for sale within the industrial park at $250,000 an acre. And the town is considering extending the Economic Development Zone to include 20 adjoining acres it owns so that it, too, can be developed for industrial purposes. "We have gone from zero jobs in the park in 1992 to 1,200 jobs and expect to be up to 1,500 jobs in a year or two," said William G. Mannix, Islip's director of economic development.
The first business to move into the park, Creative Bath, a manufacturer of decorative bathroom products, arrived there in 1992 and is currently adding an 180,000-square-foot building to the 300,000 square feet of space that it occupies. The company has 640 employees and expects to hire 100 more when the new building is completed in December, said its president, Mat Meinzinger.
Mr. Meinzinger said he was now considering purchasing some of the land zoned for offices "because with the courts coming in there is a need for office space."
Other occupants of the park include the Dimac Marketing Corporation, a mail-order business, which moved into its 245,000- square-foot building last month; Cintas, a uniform manufacturer that moved into 55,000 square feet last month, and J.M.R. Graphics, a printing company, which moved into 12,000 square feet in 1993.
The residences being built on 68 acres include Park Row, a town-house development on 61 acres on the east side of Carleton Avenue that will eventually include 487 two- and three-bedroom units, with current prices ranging from $142,990 to $189,990. All but 120 of the houses are sold. The original developer was the Parr Development Company of Ronkonkoma, but the project is now owned by Pacific Bay Homes of Newport Beach, Calif.
Opening in March on 7.2 acres on the west side of Carleton is Bishop McGann Village, a 125-unit rental project for low-income elderly tenants being built by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre. The two- and three-story buildings will contain one-bedroom apartments for which households making no more than $24,000 are eligible.
The apartments have all been allocated to winners of a lottery held in August. Occupants will pay no more than 30 percent of their income for rent, with the balance to be paid out of Federal subsidies.
THE John P. Cohalan Jr. Center, where 750 people work, includes State Supreme Court, District and Family courtrooms, along with offices of the county attorney and other county agencies.
The new Federal building designed by Richard Meier and Partners of Manhattan and the Spector Group of North Hills is expected to employ 1,300 people. It will initially contain 23 courtrooms and offices for various federal agencies, with an expansion to 39 courtrooms planned for the future.
In addition, Touro College, of Manhattan, will be building a new law school next to the court complex. Gov. George E. Pataki recently signed legislation enabling Touro to purchase 18 acres owned by New York State. A preliminary design for the $25-million building, on which construction is expected to start next year, has already been developed by the Spector Group.
Retail and office development is expected to follow once the other pieces of the master plan are more or less in place, said Mr. Isles, the Town Planner. The 27 acres zoned for those uses can contain up to 130,000 square feet of retail space, 50,000 square feet of offices and a hotel with up to 300 rooms.
Still indefinite are plans for the buildings and the roughly 100 acres still owned by New York State. Among ideas being explored is recycling some of the 781,000 square feet of structures for housing or for additional educational purposes. Suggestions for the vacant land include construction of a minor league ballpark.
"It's all very exciting, and so much is happening, but unfortunately real estate brokers and investors still don't have a good image of Central Islip," said Nancy Manfredonia, executive director of the Central Islip Civic Council, a local civic group. "Our major problem has been getting the word out about this amazing half-a-billion-dollar investment in our community."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Federal courthouse complex under construction in Central Islip, above. Bishop McGann Village, rentals for low-income elderly, opens in March. (Photographs by Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Central Islip, Long Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF FINANCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); GOLF (64%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (62%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



231 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Stalled Shopping Center Starts Up in Piscataway

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

DATELINE: PISCATAWAY

 BODY:
STALLED by three years of litigation, a project has begun to turn 50 wooded acres in the center of this Middlesex County community into a 421,000-square-foot shopping center.
Centennial Square will take shape over the next 18 months on the former industrially zoned tract, which is at Stelton Road and South Washington Avenue and backs up to Interstate 287. Garden Homes Commercial, a division of Garden Homes, both based in Short Hills, took over the project last September two months after a suit challenging its approvals and the site's rezoning was resolved. The earlier developer chose not to proceed with the project. 
 The project will be the largest retail development and the first in nearly eight years in the township, said Anne M. Gordon, Piscataway's public information officer. Its significance to the township is that it will bring in jobs and help keep the community's tax base balanced, she said.
While a spate of high-density housing went up within Piscataway's 20 square miles over the last decade, corporate downsizing left much of its office space empty. Commercial tax appeals also took a toll in the township, which is now undergoing a resurgence, said Ms. Gordon.
She noted that the developer of Centennial Square would also build the long-awaited final 2,200-foot stretch of Centennial Avenue, which runs in front of of the site. It will complete a road project that began 40 years ago.
Centennial Square is proceeding at a time when the state's retail market, helped by an improving economy, is healthy, retail brokers said. They said that while some national retailers continue to file for bankruptcy -- including Rickels, the home-improvement chain -- others are expanding in the state or entering it.
At the same time, space left dark in centers in less than prime areas is being reconfigured for new users. As a result the retail vacancy rate for the north and central parts of the state is 7.5 percent, down slightly from the same time last year, according to the Schultz Brokerage Services group in Woodbridge.
"New Jersey is a targeted growth area for national companies and the reason is demographics," said Jonathan B. Schultz, president of the brokerage. "They are all fighting each other and the stronger well-capitalized public companies that need to expand to increase their market share are replacing weaker ones."
"Big box" retailers like Target, the discount department store chain, and Lowe's, a home-improvement chain, are among the new arrivals. Meanwhile, Wal-Mart continues to open new stores in the state.
Lowe's is making its first foray into the state with a 114,700-square-foot store, plus a 30,000-square-foot garden shop, at Centennial Square, which is being designed as a "power center." The International Council of Shopping Centers, based in Manhattan, defines such centers as an open-air retail strip with 250,000 to 750,000 square feet of space and three or more large specialty stores, also known as "category killers."
Another anchor tenant at the center will be Wal-Mart, which will open a 134,843-square-foot store. Sports Authority and Office Max have also committed to take 43,000 and 23,000 square feet, respectively, said Scott T. Loventhal, a vice president at Garden Homes Commercial. Financing for the $45-million project is coming from the company's own equity and a $30-million construction loan from Fleet Bank.
NATIONALLY, such shopping centers with three or more large stores and outdoor parking are growing, but not as rapidly as in the past, due in part to the consolidations and mergers of some national retailers, said Mark Schoifet, a spokesman for the Shopping Center Council. Last year 54 such power centers were built or started, compared to 75 the year before, according to Mr. Schoifet's group.
But in New Jersey, said Richard J. Brunelli, who heads a retail brokerage firm bearing his name in Old Bridge: "category killers are driving the construction of power centers in the state."
Within a 15-mile radius of the Piscataway project, for example, plans are being advanced for six other power centers, ranging in size from 200,000 to 750,000 square feet, Mr. Schultz said. Tough approval processes combined with the scarcity of properly zoned sites will temper the pace of new projects, he said, and Mr. Brunelli agreed.
The absence of those factors as issues at the Centennial Square project was among the reasons Garden Homes Commercial moved ahead, said Mr. Loventhal. "It is an opportunity to seize in a strong retail market," he said.
The concept of the power center also made sense, he added, "because what consumers look for today is price and convenience and these big-box retailers provide both."
The township rezoned the site at the start if this decade. And in 1994 it granted approvals to the earlier developer, the Gibraltar Development Corporation of Clearwater, Fla.
But the start of the project was stalled by a lawsuit was filed in Superior Court in Middlesex County by two nearby shopping center owners and a retailer, all in neighboring South Plainfield. Their suit contended, among other things, that in granting its approvals Piscataway's Planning Board did not adequately consider the traffic impact from the Centennial Square project.
After three years of litigation the court decided in favor of Piscataway and Gibraltar. Before the court's decision, a settlement had been reached with the retailer, a supermarket owner. Ultimately, however, Gibraltar decided not to develop the site.
When Garden Homes Commercial acquired the site it agreed, as part of the original approvals, to complete the final section of Centennial Avenue, which Mr. Loventhal said "will reduce congestion in the area." The new section will have four lanes, divided by a median, and two traffic lights.
He said that even though the site was between two regional shopping hubs -- the Bridgewater Commons Mall in Bridgewater and the Woodbridge Center in Woodbridge -- the demographics in the immediate area could support more retail activity. Some 300,000 people with an average household income of $58,000 live within a five-mile radius of the site, it is close to the Piscataway campus of Rutgers University and 155,000 cars pass the site each day, Mr. Loventhal said.
The demographics also appealed to Lowe's, which started its expansion into the New York metropolitan area last year.
"There is a tremendous amount of do-it-yourselfers and not a lot of alternatives for consumers," Clarissa S. Felts, a spokeswoman for Lowe's, said of her company's move into the area in general and to Piscataway in particular. The company, based in North Wilkesboro, N.C., is considered a competitor to Home Depot, which has a store a mile from Centennial Square.
Mr. Brunelli, the broker, said Centennial Square "should work" because it will provide convenient shopping to local consumers.
The project, designed by Silverstein Buckman, architects of North Brunswick, will comprise a group of six one-story buildings, instead of one L-shaped interconnecting strip of stores, spread over the irregularly shaped site. In addition to the four anchors there also will be some 20 smaller shops, of 3,000 to 7,000 square feet on average, Mr. Loventhal said.
Rents are to be $15 to $25 a square foot, he added, noting that the first stores are expected to open by Christmas of 1998, with the entire project set for completion the following spring.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of elements of the $45 million Centennial Square in Piscataway, which backs up to I-287. (Silverstein Buckman Architects)
 
Map showing the location of Piscataway, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; PISCATAWAY (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); HOME CENTERS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (88%); LITIGATION (78%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (71%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (68%); SECURITIES BROKERS (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); MARKET SHARE (61%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



232 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 9, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 1; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: Attack of the 90-Foot Teen-Agers

BYLINE: By LINDA LEE 

 BODY:
THIS is a quiz: Gavin, Leonardo and Claire, J. T. T; extra points if you can name all five Spice Girls; extra, extra points if you know Buffy the Vampire Slayer's last name.
If the answers come immediately to mind: Rossdale, the lead singer of Bush; two movie stars, DiCaprio and Danes; Jonathan Taylor Thomas from "Home Improvement," and Emma, Victoria, Mel C, Mel B and Geri, then there is no doubt you are very clued in, or under 17. (If you know that Buffy's last name is Summers, you've been watching too much WB.) 
 Just three or four years ago, pop music was dominated by angry rappers, and movies all starred some familiar 30-something face on the cusp of making $20 million per. Now, an epochal change seems to be taking place. A long-anticipated younger generation has taken control of the stick shift of pop culture (and with a full tank of gas; thanks, Mom and Dad!). Before you can say "MMMbop," they have shifted toward a blend of the 1950's and the millennium, with bright pop songs, interchangeable teen-age heartthrob stars and mindless yet ironic movies like "Starship Troopers," about giant bugs, and movies like "Scream," about slashers in the closet.
The most popular film in America for the last month has been "I Know What You Did Last Summer," a campy horror picture aimed at 15-to-20-year-olds that stars a new crop of heartthrobs, like Ryan Phillippe and Jennifer Love Hewitt. Angst-free, chart-topping pop by Hanson, the Backstreet Boys and the Spice Girls -- whose second album, "Spice World," was just released -- is back with a vengeance. Television shows like "Party of Five" and "Buffy" are stamping out legions of barely postpubescent actors.
Douglas Coupland, who labeled his age group with his 1991 book "Generation X," said he has noticed the proliferation of "all these seemingly modular kid units flattening out the media-scape."
"At the core of pop culture these days we find Mentos, Goosebumps and Hanson," he went on. "And that's fine. The kids have got their own thing going. Good. 'The edge' is over. Adults can stop wearing leather jackets now."
Although young idols come and go with each generation -- remember New Kids on the Block? David Cassidy? Fabian? -- what is notable about the newest wave is that idoldom itself has moved front and center in the culture, in a way not seen since the youthquake triggered by the baby boom in the 50's and 60's. That is no surprise, given that today's teen-agers are the boomers' children.
They are variously known as the echo boom (born after 1982, under the sign of Baby on Board), the baby boomlet or Generation Y. Why not just call them the Tamagotchi Generation? They like things technological and cute (like the 1995 movie "Babe"); they are open to the global marketplace and insist on their right to irony. And unlike the electronic pets called Tamagotchis, the Tamagotcheratis will never die as long as marketing people are willing to push their buttons.
"We've already seen the impact of the baby boomlet in recent years, with the phenomenal success of things like Power Rangers or Beanie Babies or Tamagotchis, where savvy marketers have been able to build billion-dollar businesses based on the baby boomlet through their kids' years," said Richard Leonard, a vice president of the Zandl Group in New York, which does market research on young people. "Now that they are teens, there are future opportunities."
School enrollment in America last year broke the record levels previously reached in 1972. This year, 52.2 million children are in school; high schools and junior high schools are overflowing.
In the early 90's, fan magazines for teen-agers like Tiger Beat went into a circulation slump, but the genre has bounced back, and new titles, like Twist and Jump, are springing up. In February, People will spin off Teen People.
"Right now, the teen market is exploding," said Lisa Lombardi, the editor in chief of Twist, whose second issue is on newsstands now. "There are going to be more teens in the next 10 years than in the last 25. And teen-age girls have a lot of disposable income."
Although both boys and girls buy movie tickets and CD's, teen-age magazines are read almost exclusively by girls. Boys may drool over Daisy Fuentes dressed in hip-huggers on MTV's "Singled Out," but they don't care about her favorite color. The hunger for such personal trivia, the province of the magazines, is mostly a craving of girls.
Antonia Pocock, 12, a seventh grader at Hunter High School in Manhattan, reads Seventeen, YM, Teen, Top Model and Mademoiselle. She knows who Mr. Phillippe is. "He's cute and a good actor," she said. And thanks to her magazines, she knows he is going to be in a movie next year called "Studio 54." She added helpfully, "It's about a club."
Three thousand miles away, and three years older, some media skepticism creeps in. Vanessa Silverton Peel, a 15-year-old in the ninth grade at the Oakwood School in Los Angeles, said: "The idea of what teen magazines are into is so far off. Every other word is 'babe.' The headlines are '101 Ways to Tell if He Likes You.' Not very often is there an article on preparing for the S.A.T.'s or something you would actually need. Their celebrities don't extend beyond Jared Leto and Jonathan Taylor Thomas, all the teen-age kids who are in bad sitcoms."
Still, she, too, is a fan of Mr. DiCaprio, the gold standard of heartthrobdom these days, whose new film, "Titanic," opens next month. She also watches "Sabrina, the Teen-Age Witch" on television and listens to Tori Amos, Jewel and Fiona Apple.
Ms. Pocock and Ms. Peel may be members of an emerging new mass audience. Remember the complaint that pop music was too fragmented? That was before rap turned softer and Hanson, the Spice Girls and Aqua, who had an out-of-nowhere hit with "Barbie Girl," arrived.
"Pop music is back," said Carmen Cacciatore, the East Coast senior director of artists and repertory for MCA, who signed Aqua for distribution in April. "Kids are getting upbeat, quirky, fun music coming through the radio."
Right now, the cycle is feel-good pop that dwells on perennial subjects like "Quit Playing Games (With My Heart)," from the Backstreet Boys; though at its strongest it takes on issues like being raped at 12, by Fiona Apple, who is 20.
"The music now is in contrast to Nirvana or grunge, all the Angst-driven stuff," said John McDaniel, 28, the music director of KNHC, a radio station that is part of the Seattle public school system. "A lot of the music now doesn't have a negative energy. It's fluffy. It seems more a lighter note."
Why no Angst, the staple of many earlier teen-agers' tunes? In their book "Generations" (1991), William Strauss and Neil Howe predicted that the generation born after 1982 would develop a wholesome, upbeat pop culture, partly because of their parents' reactions to the cynical pop embraced by Generation X. The new generation, Mr. Howe said, "is being taught to be good citizens, not to think too deeply about the issues."
Roger Rosenblatt, an essayist for Time magazine and "The News Hour With Jim Lehrer," sees it this way: "This generation doesn't have a war. The economy is good. They have drugs a bit, but it's not attached to anything important. They have no political agenda. They have created pop culture lite. The vacuity of this generation, its manifestation, or the parody of it as in 'Scream,' may all be a result of these young people wanting less."
The Tamagotchi generation -- for whom a serious crisis is "The cable's out!" -- clamors for hoots like "Scream," or the media-savvy cool of movies like "Clueless," the 1995 film that may mark the first expression of this cohort's buying power, or this year's "Men in Black," a knowing send-up of science fiction.
Music and movies are where new stars can zoom fastest into youth consciousness, but the new cable channels are creating teen-age stars, too. There are innumerable shows on WB, Fox and UPN (networks most people over 40 can't even find) that star inexpensive unknowns, this generation's Mouseketeers, in shows like "Party of Five." WB alone has "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," "Sister, Sister" and "Smart Guy," and in January will have "Dawson's Creek," already being hailed as the next "My So-Called Life," the show about high-school life that gave Ms. Danes her start. She has gone on to movies ("Romeo and Juliet") and awards shows (the VH1 Fashion Awards).
Bari Nan Cohen, the 24-year-old entertainment editor of YM magazine, who has seen the pilot episode of "Dawson's Creek" on tape, said: "I'm nuts about this show. It talks about the experience of being a teen-ager in high school in the most honest and direct way." Perhaps not coincidentally, "Dawson's Creek," which deals with issues like masturbation and romances with high school teachers, was written by Kevin Williamson, 32, who seems to be at the epicenter of the new culture. He also wrote "Scream" and "Scream 2," opening next month, and "I Know What You Did Last Summer."
Do baby boomers and Gen X'ers care about the teen-age idols? Yes, if the next Tom Cruise is among them. No, if Harrison Ford and Robert Redford will just keep making movies, and if Bob Marley's albums will continue to be released in new formats.
Paul Verhoeven is the director of "Starship Troopers," which opened on Friday and stars a new generation of potential idols, like Casper Van Dien. Mr. Verhoeven sat in a midtown restaurant in Manhattan recently and read down a list of 40 names of hot young stars, like Matt Damon, Brendan Sexton 3d, Melissa Joan Hart and Jared Leto.
"I only know 10 percent of those names," said the director, who admits that his two daughters, 23 and 25, have to clue him in on pop culture. His own film, he said, did not rely on stars. "Giant insects, that's the sell," he said.
But teen-age magazines put out 12 issues a year. Someone has to be on the cover, and it probably won't be a giant insect.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 15, 1997, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Sunday Styles this week about teen-agers and pop culture misidentified a host of the MTV show "Singled Out." She is Carmen Electra. (Daisy Fuentes is a former host of MTV's "House of Style.")

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fans of the group Hanson in front of the Beacon Theater at 74th Street and Broadway in Manhattan recently. Zing go the strings of young hearts: top left, the Backstreet Boys; top right, Jennifer Love Hewitt; above left, Claire Danes in "Polish Wedding"; above right, Casper Van Dien in "Starship Troopers." (Larry Busacca (Boys); Steve Smith/Outline (Hewitt); Fox Searchlight (Danes); Stephen Vaughan (Van Dien))(pg. 1); Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan Philippe in the wildly popular campy horror movie "I Know What You Did Last Summer." (James Bridges)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; MOTION PICTURES; MUSIC POP & ROCK (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM (89%); BABY BOOMERS (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); GENERATION X (74%); RAP MUSIC (72%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: LEE, LINDA JENNIFER LOVE HEWITT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1997



233 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: September Tool Orders Set High for Year So Far

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9

 BODY:
Domestic orders for machine tools rose 13.4 percent in September from the month before as manufacturers purchased more tools than in any month this year, an industry survey said.
Orders from American companies for machine tools produced in this country and abroad rose to an estimated $710 million in September from a revised estimate of $626 million in August, the Association for Manufacturing Technology and the American Machine Tool Distributors' Association reported. 
 Actual machine tool orders by American manufacturers, which are used to calculate the broader estimates, totaled 4,218 units in September, rising 13.4 percent to $525.30 million from a revised $463.25 million in August, the industry groups said.
The numbers indicate "continued and broad confidence in all sectors of our economy," Ralph J. Nappi, president of the machine tool association, said.
Machine tools are used to shape and assemble metal in products ranging from diesel engines to dishwashers. Analysts watch tool orders to gauge industrial output, consumer demand and business investment.
September's estimate pushed orders for the first nine months of this year to $6.1 billion. That is 12.6 percent higher than in the corresponding period a year earlier. Estimated orders for September were 8.2 percent below the $773 million estimated for September 1996.
The two industry groups originally estimated that August orders had risen 10.2 percent to $703 million.
September's gain was the third increase in five months, and in part reflected increased orders by small and medium-sized manufacturers, the association said.
Tool makers expect sales to rise the rest of this year and in 1998.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: ASSN FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY; AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSN AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS.COM INC (58%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS EXPORT GROUP (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY (57%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY STRATEGIES (57%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INC (57%); AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSN FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY; AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSN AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES MACHINE TOOLS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY WHOLESALERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



234 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Poor Workers Turning Down Employers' Health Benefits

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9

 BODY:
More Americans than ever are being offered health insurance through their jobs. Even so, a Government study finds, more and more workers, especially those who earn low wages, are declining to take the benefit.
The study, to be published on Monday in the journal Health Affairs, challenges assumptions that for the most part the 41 million Americans who are uninsured lack coverage because their employers do not offer it. 
 The study says that in the decade from 1987 to 1996, the percentage of all workers offered insurance grew to 75.4 percent from 72.4 percent but that the percentage of all workers holding it slipped to 60.4 percent from 63.9 percent.
That the number of uninsured Americans remains stubbornly high in spite of a robust economy poses a troublesome and costly challenge for Congress and the Clinton Administration.
The uninsured turn to charity for care or to Medicaid, the Federal-state insurance program for the poor and disabled. Just to try to cover half the nation's 10 million uninsured children, Congress and the White House have agreed to spend $24 billion over five years.
The new study "brings up a new dimension of the debate," said Paul R. Ginsburg, president of the Center for Health System Change, a research group in Washington. "The focus used to be, 'Why don't more firms offer insurance?' Now when we talk about the higher cost of health insurance, we also have to worry about the decisions of employees."
Barbara Steinberg Schone, an author of the study, said: "It's not enough to make sure there's access. We have to get workers to take up the coverage that's offered, and if they're not taking it up, we have to understand why they're not."
Ms. Schone and her co-author, Philip F. Cooper, economists at the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research in the Department of Health and Human Services, attributed workers' reluctance to buy insurance in part to their difficulty in paying their share of the premium.
They note that health insurance premiums leaped 90 percent from 1987 to 1993 while wages for all workers rose 28 percent and stagnated for the lowest-paid workers. The increase in health care costs has slowed sharply since, but wages, especially of the lowest-paid workers, have continued to lag.
As a result, Mr. Cooper and Ms. Schone report, 75.8 percent of workers earning $7 or less an hour signed up for insurance through their own job or a family member's last year, compared with 89.4 percent a decade ago.
They found a similar decline for workers younger than 25 and less acute declines for black and Hispanic workers -- all groups that earn less, on average, than adult white men. The study found no significant change in levels of insurance coverage among workers who are 55 or older or those earning more than $10 an hour: about 90 percent of those workers are covered.
Twenty years ago, said Paul Fronstin, a research associate at the Employee Benefit Research Institute here, workers merely signed up for insurance. Employers who offered it paid the full cost.
Typically today, he said, a worker contributes $1,596 a year for subsidized family coverage by a health maintenance organization, or $396 to insure only himself. For someone making $7 an hour, the contribution for the family policy is 11 percent of the worker's total wages.
"Some don't want to pay for it," Mr. Fronstin said. "Some can't afford it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LABOR; HEALTH INSURANCE RESEARCH REPORTS (94%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); WRITERS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



235 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: His Congress Says No, No, Zedillo

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 9

 BODY:
President Ernesto Zedillo, who likes to take credit for steering Mexico through a democratic transition, is learning the virtues of patience as he deals with a Congress that fell under opposition control in July for the first time in seven decades.
Mr. Zedillo adopted a long-suffering look earlier this fall when an opposition lawmaker, responding to the President's state of the union message, told him bluntly on national television, "Every one of us is equal to you." 
 Now Mr. Zedillo has a new headache: getting foreign travel plans approved. The 1917 Constitution, reflecting a legal tradition dating back to when a similar restriction was placed on Spanish monarchs, bars the President from leaving Mexico without congressional authorization. But no modern President has faced problems getting rubber-stamp approval.
Last week, however, Congress exerted its authority on this matter, too. Mr. Zedillo sent a single request to Congress to make four presidential trips. After considerable debate, the Congress voted a green light for him to travel to Venezuela for a summit meeting of Latin American presidents over the weekend and to the United States, where he is to meet President Clinton on Friday.
But lawmakers rejected Mr. Zedillo's request to travel to an economic summit meeting in Vancouver, Canada, later this month and to Nicaragua in December.
The Congress said it would reconsider the rejected requests if Mr. Zedillo provides more information.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); NICARAGUA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); SPAIN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); CANADA (50%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (50%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (94%); NICARAGUA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); SPAIN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); CANADA (50%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (50%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (50%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICS (79%); APPROVALS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); 

PERSON: ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON, ERNESTO (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



236 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Newly Elected Opposition to Fight Zedillo's Budget

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 9

 BODY:
President Ernesto Zedillo could face the greatest political test of his presidency starting this week as opposition lawmakers, in control of Congress for the first time in recent history, try to challenge his economic policies by rewriting Mexico's 1998 budget.
The $100 billion budget that Mr. Zedillo is to present to Congress on Tuesday would continue the tight-money, export-oriented policies that have helped nurse Mexico's economy to recovery after its near-collapse three years ago. 
 But lawmakers in the lower house of Congress, which the Constitution empowers to "review and approve" the budget, have said they intend to make sweeping changes.
They want to raise the salaries of Mexico's 2.5 million public employees, sharply increase money for schools, hospitals and farm support programs, triple federal revenues shared with the country's 2,400 towns and 31 states and finance a relief program for millions of Mexicans swamped by debt. At the same time, the opposition lawmakers say they intend to cut taxes.
The stakes for the United States are large any time basic economic policies are debated here. Mexico is America's third largest trading partner, after Canada and Japan, and hundreds of thousands of workers cross into the United States when production slows at Mexico's factories and farms.
In recent days, Mr. Zedillo has attacked the opposition's proposals as unrealistic "populism." Government economists have warned that since tax revenues have plummeted in the three years since a 1994 devaluation of the peso, the Government cannot increase spending much without creating huge budget deficits.
But opposition leaders say they are determined to reorder Government priorities after years of austerity during which Mexico's minimum wage has plunged to $3 a day and classrooms and hospital emergency rooms have crumbled into disrepair.
"We intend to make deep corrections in this budget," said Rogelio Sada Zambrano, economic affairs coordinator in the lower house for the National Action Party, known by the acronym PAN, known for its pro-business views. "We intend to confront the enormous deterioration in Mexicans' quality of life, and the vast breach between the haves and the have-nots."
The challenge to Mr. Zedillo may come as a surprise to Wall Street. After the opposition victory in the July 6 elections, several financial analysts and newsletters predicted, incorrectly, that the President could easily protect his economic policies by renewing the Government's informal alliance with the PAN, which has supported free-market reforms under both Mr. Zedillo and his predecessor, Carlos Salinas de Gortari.
But so far the PAN has instead allied itself with the three other opposition parties in a bloc known as the Group of Four. Together, the opposition parties won 262 of the 500 seats in the lower house. Mr. Zedillo's Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, has 238 seats.
How long the opposition alliance will last is unclear. The roots of the largest opposition parties, the PAN and the Party of the Democratic Revolution, or P.R.D., reach back into a history of ideological enmity.
Manuel Gomez Morin, who helped found the PAN in 1939 during the presidency of Lazaro Cardenas, who nationalized Mexico's oil fields, was a fierce critic of Mr. Cardenas's view that government should play a central role in the economy. The P.R.D. was founded in 1987 by Mr. Cardenas's son, Cuauhtemoc, and others to give new expression to Lazaro Cardenas's ideas.
But many of the PAN's 121 newly elected congressmen are ranchers, small-town professionals or presidents of business groups, elected by farmers angry with Mr. Zedillo's economic policies because they cannot get agricultural credit or by homeowners drowning in mortgage debt.
Aides to Mr. Zedillo have expressed surprise at the strong views among many PAN deputies.
"We're seeing a lot more populism in the PAN than we expected," a senior Government official said. "Many deputies are real zealots."
The opposition parties have failed so far to reach formal agreement on any common statement of budget priorities. But their congressional leaders speak in similar terms about raising spending, lowering taxes and using the budget process to change Mr. Zedillo's economic policies.
"We intend to make changes that will allow us to use the budget as a fundamental factor in national development, strengthening the internal market, better distributing national income, and increasing salaries," said Ricardo Garcia Sainz, the P.R.D. chairman of the lower house's powerful budget committee.
The opposition parties also share a commitment to work together to attack the Zedillo Administration's bailouts of the financial and highway systems, which have channeled billions of dollars to Mexico's biggest banks and construction companies.
How do they intend to pay for all the new spending? Several opposition lawmakers said they expected that vast savings could be found by eliminating secret budgets used by PRI governments for supplementary salaries, unnecessary spending on travel and other items they see as waste. They have proposed in talks with Treasury officials that 3 of 14 ministries be eliminated.
Perhaps the most popular idea among all the opposition parties is to cut taxes, especially the value added tax, which Mr. Zedillo and PRI lawmakers increased during the 1995 financial crisis.
Voicing an argument made by Republicans in the Reagan Administration, Mr. Garcia Sainz, Mr. Sada and other opposition politicians have asserted recently that reducing the tax, which has suppressed consumption by increasing prices, could actually result in increased tax revenues.
But a study by officials in the Tax Administration Service, the Mexican equivalent of the Internal Revenue Service, concluded that reducing the value added tax from 15 to 10 percent, as the opposition has advocated, would cost the Treasury about $3 billion a year. Eliminating the three ministries, the study found, would save only about $360 million.
Jorge A. Chavez Presa, the Treasury Under Secretary who has been holding talks with the Congress, complained that opposition lawmakers "don't understand the word 'tradeoff,' the idea that if you gain something it will cost you something."
"They say to us, 'Lower the taxes, and I also want you to increase the spending,' " Mr. Chavez said. "They want lemon sherbet, watermelon sherbet, raspberry sherbet. We say, 'But you can only have one.' They say, 'No, I want all three.' "
The opposition leaders shrug off the criticism.
"We're entering a new era in which the executive isn't going to impose laws on us," said Porfirio Munoz Ledo, the P.R.D. leader in Congress. "We're going to change the economic model."
"When the Government gives resources to the poor, everybody condemns it as populism," he said. "But when they transfer Government funds to the rich, what's that called? Rich-ism?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (65%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUDGETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); TRENDS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX RELIEF (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (68%); DEVALUATION (64%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM; ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON, ERNESTO (PRES) ERNESTO ZEDILLO (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



237 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Reading the Landscape of the New West

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG 

 BODY:
Between Casper, Wyo., and Denver, Colo., Interstate 25 bends through several landscapes, each distinctively Western. Some are agricultural, like the plowed ground near Wheatland, Wyo. Others, like the stretch south of Douglas, Wyo., have the wide-open look of high grassland rising into rimrock and pines. Whenever I drive this road, I'm struck by the forgotten complexity of a terrain I thought I knew well. Each new vista seems to offer something surprising -- an enormous power plant set in a Frederic Remington landscape, a trio of 55-gallon drums laid out in a dry riverbed by a die-hard barrel racer or, most surprising of all, the spareness that is still this region's most characteristic feature.
Near the Colorado border, I-25 crosses I-80. The country looks the same south of that landmark, but everything else has changed. The volume of traffic swells. I-25 becomes a spillway of vehicles sluicing toward Denver and Colorado Springs. Even the look of the traffic changes, becoming less and less rural and more and more Californian -- fewer rusting stock trailers and more BMW's. Housing developments begin to march across the horizon. The foreground becomes a blur of commercial real estate signs. Downtown Denver is still an hour away. 
 A shift has been taking place all across the interior West, a region that has grown faster than the rest of the country for most of this decade. The changes are as much a matter of sensibility as they are of demographics -- the emergence of a New West out of what has been, for some time now, not quite the West of old. I can savor the difference by driving from Dixon, N.M., to Santa Fe or from Three Forks, Mont., to Bozeman. It surfaces when I buy an espresso in Sheridan, Wyo. -- a state where the coffee used to be as weak as the politics is strong -- or check my E-mail from a truck stop that also sells replacement parts for cattle prods. The pattern of these changes, palpable to anyone who lives in or merely loves the West, have now been captured in a new study released by the Center of the American West at the University of Colorado. It is called "Atlas of the New West" and published by W. W. Norton.
What this atlas portrays are the cultural, economic and social dimensions of a major population shift whose meaning is just beginning to be understood. Its causes are at once obvious and yet so elusive that William Riebsame, the atlas's general editor, writes, "The West's current boom . . . seems different than past migrations and is difficult to characterize." There is no shortage of easy explanations, the kind I hear at feed stores and fly-fishing shops alike. "Californians," some people say. "Easterners,"' say others. Everyone else blames retirees or snowboarders. They are all correct.
The American West has geographical borders, of course, but its real borders are mythological. Their erosion brings with it a real uneasiness, even if the myth of the West -- that paradise for the self-reliant -- was never really accurate. I always took it for granted that the West's economy rested on mining and ranching. But in the New West, "Less than 1 percent of employment . . . is supported by mining, and only .06 percent of jobs are associated with ranching," the atlas reports. One way to glimpse the West is to count, as this atlas does, the number of professional rodeos. But an altogether different picture emerges if you map, as this atlas also does, the airstrips capable of serving private jets or the Orvis franchises and Land Rover dealerships.
What does the West look like if you chart all the Hispanic radio stations and gay newspapers? What if you map all the breweries, microbreweries and home-brew clubs, as well as the places where you can buy The New York Times? What if you map the New Age outposts and cowboy poetry festivals? What if you color in all the land within 10 miles of paved highway? What you get, of course, is a still-frame version of the ambiguity of reality itself, a reality that inspires the people of the New West and at the same time sticks in their craw.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: ATLAS OF THE NEW WEST (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); SHERIDAN, WY, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); CASPER, WY, USA (73%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO W W NORTON & CO INC (51%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); WYOMING, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (94%); SHERIDAN, WY, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); CASPER, WY, USA (73%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); POPULATION DECLINE (72%); RODEOS (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); LITERATURE (64%); LIVESTOCK FEED (61%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (60%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (51%); SPORT FISHING (50%); 

PERSON: KLINKENBORG, VERLYN

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



238 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: PENTAGON TO TRIM THOUSANDS OF JOBS HELD BY CIVILIANS

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9

 BODY:
Under pressure from Congress to reduce the Pentagon's bureaucracy before ordering more cuts in troops or weapons, Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen plans to trim thousands of civilian jobs at the Pentagon and transfer thousands more military personnel out of their headquarters and into the field, officials said.
The reductions, which Mr. Cohen and Vice President Al Gore are to announce on Monday, are part of what the officials said would be a sweeping plan to reorganize the Pentagon's bureaucracy, to streamline operations and to otherwise save money that could then be better spent developing new weaponry. 
 As part of the plan, Mr. Cohen will also revive the Clinton Administration's request to hold two more rounds of base closings, in 2001 and 2005. Earlier this year, Congress refused to authorize two new rounds, with lawmakers arguing that the Administration had to do more to save money elsewhere before shutting bases that offer enormous economic benefits to their constituents.
Altogether the plan, called the Defense Reform Initiative, could save as much as $6 billion a year in the Pentagon's budget, which this year totals about $250 billion, according to the officials, who discussed details on the condition of anonymity.
"Looking downstream, we don't have enough money and won't have enough money to pay for the weapons we need," one official said today. "The only way to get more money is to try to squeeze it out of the other parts of the operation."
Much of the plan, particularly the proposal for new rounds of base closings, will require Congressional approval. And that, by no means, is assured.
Senator Strom Thurmond, the South Carolina Republican who is the chairman of the Senate Committee on Armed Services, said today that he would certainly work with Mr. Cohen to reduce the Pentagon's bureaucracy but would not support cuts that "hamper national security." He also said it was "unfortunate" that Mr. Cohen planned to propose more base closings.
"We're just getting over some of the other base closings we've had in the past," Mr. Thurmond said.
Over the next five years, the plan would eliminate 30,000 administrative jobs out of about 140,000. Civilians holding those jobs would be let go, either through attrition or layoffs, while military personnel in those positions would be reassigned to duty elsewhere.
The reductions would cut the Office of the Secretary of Defense by a third over the next 18 months, to 2,000 jobs from 3,000. Over five years they would eliminate 27,000 jobs from the 130,000 at the 13 defense agencies that provide support to the armed services, like the Defense Intelligence Agency and the Defense Finance and Accounting Service.
On the military side, an additional 2,500 jobs would be reassigned from administrative duties. The Office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and its related staff would be cut by 29 percent, reducing a total of 2,600 jobs to about 1,950 over the next five years. In addition, 10 percent of the 18,000 troops and officers assigned to military headquarters around the nation and the world would be reassigned to combat rather than administrative duties.
Those cuts, one official said, represented "an effort to get more people out of headquarters and into the field."
Mr. Cohen's plan comes six months after he presented the Quadrennial Defense Review, which is supposed to be a strategic blueprint for the military in the 21st century. That review was heavily criticized because it made no dramatic changes in battlefield doctrine and eliminated no weapons programs. It did call for still more cuts in active-duty troops, bringing the total to below 1.4 million, down from 2.1 million at the end of the cold war.
The Defense Secretary ordered up the new plan, the officials said, because he wanted to turn attention to changing the Pentagon's administrative bureaucracy, including civilian and military workers, as well as the support services that many believe are inefficient or duplicative.
It remains to be seen how effectively the cuts will be imposed, since bureaucracies often have a way of resisting them. The officials also acknowledged that the Pentagon has thousands of hidden jobs, which are not part of the administrative budget but financed elsewhere in the Government. Some of those jobs are evidently among the ones slated for elimination.
But in keeping with an overriding mantra of Government these days, a senior Defense official involved in the plan's preparation said it would help the Pentagon operate more like a business. "We are still a 1960's organization operating in the 1990's," the official said.
The plan was assembled by a committee appointed by Mr. Cohen that included executives from private industry. The committee was headed by John J. Hamre, who took over as Deputy Secretary of Defense in July after serving as the department's chief financial officer since 1993.
Beyond eliminating positions, the plan would restructure the Department of Defense itself, creating one new agency to oversee defense security and another to oversee treaty compliance and threat reduction. This move would consolidate agencies and eliminate one of the department's 13 assistant secretaries.
The plan aims to increase reliance on computers, eliminating the use of paper in contracts and financial services by 2000. And it would allow private companies to bid against Government workers to provide services from utilities to payroll.
Mr. Cohen is unveiling these proposals now, the officials said, to get a head start on next year's budget, which the Pentagon and the Administration will prepare in January. After criticism last spring that Mr. Cohen was not doing enough to remake the Pentagon, the officials appeared eager to discuss details of the plan to draw attention to these efforts.
Many of the changes are not likely to generate opposition in Congress, but the base closings, which would eventually make up a third of the $6 billion in annual projected savings, have a dim fate at best.
In the first four rounds -- in 1988, 1991, 1993 and 1995 -- the Pentagon closed or realigned 152 major bases and 235 smaller installations on the recommendation of bipartisan commissions. While some of these bases remain open as they slowly phase out of existence, the closings and loss to the local economy have shaken a lot of towns around the country, not to mention their representatives in Washington.
Mr. Cohen's newest proposal would put off any new closings until after Mr. Clinton leaves office.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: The Planned Cuts"
A plan to be announced by Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen today would reduce administrative jobs throughout the Pentagon and at military headquarters around the nation and the world over the next 18 months to five years. Percentages may not match figures because personnel data are approximate.
 
At the Office of the Secretary of Defense: 1,000 out of 3,000 (33%)
 
At the 13 defense agencies: 27,000 out of 130,000 (21%)
 
At smaller agencies in the Department of Defense: 2,800 of 8,000 (36%)(pg. A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LAYOFFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CLOSINGS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); ACCOUNTING (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEC); MYERS, STEVEN LEE; THURMOND, STROM (SEN) AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



239 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Troubled Economy Stirs Fears in South Korea

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Nov. 7

 BODY:
Relaxing on a couch in the basement of the upscale department store he manages, Kwak Yang Seo sat back and mused that because of this country's long economic boom, he has never known anybody who lost a job.
"Yet," he quickly added. 
 Mr. Kwak may soon have the opportunity to broaden the spectrum of his acquaintances. His department store company -- New Core, the 25th-largest conglomerate in South Korea -- entered bankruptcy proceedings a few days ago, and Mr. Kwak may have to start laying people off. Indeed, he may himself be laid off.
"I never expected a big company like this to go bankrupt," Mr. Kwak reflected, shaking his head in bewilderment. And heads like his are shaking all over South Korea as one of the most miraculous of Asia's miracle economies finds itself foundering -- pessimists say sinking -- in a turbulent sea of bankruptcies, bad debts and tight credit.
The South Korean currency fell to a record low today, just as the stock exchange was setting its own record for biggest one-day plunge, with the leading market index dropping 6.9 percent. The stock market has now lost more than half its value in the last two years; a record number of bankruptcies is expected this year, and, most wounding of all, there are growing whispers in international financial circles that South Korea could become "the next Thailand."
Most economists and business executives predict that South Korea will eventually make it to dry land again, perhaps emerging stronger for the experience. But the economic turmoil that swept through Asia was so swift and stunning that some wonder aloud whether South Korea could be the next economy to implode.
"You guess on the basis of past performance that they'll probably muddle through," William H. Overholt, a managing director in Hong Kong for Bankers Trust, said of the South Koreans. "But you wake up late at night and wonder, 'What if they don't?' "
While most experts, particularly those living in South Korea, think that a catastrophe will be averted, there is no doubt that a tumble by South Korea would reverberate around the globe. In contrast to Thailand, which was at the center of the last round of trouble, South Korea is an industrialized economy, the 11th-largest in the world, with $110 billion in foreign debt and industrial giants like Samsung, Daewoo and Hyundai.
Over all, South Korea's economy is two and a half times the size of Thailand's, and its trade is more than twice as great. Western banks are far more extended to South Korean companies than to Thai institutions, and there is also a security dimension: 37,000 American troops are based in South Korea to deter an attack by a North Korean Government that many think is always sniffing for weakness in the South.
Such links make bankers like Mr. Overholt nervous and raise fears of a chain reaction that would topple South Korean banks and set off a global banking and market crisis.
"Problems in Thailand and Indonesia could be the straw that breaks the back of a Korean bank, and a couple of Korean banks going under could be the straw that breaks the back of a Japanese bank, and then it starts to get really interesting," Mr. Overholt said.
Still, no one has ever made money for long betting against South Korea. South Korea's success is legendary, its per capita income rising from $90 in 1961 to more than $10,000 today. South Korea still has tremendous strengths, and for all the talk of recession, the economy this year is still expected to register growth of about 6 percent.
The parallels with Thailand that worry some experts are overextended and overleveraged businesses, mountain ranges of bad debt, weak political leadership, meager foreign currency reserves and a sagging currency that raises the cost of repaying foreign debt. But the experts and South Korean officials alike emphasize that the differences between the two countries are enormous.
"Korea is Korea; Thailand is Thailand," noted Finance Minister Kang Kyong Shik, weary of the comparison. In an interview in his office in the National Assembly, not far from the glittering towers of Seoul's financial district, Mr. Kang argued that South Korea was in far healthier shape than Thailand or some other Southeast Asian countries.
One key difference is that Thailand had enjoyed a huge speculative bubble that simply popped. In contrast, South Korean real estate prices never inflated as they did in Bangkok or Tokyo.
A second is that Thailand and other countries tried to defend a dollar-pegged exchange rate that had become unsustainable. In contrast, the South Korean won is not pegged to any currency and fell 8 percent last year and 15 percent more so far this year against the dollar.
At this exchange rate, South Korea is becoming much more competitive in foreign markets, setting off an export surge that is cutting the current account deficit. Partly because of that surge, there are signs that South Korea is beginning to recover.
So why the sense of crisis?
One fundamental reason is that for decades risk taking has always paid off in South Korea in an economy bouncing along at annual growth rates of 10 percent. Conglomerates -- or chaebol, in Korean -- tended to finance their growth by borrowing rather than by issuing stocks or bonds, so they are highly leveraged.
But at the same time that South Korean companies were building vast factories, they were facing a domestic slowdown and growing competition from imports as the Government gradually lowered trade barriers. In addition, South Korea lost competitiveness in foreign markets against countries like Japan and Mexico, whose currencies fell against the dollar and whose products therefore became cheaper.
So far this year, 7 of the nation's 30 biggest chaebol have sought bankruptcy protection. Those bankruptcies and others have rippled into the banking sector. South Korean banks have long had their own shortcomings -- like virtually no serious credit analysis of potential borrowers. Banks traditionally tended to shovel cash in whatever area the Government directed them.
"They do not evaluate," said Jung Yong Seung, an economist at the Korea Institute for Industrial Economics and Trade. "They just lend."
By official reckoning, about 6 percent of all bank loans are substandard or nonperforming, but Do Sang Youl, a bank analyst at Hyundai Securities, estimates that by American accounting standards the proportion at the nationwide banks would rise to an astonishing 30 percent.
"It's very difficult for us to estimate the bad loans because the accounting is not transparent," Mr. Do complained.
The mounting bad debts have caused tight credit for South Korean businesses, with local and foreign banks alike reluctant to lend. The bad debts have also led people to wonder aloud whether South Korea could become the center of a new foreign debt crisis.
One worrisome sign is that South Korea's foreign-exchange reserves are only $30 billion, and some of that apparently is committed in foreign- exchange contracts that will soon become payable. This level of reserves is equal to less than the three months of imports that are normally considered prudent.
The broader challenge for South Korea is to revamp itself to become a more nimble and market-oriented economy. But South Korea has strong unions that are particularly wary of economic liberalization. Union leaders like Kim Chul Hong, the affable 38-year-old president of the union at Housing and Commercial Bank, are accustomed to steady income gains and are horrified by calls for layoffs and reorganization.
Mr. Kim, who is leading a strike at the bank, is demanding pay increases and assurances that there will be no job cuts. He argues that the banks are not in grave difficulties and that in any case the Government will always bail them out.
"Obviously the bankruptcy of a commercial bank would cause big problems," he said. "But while this may happen overseas, this is highly unlikely in a major city like Seoul."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Korean Stocks Higher
 SEOUL, South Korea, Monday, Nov. 10 (Reuters) -- Trying to recover from a selloff last week, stocks were trading higher here today, after the Government said it would announce stabilizing measures this week. At midday, the Korean composite index was up 26.60 points, or 5.37 percent, at 522.30.
In Japan, the Nikkei index of 225 issues ended the morning down 44.35 points, or three-tenths of 1 percent, at 15,792.01. On Friday, the Nikkei fell 697.51 points, or 4.22 percent.
 In Hong Kong at midday, the Hang Seng index was down 55.80 points, or 0.55 percent, at 10,048.70. On Friday, the index lost nearly 3 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Worried South Koreans are looking for reassurance. A sign carried by Kim Chul Hong, leader of a union that is on strike against a bank, read: "We can't live with this anxiety. Guarantee our job security." (Nicholas Kristof/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); THAILAND (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; THAILAND; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); THAILAND (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CREDIT INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); TRENDS (70%); BONDS (66%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



240 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Gambling in the Middle of Nowhere;
Oneidas' Casino Wins Without Slots or Eastern Seaboard

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: VERONA, N.Y.

 BODY:
When the tiny Oneida Indian Nation opened the Turning Stone casino here in the heart of New York's corn and dairy country in 1993, many people scoffed at the notion that it would ever approach the raw earning power of Las Vegas's gaudy temples of gambling.
Situated 30 miles east of Syracuse, Turning Stone is half a time zone from the gambler-rich Eastern seaboard. A bunker-like structure barely visible above the surrounding farmland, it was surprisingly muted, with a neon-free interior topped by a skylight that actually allowed gamblers to distinguish night from day. It did not serve alcohol. And, most important, New York State law did not allow it to have slot machines, by far the most profitable of gambling games. 
 But Turning Stone is proving that when it comes to slaking the public's seemingly endless thirst for high-stakes gambling, location and image aren't everything.
Though the Oneidas do not make their earnings public, gambling industry analysts say that Turning Stone, the state's only casino, is among the country's most successful, with annual revenues of several hundreds of millions. And with nearly three million visitors in 1996, it has become one of upstate New York's biggest tourist attractions, lagging not far behind venerable Niagara Falls in star power.
"They do phenomenal numbers," said Jason Ader, a gambling industry analyst with Bear, Stearns & Company. "Slots is where most casinos make 70 percent of their profits. But if you just look at table games, on a per table basis, Turning Stone is up there with Mirage, Foxwoods."
The signs of the Oneidas' new prosperity are plentiful. They are now the largest employer in Oneida County, with 2,800 workers, 90 percent of whom are non-Indians. Once consigned to a 32-acre reservation, the 1,100-member tribe has acquired nearly 5,000 acres of land, which is monitored by its own 43-member police force. The tribe has opened a T-shirt printing plant, bought a cattle farm and built tribal housing and community centers. When it holds ribbon-cutting events, state senators and members of Congress routinely show up.
Now, in what is perhaps their crowning capitalistic achievement, the Oneidas have opened a 285-room, $50 million hotel adjacent to the casino that includes an expanded gambling area, luxury boutiques and some of the fanciest restaurants in the region. Next door, an 18-hole golf course is taking shape and could open in 1998. A convention center is on the drawing boards. All this, the Oneidas say, is being done without partners, with only bank loans backed by their own profits.
The Oneidas' building boom is being fueled by two concerns: first, that Congress may someday rescind the law that has made it possible for Indians to open casinos, and second, that their upstate New York-northern Pennsylvania market is falling prey to Canadian casinos in Niagara Falls and Montreal. The Mohawk tribe is also considering opening casinos on its New York reservation along the St. Lawrence River.
"They are building as fast as they can and as big as they can, so whoever comes along later has to play a big game of catch-up," said Matt Connor, features editor of International Gaming and Wagering Business, a monthly trade magazine.
Ray Halbritter, the suave, Harvard-trained Oneida leader who also carries the title C.E.O. of Nation Enterprises, resorts to a tribal aphorism to explain his goal for building an entertainment empire. "Even if gambling did not exist, we would want to be a tourist destination," he said. "We're looking to the seventh generation."
Comparing his casino's blackjack tables to his forefathers' land, Mr. Halbritter said, "We always believed the great greed of the non-Indian people would someday close this door to prosperity." He added, "Everybody is happy if Indians are broke."
A stroll through the new hotel on an October Friday night provided abundant evidence that the Oneidas are anything but broke these days. The hotel was booked and the gambling areas were crowded. People lined up for two hours outside the casino's nightclub for a Chubby Checker concert. Truck drivers in jeans and baseball caps chewed on hamburgers at the casino's 50's style diner, while more fashionably dressed couples browsed through the designer clothing and Waterford crystal in one of the boutiques.
Many people were local residents who said they come to the casino regularly because it is the best source of night life for miles around. "What else is there to do?" asked Kathleen Miller, 52, of Rome, N.Y. "Go malling?"
An Italian visitor said to a cashier, "This is an oasis in the middle of a wasteland."
With the hotel, the Oneidas expect to draw gamblers from more distant cities like Pittsburgh or Boston. They have infused a bit more pizazz into their operation, putting neon lights in the gambling areas and adding stage shows with dancing girls to their entertainment repertoire. They are considering ending their ban on alcohol, which was instituted to underscore the problem of alcoholism among Indians. And they may even remove the skylight in the old gambling area, which was emblematic of the original casino's unorthodox style. Most casinos do not have clocks or windows, in the hope that gamblers will lose track of how long they have been playing.
"We wanted to build something that could compete with the market," Mr. Halbritter said. "This is new, it's glitzier, it's glamorous."
Aware that their prosperity might breed resentment among neighbors, the Oneidas have made some efforts to share their wealth. Though the nation contends that all its new real estate is tax exempt, it has begun paying local school districts and municipalities more than $320,000 a year under a program called the Silver Covenant Chain of Friendship. And they have pledged to spend $750,000 on a campaign promoting the region's tourist attractions.
Not everyone is impressed. Assemblyman David R. Townsend Jr., a Republican from Oriskany, said in an interview Nov. 7 that the Oneida casino had not spurred the creation of new businesses in the region, but had taken commerce away from existing stores and restaurants. And the Silver Covenant program has not replaced the tax dollars the Oneidas have drained by taking prime real estate off the tax rolls, he said.
"The only thing that has opened since the casino went in was a car wash down the road from them," he said. "And now the Indians are building a car wash, so they'll put this guy out of business, too."
But people working at the casino and hotel said they were grateful to have found jobs in this hardscrabble, high-unemployment region.
"I was so happy I was accepted for this job," said Lisa Santillo, 28, of Herkimer, who works behind the hotel's registration desk. "If you're looking for anything other than minimum wage jobs around here, you won't find it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ray Halbritter, the Oneidas' leader, said of their finances, "We're looking to the seventh generation." Right, the tribal flag. Turning Stone, New York State's only casino. Gambling analysts say it is one of the most successful in the United States. (Photographs by Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times) (pg. B1); Turning Stone lies in the heart of New York's corn and dairy country. Unlike gambling palaces in Las Vegas, the casino has a skylight that allows gamblers to distinguish night from day, and it does not serve alcohol. (Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 
Map showing the location of Verona, N.Y.: Turning Stone casino had nearly three million visitors last year. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ONEIDA TRIBE; TURNING STONE CASINO (NYS) BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: ONEIDA TRIBE; TURNING STONE CASINO (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; VERONA (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; SLOT MACHINES; INDIANS, AMERICAN; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES GAMING (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CASINOS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); GOLF (76%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (68%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (67%); POLICE FORCES (61%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



241 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Economic Angst in Seoul
Asia's economic turmoil has shaken South Koreans, who worry that their once-mighty economy will be the next to fall. Page A3.
 
Turning Down Benefits
More Americans are being offered health insurance through work, but many turn it down. Page A24. 

Bypassing Blocked Arteries
In a small study, gene therapy helped patients with hopelessly blocked blood vessels to grow their own bypasses. Page A24.
 
Defying the Juggernaut
Netscape, which until recently appeared to be in decline, is proving to be a tough competitor in a Microsoft-dominated world. Page D1.
 
Sharpton Weighs Next Race
The Rev. Al Sharpton is being urged to oppose a House Democrat who backed Mayor Giuliani. Page B3.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (91%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (85%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (54%); 

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (66%); RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



242 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
After Days of Deal-Making Trade Bill Is Still in Limbo
Still short of votes after working through the weekend, President Clinton and his Republican allies decided early this morning to delay for a second time a House vote on expanded trade negotiating authority to the President. The decision potentially gave Mr. Clinton another few days to salvage legislation he has called crucial to the economic health of the country. But it was not clear how Mr. Clinton could round up the votes that had eluded him all weekend. A1
 
Clinton Urges Stand on Iraq
President Clinton urged the United Nations to take "very strong and unambiguous action" to force Iraq to comply with international weapons inspections. The President also warned Iraq not to follow through on threats to attack American spy planes on United Nations missions. Iraq halted the inspection teams for a seventh day. The Security Council is to meet today to consider its response. A1 

Asia's Next Economic Crisis
There are growing whispers in international financial circles that South Korea, one of the most miraculous of Asia's miracle economies, could become "the next Thailand." The country has found itself floundering in a turbulent sea of bankruptcies, bad debts and tight credit. A3
 
No Meeting for Netanyahu?
In an apparent sign of Washington's displeasure with the pace of peace talks, no meeting has been planned between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and President Clinton next week during Mr. Netanyahu's scheduled visit to the United States. Mr. Netanyahu's aides sought to play down the omission, but Israeli leaders have rarely visited without a call on the President. A6
 
Turkey Frees a Critic
The Turkish Government yielded to intense pressure and released a blind social critic, Esber Yagmurdereli, who began serving a 23-year prison term last month. Turkey said it was releasing him on health grounds, but the Anatolian news agency said the sentence had been "suspended for one year." A5
 
Buenos Aires's Honest Mayor
Promising to curb corruption, Fernando de la Rua became the first elected Mayor of Buenos Aires last year, a post previously appointed by the President. Since then, he has carried out a crackdown virtually unprecedented in a country where bribes, payoffs and kickbacks are part of everyday life. A11
 
Budget Battle in Mexico
Mexico's President, Ernesto Zedillo, could face the greatest fight of his presidency this week from opposition lawmakers who want to challenge his economic policies. The opposition, which has control of Congress for the first time in modern history, said it wants to make sweeping changes in Mr. Zedillo's budget for 1998, including pay increases and tax cuts. A10
 
NATIONAL A14-28
 
Major Civilian Cuts Planned for Pentagon
Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen plans to trim thousands of civilian jobs at the Pentagon and transfer thousands more military personnel out of their headquarters and into the field, officials said. The reductions, which are to be announced today, are part of what the officials said would be a sweeping plan to reorganize the Pentagon. Altogether, the plan could save as much as $6 billion a year in the Pentagon's budget, which this year totals about $250 billion. A1
 
Unabom Trial to Begin
As the trial begins this week against Theodore J. Kaczynski on charges that he was the Unabomber, his lawyers must contend with an extraordinary trove of prosecution evidence found in his cabin, including detailed entries from his journals like "I mailed that bomb." A1
 
Confirmation in Doubt
Republicans said they were holding up confirmation of President Clinton's nominee for Surgeon General, Dr. David Satcher, because of concerns among conservative senators that he was not sufficiently opposed to certain types of late-term abortion. The nomination of Dr. Satcher, now the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, had at first been well received among members of Congress. A22
 
R.N.C. Campaign Details
Bank documents that have emerged following the Senate hearings on campaign finance abuses reveal new details of a plan by the Republican National Committee to pour $4 million into 1996 Congressional races through an allied group that may have operated outside Federal election laws. A27
 
Spending Bills Combined
The Senate voted to consolidate the three remaining Federal spending bills for 1998 into a single piece of legislation, and to strip out or soften most of the issues that have stalled the measures and drawn veto threats from President Clinton. In the House, Republican leaders and the White House agreed to a compromise over a controversial method of estimating the population in 2000. A28
 
Gene Therapy Works in Study
Gene therapy has prompted patients with hopelessly blocked blood vessels in their legs to grow their own bypasses, researchers reported. Some experts said the study was a rare demonstration of a clinical benefit from gene therapy and might be pivotal. A24
 
Rights Nomination Called Dead
Senator Orrin G. Hatch, seeming sure that he had the Republican votes on the Judiciary Committee to scuttle the nomination of Bill Lann Lee to the nation's top civil rights job, said that the nomination was "dead." Mr. Lee, 48, a Chinese-American lawyer from Los Angeles, has been bidding to become the first Asian-American to be named Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights. A22
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-5
 
Lottery Winner Spreads the Wealth
Eleanor Boyer's selflessness was the lesson of the day at the Church of the Immaculate Conception in Somerville, N.J., even though she moved away from the television cameras quickly, saying: "Now that's enough, all right? I want to pray a little bit." Ms. Boyer, 72, won $11.8 million (before taxes) in the New Jersey Lottery last week and is giving it away, about half of it to the church she has worshiped in all her life, and the rest to the rescue squad, the volunteer fire department and some of the other groups that serve the town she grew up in. A1
 
Dorothy Day Up for Sainthood
John Cardinal O'Connor, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of New York, said that he would take the first steps toward proposing sainthood for Dorothy Day, the legendary advocate for social justice and servant of the poor who co-founded the Catholic Worker movement in 1933. Followers of Miss Day, who was born in Brooklyn and who died in Manhattan in 1980, gathered over the weekend to commemorate the centennial of her birth. B2
 
Sharpton May Run for Congress
The Rev. Al Sharpton, encouraged by several Democratic officials, is considering a run for the seat in Congress held by Representative Edolphus Towns, a Brooklyn Democrat who crossed party lines to support Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. B3
 
Tribe Makes Casino Work
The tiny Oneida Indian Nation is proving with its Turning Stone casino that location and image are not everything when it comes to satisfying the demand for high-stakes gambling. The casino is in the middle of farm land, it does not serve alcohol and it has no slot machines. But gambling industry analysts say that Turning Stone, the state's only casino, is among the country's most successful, with annual revenues of several hundreds of millions. B1
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-16
 
Netscape Shining Again
Netscape, the company that fueled the Internet revolution, had until recently appeared to be in decline under the assault by Microsoft corporation. But Netscape's star has regained some of its luster lately, prompting a reassessment of the outlook for the company. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES B8
 
Leon Forrest
The writer and teacher who explored black American history in his complex epic novels was 60. Mr. Forrest was perhaps best known for his last novel, "Divine Days" (1993), a narrative about seven days in 1966 on the South Side of Chicago. B8
 
SPORTSMONDAY C1-10
 
ARTS E1-8
 
EDITORIAL A36-37
 
Editorials: Cycles of campaign reform; rebuild CUNY, but fairly; Verlyn Klinkenborg on landscapes of the New West.
Columns: Anthony Lewis, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Bridge E6
 
Crossword E6
 
Chronicle B5
 
Weather B6

GRAPHIC: Photos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); THAILAND (75%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); THAILAND (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSPECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MAYORS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); ESPIONAGE (68%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); CORRUPTION (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); TAX LAW (60%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



243 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Already Struggling, Dominicans Sink Deeper Into Poverty, Study Finds

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER 

 BODY:
A new study of Dominicans, New York City's largest and fastest growing immigrant group, has found that they have stumbled badly in the 1990's on the road to the American dream. Their per capita income has declined precipitously. Unemployment and poverty have risen substantially, as has the proportion of Dominican families headed by women with no spouse around to help out financially.
These social and economic setbacks have worsened the position of Dominicans relative to other groups in the city, including Puerto Ricans, blacks and Hispanic residents in general, and have further entrenched Dominicans at the bottom of the city's economic heap. 
 The deteriorating status of Dominicans is a worrisome trend for the city because the group is growing so fast and because Dominican children make up a disproportionate share of students in city schools, principally because Dominicans are younger on average than other New Yorkers and have more children, researchers say.
The city's Dominican population has grown at a remarkable rate, rising from 125,380 in 1980 to 332,713 in 1990 and to 495,000 this year -- and is expected to top 700,000 by the year 2000 if current patterns persist. And while Dominicans now make up about 7 percent of the city's population, they comprise an estimated 10 percent of its schoolchildren. Almost half the Dominicans in the city live below the poverty level.
These are among the findings in a socioeconomic profile of Dominicans in the city to be released today. Researchers in Columbia University's Latino Studies Program and the City University of New York's Dominican Studies Institute at City College based their conclusions on an analysis of annual Census Bureau surveys.
"Dominicans came looking for better jobs and living conditions and to improve their lives," said one of the two principal researchers, Ramona Hernandez, a sociologist at CUNY. "What you see is that this is not materializing for a majority of them."
Professor Hernandez and her colleague at Columbia, Francisco Rivera-Batiz, an economist, say they believe that the city should put more emphasis on attracting industries that employ unskilled workers and on investing in education. The progress of Dominicans will largely depend on improvements in their educational status, they say. As in many other immigrant groups, many Dominican adults need literacy and English language instruction, while children need better schools.
"The lack of a planned response by the public school system to enrollment growth has resulted in severe overcrowding of the schools in which Dominican children are enrolled," the researchers say in their report.
The bustling shopping areas along Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue in Washington Heights, the city's largest Dominican neighborhood, in upper Manhattan, and the apparent profusion of Dominican shopkeepers disguise a far less hopeful reality, the researchers say.
Only 7 percent of Dominicans in the labor force in the city were self-employed in 1990, below the city average of 9 percent. The vast majority of Dominicans must look for work in a job market particularly unfavorable to them, the researchers say.
A number of demographic factors have made Dominicans vulnerable to the erosion of opportunities for the unskilled in the city and the further contraction of the blue-collar manufacturing sector in the 1990's.
Dominicans in New York City, which is home to 6 out of every 10 Dominicans in the United States, are predominantly unskilled and have relatively low levels of educational attainment, even when compared with residents of the Dominican Republic, the study found.
In 1996, only 4 percent of the city's Dominicans had a college degree, as compared with 9 percent in the Dominican Republic, and 55 percent had not graduated from high school, while 44 percent lacked a high school diploma in the Dominican Republic.
Dominicans are much younger on average than New Yorkers generally (28 years old versus 36) and a large proportion are new to the United States and still struggling to learn English. Both their relative youth and lack of proficiency in English are disadvantages in the job market, researchers say.
The fact that so many Dominicans immigrated so recently and have had relatively little time to establish themselves economically has also contributed to their lagging performance in income and employment.
Among the study's findings was the sharp rise in Dominican households headed by women, to 49 percent in 1996 from 41 percent in 1990.
The study does not detail rates of welfare use among Dominicans, but city demographers found that 29 percent of Dominican households received public assistance in 1990. Among the foreign born, only people from the former Soviet Union had a higher reliance on welfare, with 37 percent. All other immigrant groups, except for Hondurans, had welfare-use rates lower than the 13 percent for the city population as a whole.
Given the economic plight of Dominicans since 1990, welfare use among Dominican women may have risen, Professor Rivera-Batiz said.
Both he and Professor Hernandez said they were shocked to discover how deep the drop was in per capita income among Dominicans and how steep the rise was in poverty.
From 1989 to 1996, per capita income declined 23 percent, to $6,094 a year, in inflation-adjusted dollars, while the poverty rate rose to 46 percent from 37 percent -- almost double that for the city as a whole.
The unemployment rate for Dominicans in the city rose to 18.8 percent in 1996 from 17.2 percent in 1990.
Dominicans began migrating to the United States in significant numbers in 1962, after the 1961 death of Rafael Trujillo, the dictator who had enforced highly restrictive policies on leaving the island. As economic conditions in the Dominican Republic worsened, particularly in the 1980's and 1990's, Dominican immigration to the United States soared.
Professor Hernandez said her family was among the thousands drawn to America by the lure of opportunity -- and is also among the majority whose hopes have often been disappointed. She is the only one of her parents' three children in the United States to make it through college and into a profession.
Her father, 66, recently retired as a school janitor but still does maintenance work part time. Her sister and her sister's husband each work two jobs to support their four children. And her brother is a laborer.
"It's painful that you have been let go by your own country and come to a new place dreaming of a better life and that does not happen," Professor Hernandez said.
Her voice charged with feeling, she added, "Education is crucial."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Economic Setbacks for Dominicans"
The economic status of Dominicans, New York City's largest and fastest growing immigrant group, has suffered several setbacks, including a drop in household income and a rise in the poverty rate. Graph shows per capita household income for Dominicans, Hispanics, blacks, and whites, along with the N.Y.C. averages, during 1989 and 1996. (Source: Dominican New Yorkers: A Socioeconomic Profile, 1997)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: DOMINICAN-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); TRENDS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); CITIES (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POVERTY RATES (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); CENSUS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); RETAILERS (60%); 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA W

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



244 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Senate Adjusts Legislation, Hoping to Remove Obstacles and Avoid a Veto

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9

 BODY:
The Senate voted tonight to consolidate the three remaining Federal spending bills for the 1998 fiscal year into a single piece of legislation. It also voted to strip out or soften most of the issues that have stalled the bills and drawn veto threats from President Clinton.
The legislation, known as an omnibus bill, passed on a unanimous voice vote and was sent to the House. The bill would allow the appropriations bill for the District of Columbia to include the spending bills for the Departments of Commerce, State and Justice, for the Federal judicial system, and for foreign operations. 
 Hoping to avoid a veto by Mr. Clinton, the Senate removed a school voucher provision from the District of Columbia spending legislation and made it a stand-alone bill.
Earlier in the day, House Republican leaders and the White House agreed to a compromise over a controversial method for estimating the population in 2000, the major issue that had stalled the spending bill for the Departments of Commerce, Justice and State. But the foreign operations section of the omnibus bill still includes language that prohibits Federal money for overseas family-planning organizations or programs that support abortion services.
Both the House and Senate passed a bill by voice vote late tonight that would keep Government agencies with unfinished budgets operating for another day, up until midnight Monday.
And House and Senate negotiators announced that they had reached an agreement on a six-month extension of the highway bill to give legislators until next spring to complete work on a six-year plan. The legislation would provide $9.7 billion to the states for transportation projects and assures each state that it will have at least half the Federal transportation funds that it received in 1997.
The moves came near the end of a day of furious political horse-trading. While Administration officials and Republican leaders lobbied on one front for votes on expanded trade authority for the President, negotiators huddled elsewhere trying to resolve the issues that stood between passage of the spending bills and adjournment for the year.
The major breakthrough was over the census fight. Under the deal, the Census Bureau would be allowed to proceed with a test next year on the use of statistical sampling, as the Administration wanted. But in return, Republicans won an agreement that allows the House Speaker to file a lawsuit challenging the use of sampling and requires the Government to pay for the lawsuit.
That provision angered many Democrats to the point that many said tonight that they would vote against the spending bill for Commerce and the other departments. But the White House, confident from the start that census sampling will withstand a court challenge, has argued that the Speaker or any other opponent of the plan could have filed lawsuit in any case.
Beyond just counting heads, the question of whether the Census Bureau uses sampling in the 2000 population assessment has significant political impact, because it could determine which of the major political parties will control the House of Representatives.
Republicans oppose census sampling mainly because a large number of the undercounted people are immigrants and other minority groups, who tend to live in heavily Democratic areas. Counting them, the Republicans fear, would allow House districts to be redrawn to the Democrats' advantage. Republicans, who now hold a 22-seat majority in the House, have said they could lose as many as two dozen seats because of sampling-driven redistricting.
Republicans also argue that the Constitution calls for an "actual enumeration" of the population to apportion seats in the House.
The political struggle over the 2000 census is entwined in the bill that appropriates money for three of the largest Cabinet departments -- Commerce ($3.2 billion), Justice ($1.13 billion), and State ($5 billion) -- as well as the Federal judiciary system ($3.2 billion).
The Census Bureau, which is part of the Commerce Department, wants to use sampling to improve on the 1990 Census, which failed to count more than 10 million people and counted 6 million twice or in the wrong location.
Census sampling is similar to the method used in public opinion polling but is more sophisticated.
Under the agreement that was worked out late Saturday but only announced today, the Census Bureau would receive $31 million to pay for two tests next year, in addition to its regular budget. One test would be conducted in Sacramento, Calif., using statistical sampling. The other test would be conducted in rural areas of South Carolina using the traditional house-by-house method augmented by the mailing of more census forms and advertising.
Martha Farnsworth Riche, the director of the Census Bureau, called the deal "an operational truce."
"It allows us to go ahead and gives us an opportunity to validate a plan we think will be more accurate and cost less money," she said. "At the same time it allows us to validate a nonsampling plan."
The deal also called for an eight-member Congressional monitoring board to review the Census Bureau plans for 2000, including sampling. The board, split equally between Republicans and Democrats, would need a majority vote of five.
Republicans had originally proposed a seven-member board that would consist of four Republicans and three Democrats. The White House had appeared to accept that deal on Saturday until Congressional Democrats balked and forced a new deal late Saturday night.
The Republicans and Democrats remained far apart over issues that have created an impasse in the appropriations bills for the District of Columbia, where a Republican plan for school vouchers has provoked a veto threat, and for foreign operations, which has become embroiled over abortion.
 
District of Columbia
The District of Columbia spending bill, covering about $820 million, is the smallest of the 13 appropriations bills. But it traditionally ranks as one of the most contentious because of fights over such issues as abortion and the Administration's decision to block a section of Pennsylvania Avenue in front of the White House for security. The political battle this year has been over school vouchers.
Republicans have included $7 million in the bill to provide vouchers for 2,000 low-income children to attend private schools. But Democrats, including the President, have opposed the idea, arguing that it would erode the public school system. Mr. Clinton has said he will veto the District of Columbia bill if it reaches his desk with the voucher provision.
 
Foreign Operations
The $12.8 billion spending bill for foreign operations covers foreign aid, including the annual economic and military assistance to Israel and Egypt and $770 million to the former republics of the Soviet Union. It also includes money for such programs as peacekeeping ($78 million) and the Peace Corps ($222 million).
But the bill has become a political hostage to a debate about overseas family-planning programs.
A provision known as the Mexico City Policy in the foreign operations bill prohibits the use of Federal money for overseas family-planning programs or for organizations that provide abortion services or lobby for those services. Since 1995, conservative Republicans in the House have tried to expand that language to include programs and organizations that use their own money for abortion services.
The Clinton Administration has steadfastly opposed that prohibition. In the last few days, however, Republicans have tried to leverage their support for President Clinton's desire for enhanced trade authority, or so-called fast-track legislation, to persuade him to drop his opposition.
But Mr. Clinton said today that the issue was non-negotiable.
"We're not going to trade a matter of principle on the Mexico City issue to carry fast track," he said on the NBC News program "Meet the Press." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; VETOES (US); COURTS LEGISLATION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); APPROPRIATIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VETO (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CENSUS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (85%); LITIGATION (84%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (66%); STATISTICAL METHOD (60%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (54%); ABORTION (51%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



245 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Quick Fix Won't Solve Asian Currency Crisis

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Jeffrey D. Sachs (Op-Ed, Nov. 3) provides the right diagnosis of the Asian Tiger malady, but the medicine he proposes -- letting the "Asian currencies float downward, so that these countries' exports will be cheaper and therefore more competitive" -- is wrong. This would merely mean that Southeast Asia would again be able to undersell and put other workers and factories elsewhere in the world out of work. Latin America (and China and Eastern Europe) would lose export market share in the United States, the European Union and Japan. 
 The loss of jobs and production in Latin America would pass the currency-crisis disease back to our important export markets there. We should have learned from the Depression that using exchange rate declines rather than improved productivity to achieve a competitive edge is merely a policy for each country to "export unemployment."
The real medicine must involve increasing the global demand for goods and services to keep pace with productive capacity so that workers and factories around the world can be fully employed to provide the goods that consumers deserve. That medicine cannot be administered until the economic myth that unemployment cannot be lowered without reigniting inflation is put to rest.
 
PAUL DAVIDSON
Knoxville, Tenn., Nov. 3, 1997
 
The writer is editor of the Journal of Post Keynesian Economics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PAUL DAVIDSON TAYLOR (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; THAILAND; INDONESIA; ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT CURRENCIES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EURO (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); MARKET SHARE (70%); 

PERSON: SACHS, JEFFREY D; DAVIDSON, PAUL

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



246 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: Quick Fix Won't Solve Asian Currency Crisis;
Banks Hurt Themselves

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "The Wrong Medicine for Asia" (Op-Ed, Nov. 3): Jeffrey D. Sachs's argument rests on the assumption that the Southeast Asian countries have been victimized by forces not of their making and out of their control. In fact, they are victims of their own financial organizations, which knowingly made ill-considered investments or gambled in foreign exchange and lost. 
 The questions now are who will bear the loss and fix the system so that the problem will not recur. Deposit insurance for small investors, suffering for larger investors who should have known better, fiscal restraint to pay for cleaning up the mess, and monetary stability -- these strike me as the "right medicine" for governments and the International Monetary Fund.
 
WILLIAM LASSETTER
Charlottesville, Va., Nov. 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; THAILAND; INDONESIA; ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED STATES (65%); VIRGINIA, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (67%); 

PERSON: SACHS, JEFFREY D; LASSETER, WILLIAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1997



247 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Trial of Au Pair Reveals Unease in U.S. Society

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Nov. 9

 BODY:
Anne Bernays, a Cambridge novelist and teacher, caught it early and bad. She would eat her lunch in front of the television, so as not to miss a moment of testimony. She would tell acquaintances about the trial that had hooked her, and the "incredible pre-Raphaelite face" of the defendant. What got her, she said, was "the dark undertone, that secret fear in the back of every mother's head that the people she's left her kids with are going to hurt them."
A month ago, Ms. Bernays was the only one in her circle of friends following the Louise Woodward case. Now, it seems as if the whole country is talking about what has become known as the nanny trial -- a phenomenon that cultural commentators say is deeply revealing about the current state of American society. 
 At dinner parties, at bus stops, on call-in shows and in on-line chat rooms, the story of the 19-year-old British au pair, convicted of murdering her employer's 8-month-old son, has absorbed the country's attention as no criminal case since the 1995 trial of O.J. Simpson.
Television executives say the audience for live courtroom coverage is the biggest in two years. And anticipation of Judge Hiller B. Zobel's decision on whether to overturn Ms. Woodward's conviction, which he plans to post on the World Wide Web -- and which could come as early as Monday -- is so great that on-line users complain it is clogging some Web sites.
All this over a "shaken baby" death, a crime committed hundreds of times a year, a case devoid of the celebrity sparkle and racial overtones of the Simpson trials, or the mass tragedy and political import of the Oklahoma City bombing trials.
So what, exactly, is going on?
Several factors are intertwined in a kind of "historical serendipity," said Paula Fass, a professor of history at the University of California at Berkeley and author of "Kidnapped: Child Abduction in America" (Oxford University Press, 1997).
Like virtually every other commentator, she pointed first to a deep sense of unease about the welfare of American children, now that most mothers work outside the home.
"That's an ongoing concern, and it tends to erupt in various places," Ms. Fass said. "This nanny trial is one of those eruptions -- kidnapping concerns are another eruption, and concerns about sexual predators are another eruption -- and this has been going on for 20 years, as mothers have entered the work force in larger numbers. It comes from a conflict and ambiguity in the culture, a sense we still don't feel easy about that fact."
Adding to that tension, she said, is the relatively new trend of televised trials, which give viewers a sense that they know as much as the jury, and the rise of interactive media, from chat groups to call-in shows, that encourage everyone to have an opinion.
Others note that the Woodward case has a particular power to evoke strong opinions, perhaps because almost everyone has relevant experience, whether because they have children, or have been baby sitters, or simply remember their own childhood caretakers.
"Everyone can be an expert on this," said David Nasaw, an American cultural historian at the City University of New York. "Everybody could be an expert on the O.J. Simpson thing, and in this case, even more so, everyone can be an expert on whether shaking babies can kill them and on nannies and all the rest."
Such experiences, some analysts believe, drove interest in the Woodward case to a sudden, critical mass because it fed a national hunger to share common narratives and dramas.
"The commercial culture, the mass media, are one of the only ways we have of creating a national culture, and it does what sports used to do for men," Mr. Nasaw said. "It creates a public in a way that other events don't or can't."
Erik Sorenson, Court TV's vice president for programming, said the public response to the Woodward jury's Oct. 30 guilty verdict brought to mind "The Perfect Storm," the best seller about fishermen overtaken by a squall.
"It reminds me of a big Nor'easter that is beyond any kind of human ability to control or predict," he said. Mr. Sorenson noted that some at Court TV initially questioned whether the Woodward trial was even worth broadcasting.
Mr. Sorenson attributed the case's pull not only to its child-care issues but its legal ones as well, coming at a time when viewers had finally recovered from the overdose of the two O.J. Simpson trials.
"Legally, alone, you have a bushel full of issues," he said. "The all-or-nothing strategy of the defense; whether a jury's verdict should be sacrosanct; whether defense lawyers are unethical slobs because they'll make up any story they can, to get someone off; whether prosecutors are heartless deal-drivers because they overcharge."
The broader national context -- coming at a time of peace, economic health, low crime and dull elections -- also played a part in the phenomenon, some said.
"I think we have an ongoing sort of trial circus," said Caryl Rivers, a professor of journalism at Boston University and author of "She Works, He Works" (HarperCollins, 1996).
"In the 1920's, tabloids covered the sensational trials all the time," she said. "We're at peace, the economy hasn't crumbled, there's no pressing international story that sort of impacts our lives. We are now looking at different things to divert us. I think we are probably going to have these things come up regularly."
Ms. Fass of Berkeley shared that view, adding that with the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, public displays of emotion seem to have gained a new acceptance.
Once the guilty verdict came in, many people also seemed to find some emotional empathy for Ms. Woodward, who is scheduled to spend at least 15 years in prison before she is eligible for parole. A Boston Herald poll taken on Nov. 4 among 306 Massachusetts residents found that 90 percent wanted her conviction either reduced to a lesser charge or nullified altogether.
Even before she was convicted, Ms. Woodward was a compelling figure whose wholesome looks and soft voice contributed to her trial's popularity.
As Deborah Eappen, the mother of the dead child, Matthew Eappen, said in a CNN interview with Larry King, "The idea that someone who looks 'normal' or friendly or young or -- I hate to use stereotypes; a young, white, soft-spoken, British-accented, intelligent girl could harm your child -- it's terrifying to people."
The image projected by the Eappens, too, contributed to interest in the case, many say: both are doctors in their early 30's, living in a starter house in the pleasant Boston suburb of Newton.
"These are basically fairly middle-class characters with which people can identify," said Shari Thurer, a psychologist and author of "The Myths of Motherhood" (Penguin, 1996). But class works against the Eappens as well, she said, because "people who see the Eappens as privileged therefore connect with Louise."
Certainly, the intensity of the emotional response has left Mr. Sorenson of Court TV and others shaking their heads.
"I read a lot of mail like this: 'I feel for the Eappens. Nobody's talking about the baby. Who's looking out for little Matthew?' And I think: 'Three weeks ago they'd never heard of little Matthew!' " he said. "It's a combination of something missing in our lives, but on the other hand something richly afforded to us in our lives, and it's a very peculiar phenomenon."
 
ON THE WEB
When Judge Hiller B. Zobel issues his decision on whether to overturn the murder conviction of Louise Woodward, it will be available to computer users through The New York Times on the Web, at:
 
www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Louise Woodward, the au pair who awaits a judge's decision on her conviction. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TESTIMONY (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MURDER (77%); WORKING MOTHERS (76%); HEAD INJURIES (76%); CHAT ROOMS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); SEX OFFENSES (67%); HISTORY (66%); BOMBINGS (63%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: ORENTHAL JAMES 'O J' SIMPSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



248 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 10, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Clinton and Allies Fall Short, Again Delaying a Trade Vote

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Monday, Nov. 10

 BODY:
After a weekend of frenetic deal-making and lobbying but still falling short of votes, President Clinton and his Republican allies decided early this morning to delay for a second time a House vote granting expanded trade negotiating authority to the President.
Shortly before 2 A.M., the majority leader, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, said the House would recess until Wednesday, leaving open the option of returning to the trade bill later in the week. 
 That decision potentially gave Mr. Clinton another few days to salvage legislation he has called crucial to the economic health of the country. But it was not clear how Mr. Clinton could make the headway and round up the votes that had eluded him despite offers of Presidential help in campaign fundraising.
Action on the bill also could be delayed until next year, although such a postponement would be a clear defeat for Mr. Clinton, since the bill's chances are considered even dimmer in an election year.
Opponents of the President -- predominantly members of his own Democratic party -- predicted that they would prevail. "They don't have the votes," said Representative Jerrold L. Nadler of New York. "I think we've won."
A defeat for Mr. Clinton on the trade legislation would represent his most severe legislative setback since his proposal for national health care died in 1994.
Earlier on Sunday night, Republicans had expressed guarded optimism, even though Mr. Clinton had a majority of his party in the House firmly arrayed against him. "I'm not promising we have the votes," Mr. Gingrich said in the afternoon as the House moved toward a long night of emotional discussion on the trade legislation known as fast track.
But the Georgia Republican said that if could get within five votes of victory he would "roll the dice" and take a vote. He also held open the possibility of pulling the legislation off the floor. "I don't want the President to be summarily defeated," he said. "I think that would be America being defeated."
The House minority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, who has been leading the battle against his own party's President in opposition to the fast-track legislation, met with his head counters on Sunday and declared, "I believe that we'll win this vote."
Republicans who attended a closed-door party caucus Sunday afternoon where Mr. Gingrich pushed for support said the Speaker tried to bring around recalcitrant Republicans loath to give Mr. Clinton a triumph. "The Speaker is trying to convince the Republicans that a fast-track vote now is a Republican victory and a Clinton defeat," said Senator Larry E. Craig, Republican of Idaho, who was sitting in. "If he is successful in doing that, fast track will pass, and if he is not, it may not come to a vote, or, if it does, it would be defeated."
Other Republicans said Mr. Gingrich sought converts by arguing that passage would help the country and deal a huge defeat to organized labor. Talking to reporters after the session, Mr. Gingrich referred to Democrats as fearful of "Washington labor bosses."
In a significant sign of Mr. Clinton's problems, three Democratic Representatives -- Nita M. Lowey of Westchester, Chaka Fattah of Philadelphia and Juanita Millender-McDonald of California -- announced that they had decided to oppose the trade measure. Only one previously undecided Democrat, Representative Zoe Lofgren of California, said she had come down "a reluctant yes."
Ms. Lowey, whose district runs into the Bronx and Queens, said she decided that the trade bill in the end "just wasn't good enough." She also said that good legislation should be able to pass on its merits, not on arm-twisting and deals. "This week has not brought honor to this House," she said. "A disillusioned and cynical public believes the Capitol is awash in deal-making and threats."
The legislation under consideration in the House extends the authority that Presidents since Gerald R. Ford have had to negotiate trade agreements that Congress can either approve or disapprove but not amend. Mr. Clinton let the powers expire midway through his first term, rather than risk a vote that would splinter Democrats just as he was trying to avoid a primary challenge and assure his re-election.
The Administration contends that such Presidential powers are crucial to America's world standing because Mr. Clinton would be hampered in striking deals if America's trading partners thought that any pacts they negotiated with the United States could be refashioned by Congress.
Next to the summer's balanced-budget agreement, the trade bill has been considered the most significant battle of this session of Congress.
A temporary delay would give Mr. Clinton time to search for votes before Congress adjourns, almost certainly this week, but a postponement until next year would be a significant defeat for the President. Most political strategists believe that the measure would only become harder to pass in a fractious election year.
Republicans generally have supported Mr. Clinton's free-trade position. But Democrats have been sharply divided, depending on how they view the changes being wrought by the global economy.
While centrist Democrats like Mr. Clinton contend that Americans stand to gain from an economy dominated by high technology and an educated work force, they are outnumbered in the House by Democrats who see blue-collar workers forced into a "race to the bottom" through competition with developing countries that do not have the labor laws and environmental protections of the United States.
Organized labor and environmental groups -- both at the heart of the Democratic constituency and out in force in the corridors of the Capitol this weekend -- ferociously oppose the bill. They contend that the legislation is flawed because it does not include binding promises that Mr. Clinton, in expanding global trade, will use the ultimate weapon of trade sanctions to force developing nations to improve their treatment of workers and to protect the environment.
For weeks, Mr. Clinton has been struggling to bring enough Democrats to his side to win. Doing so with Republican support would also allow him to claim a bipartisan victory. But Mr. Clinton, who has proved eminently flexible in his ideology, no longer has a reservoir of good will among House Democrats.
In a contentious meeting with the White House chief of staff, Erskine B. Bowles, on Saturday, many House Democrats angrily expressed suspicions that Mr. Clinton was willing to barter his position on such issues as international family planning funds to win Republican votes.
In an appearance on Sunday morning on NBC's "Meet the Press," Mr. Clinton tried to smooth over some of the Democratic fury. He said that "as a matter of principle" he would not alter his position on family-planning funds to win Republican votes. That stand by the President apparently prevented Mr. Gingrich from rounding up as many Republicans as he needed to make up for the President's lack of Democratic support.
All day and into the night Sunday, the President's senior aides -- including Mr. Bowles; his legislative liaison, John Hilley, and his chief delegate to the United Nations, Bill Richardson -- continued to work for votes in the Capitol. In the search for votes over the weekend, lawmakers said, the White House had promised lawmakers protections for peanuts, wheat, cattle, wine and tobacco. The President had also been offering to hold fund-raisers for individual Democrats who fear the consequences in next year's campaign if organized labor turns against them.
At one point Sunday night, Representative David R. Obey, a Wisconsin Democrat, asked Representative Robert Livingston, the Louisiana Republican who chairs the Appropriations Committee: "Does the gentleman know how many bridges the President has promised today for fast-track votes?"
Mr. Livingston mischievously replied, "The gentleman does not have enough fingers for that."
For some House members, the trade vote is about political survival. Democrats in particular believe that the support of the labor movement is far more crucial to their chances of re-election next year than the support of Mr. Clinton, who has carried no coattails for Congressional Democrats. For others, particularly from certain manufacturing or agricultural regions of the country, it is a referendum on the North American Free Trade Agreement of 1993, which Mr. Clinton also pushed through Congress primarily with Republican votes.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A weekend of frenetic lobbying in Washington continued into the evening yesterday as members of the United Steelworkers of America, the Sheet Metal Workers' International Association and other unions who oppose "fast track" legislation gathered at sunset outside the Capitol building. Representative Nita Lowey, a New York Democrat, discussed her decision to oppose the trade measure with an aide yesterday. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: BISMARCK, ND, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); SHEET METAL WORKERS' INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION (59%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); SHEET METAL WORKERS' INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION (59%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); FUNDRAISING (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); JERROLD NADLER (58%); NITA M LOWEY (58%); LARRY CRAIG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



249 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: In Books, It's Boom Time for Spirits;
Angels, Conversations With God, Even Fairies and Elves Sell Well

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL 

 BODY:
The hot line to heaven is open for sales.
When Neale Donald Walsch placed his emergency 911 appeal for spiritual comfort, he writes, God seized control of his pen, dictating two best-selling books of conversations that reveal a laissez-faire moral framework for life: "Do what you want to do." 
 Angels also took an active role in the preparation of "The Messengers," reports Nick Bunick, who says that while he was on tour to promote his steadily selling "as told to" book of angelic encounters, people spotted seven-foot-tall lavender and blue beings hovering nearby.
With such a rising din of celestial conversation, how do earthbound publishing executives verify heavenly access for a book deal? The simple answer is they don't, but it helps if the author is sincere and God has charisma and good grammar.
Most of the major New York publishing houses have acquired books with such spiritual themes or are scouting for promising authors nurtured by smaller presses. Publishers are well aware that as the millennium approaches, the theme of divine communication, in all its other-worldly varieties, is growing in popularity and shifting from the shelves of New Age bookstores to the mainstream ranks of best-seller lists.
In the realm of the written page, fairies are advising authors on rebirth while elves in baggy pants are providing technical assistance on grape production. Angels are sending messages through automatic writing or, in the case of the Archangel Michael, channeling through a computer keyboard. Authors are engaging in vigorous debates with God and Jesus through inspirational writing, while Buddha is also weighing in by means of what one writer characterizes as "scientific remote viewing."
Typically, these nonjudgmental books offer a reassuring blend of major religious philosophies, mixing a Christian emphasis on love, a Buddhist stress on tolerance and a Hindu belief in reincarnation. The focus is often on the individual, a strategy at odds with the mainstream teachings of seminaries, which stress social action and community commitment. "This is a religious experience, which society manifests in times of transition," said Bruce Chilton, a professor of religion at Bard College and an Episcopal priest. "Much of what comes out of the New Age movement is an attempt to address the postindustrial economy -- the likelihood that a person will change jobs and careers, the likelihood of changing spouses several times."
Mr. Walsch, for example, is the author of two spiritual books, which have emerged in the mainstream of the New York Times best-seller list for nonfiction, "Conversations With God, Book 1" and "Conversations with God, Book 2." The first volume remains on the best-seller list with more than 800,000 copies in print.
A former radio talk show host in Oregon and the father of nine, Mr. Walsch, 54, seems an unlikely divine messenger, but then that is his message: anyone can share jokes and folksy conversation with God, even a former altar boy and lapsed Catholic with a history of five marriages, a troubled career and a passion for the music of John Denver.
"People have acquired a new level of willingness to look for alternative answers," said Mr. Walsch, who also recently established a spiritual counseling hot line and a personal growth foundation. "I think that has to do with the growing awareness that the past ways haven't worked: our political setup, our social conventions, our theological constructions. The house of cards is coming down."
Clearly, the exploration of spirituality is attracting readers. Despite a tough climate for book sales, religious titles are steadily growing in popularity, growing more than 40 percent from 1990 to 1996 and now total more than $1.1 billion a year, according to the Book Industry Study Group.
 
Baby Boomers Reach the Right Age
 Publishers theorize that the baby boom generation, facing its own mortality and the loss of parents, is driving sales. A recent survey of readers by the same group indicates that purchases of religious books increase with the age of the customer. Readers who turn out for lectures by New Age authors are women more often than men and usually have some college education, publishing executives say.
"I think the new millennium brings more of an appreciation for things that are less mundane and more magical," said Nancy Mostad, an acquisitions manager for Llewellyn Publications in St. Paul, which has been publishing spiritual books since 1901. "People are feeling a sense of alienation from their religious training, and so rather than going through a priest or a rabbi, they want to have contact with the higher beings, whether angels, God or fairies."
This year the company published "The Elves of Lily Hill Farm," in which Penny Kelly describes her enduring relationship and regular conversations with a small clan of elves led by Alvey, a 22-inch-tall spirit in baggy pants and feathered hat.
Mrs. Kelly, 49 and a lapsed Catholic, said she first encountered the elves while strolling through her 57-acre Lily Hill Farm in the southwest Michigan town of Lawton. Initially skeptical, Mrs. Kelly said, she soon was making regular visits to the elves to seek advice on increasing her annual grape harvest to 100 tons.
Her book includes a special section offering tips to readers on elf communication. "Any time you go into a park, you'll find an elf," she said. "If you have a potted plant on your terrace, you may be able to communicate with an elflike intelligence."
Some companies remain leery of books claiming divine access. Morgan Entrekin, publisher at Grove/ Atlantic Press, said he would have qualms about publishing a book that reported spiritual communication as fact.
"These books seem to be fairly benign," he said, adding, "Perhaps they should be slightly more skeptical about the claims they make in their flap copy. Quite honestly, it's stuff I bypass."
But other publishing houses see it differently.
"As publishers, our job is to take a writer's message to the public," said Susan Petersen, senior vice president of Penguin Putnam Inc., which is now the publisher of the first volume of "Conversations With God." "The issue for us is: Is the person sincere? And do I think that what the person has to say will be of interest? Does it hang together?"
Spiritual inspiration doesn't guarantee luminous prose. One of the few authors whose writing draws praise in reviews is the Brazilian writer Paulo Coelho, the international best-selling author of "The Alchemist" and "The Valkyries: An Encounter With Angels."
In an interview, Mr. Coelho cautions readers to be wary of depending on authors for their spiritual salvation. "This is a great danger to rely on masters and gurus and reincarnation," he said. "The spiritual path is an individual one and it cannot transfer responsibility."
For publishers, the risk resides not in the message but in the sales potential. It gives them spiritual comfort to know that a religious book has a demonstrated sales appeal. For example, Penguin Putnam Inc. contracted to publish Mr. Walsch's first volume of conversations after noting that the book had sold more than 100,000 copies for Hampton Roads, a small press in Charlottesville, Va. (Hampton Roads is now publishing the second volume.)
Looking for a book with similar spiritual appeal, Pocket Books discovered "The Messengers," a self-published title that had sold more than 20,000 copies in the first month of its debut in the Northwest, where Mr. Bunick promoted it with a billboard campaign featuring a flaxen-haired angel. Pocket Books paid Mr. Bunick's company, Skywin, a $1 million advance for the rights to "The Messengers" and a follow-up book.
 
The Advance Money Goes for Publicity
 Mr. Bunick, 61, a prosperous Portland, Ore., businessman whose parents were Orthodox Jews, commissioned a ghost writer, G. W. Hardin, to tell his story of angelic visitors and his reincarnation as the Apostle Paul.
After its publication in August, "The Messengers" hovered for a while just below books published in the New York Times best-seller list but still in the top 30. And Mr. Bunick has invested much of his advance in increased advertising and hiring an independent California publicity agent. He has also enlisted volunteers to operate an advice hot line for readers who encounter angels of their own after reading his book.
Surprisingly, Mr. Bunick said, he has encountered little resistance or cynicism about his claims that he was an apostle or that angels visit his friends and were hanging around the book tour.
"There are only three possibilities," he said of his experiences. "The information is accurate or I fabricated it or I have been having delusions."
Richard Abanes, a writer and the author of the soon-to-be published "Defending the Faith: A Beginner's Guide to Cults and New Religions," said that part of the appeal of such spiritual books was that they were nonjudgmental and offered more excitement than sterner mainstream religions."Everything, including truth, has become so relative," he says. "If it seems to be true, that's good enough."
Mr. Walsch, who said he has received enough material to write as many as five volumes of spiritual conversations, says he is not trying to persuade anyone that God is literally steering his pen.
"Without wanting to be argumentative," he said, "I don't really care what you believe. I am not trying to convince people of anything, and so what people believe on some level is irrelevant. I'm simply sharing."
Mr. Walsch concedes, however, that his parochial schoolteacher, Sister Ricardo, may take a dim view of what happened to a student who once had ambitions of becoming a priest. "I think she would say, 'Hmm, it's what I would have expected of Neale, although I'm sorry he has much of his doctrine wrong."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Neale Donald Walsch, author of "Conversations With God," is among the writers responding to the popularity of the otherworldly. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Nick Bunick, who tells of being a reincarnation of the Apostle Paul, holding a map of Paul's travels. (Max Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. E1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONVERSATIONS WITH GOD (BOOK); MESSENGERS, THE (BOOK); ELVES OF LILY HILL FARM, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOK TRADE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE ; RELIGION AND CHURCHES RELIGION (91%); BOOKSTORES (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: WALSCH, NEALE DONALD; BUNICK, NICK; KELLY, PENNY ; CARVAJAL, DOREEN; BUNICK, NICK

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



250 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up vs. Mark and Yen; Pound and Swiss Franc Gain

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell yesterday to a 10-month low against the British pound and a five-and-a-half-month low against the Swiss franc, but inched to a second consecutive six-month high against the Japanese yen as currency traders sought refuge from Asia's economic turmoil.
The dollar finished marginally higher against the German mark as both currencies rose against the yen. The Japanese currency suffered broadly after blue-chip stocks tumbled in Hong Kong and Tokyo, and South Korea's won tumbled to a record low against the dollar. Dealers bought currencies of European countries that would be less affected by the region's struggles. 
 The pound was particularly strong against the yen, indirectly helping the pound's value vs. the dollar, partly because Britain will not participate at the start of Europe's planned common currency in 1999. Trader concern about the new currency's stability sometimes holds back the mark and Swiss franc, Europe's main safe-haven currencies.
"The pound is probably the real star right now," said Elliott Dix, vice president of foreign exchange at the Signet Banking Corporation in Richmond.
Sterling also benefited from Britain's high interest rates, which were increased last week for the fifth time since May. In comparison, traders said they did not think the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates when its policy-setting committee meets tomorrow.
In late New York trading, sterling cost $1.6961, up from $1.6909 late Friday, the highest against the dollar since Jan. 6. The dollar also settled at 1.3887 Swiss francs, down from 1.3912, its lowest since May 20.
The dollar was quoted at 124.40 yen, up from 124.22.
The dollar finished at 1.7077 marks, up slightly from 1.7067.
Traders said that as the week progressed they would be scrutinizing the outcome of tomorrow's Fed meeting, as well as developments in the Persian Gulf. Iraq has vowed to expel American arms inspectors, and increased tension could cause a rise in oil prices that would particularly hurt Japan's already sluggish economy and put further downward pressure on the yen. Japan is dependent on imported oil. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); GERMANY (88%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (70%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (70%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; JAPAN; SWITZERLAND; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); ASIA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); GERMANY (88%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (70%); INDIAN OCEAN (70%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (95%); BRITISH POUND (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); GERMAN MARK (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (61%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



251 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Nissan's Profits Jump as Exports Offset Slump in Japan

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 10

 BODY:
The Nissan Motor Company said today that pretax profit rose 47 percent in the fiscal first half as cost reductions and higher exports offset a slump in Japanese sales.
Nissan, Japan's second-largest auto manufacturer, is fighting to increase domestic sales by focusing on the booming market for sport utility vehicles and station wagons, where it has trailed its rivals, including the Toyota Motor Corporation, the nation's biggest car company. 
 Auto sales in Japan have declined every month since April, when the Government raised the national sales tax, eliminated tax rebates and raised health insurance premiums -- steps that cost the average Japanese family $1,600 a year. Analysts do not expect car sales to begin to increase until next April.
Nissan rolled out more models in the fiscal first half, but its Japanese market share fell four-tenths of a percentage point, to 20.6 percent. Unit sales in Japan decreased almost 9 percent.
"It's very tough," said Kanemitsu Anraku, the Nissan managing director for accounting and finance. Nissan's performance "depends on the Japanese economy," he said.
The gloomy outlook for the domestic market prompted the auto maker to cut its forecast for profit in the full fiscal year by 9 percent.
In the fiscal first half, which ended Sept. 30, pretax profit increased 47 percent, to 45.36 billion yen, or $366 million, from 30.91 billion yen a year earlier. Net income more than tripled, to 38.50 billion yen from 11.63 billion yen.
Sales rose 2 percent, to 1.776 trillion yen from 1.738 trillion yen.
The results were for the parent company only. The auto maker will report earnings for the full corporate group later.
Saul Rubin, an auto analyst at SBC Warburg Japan Ltd., said that because of Nissan's strategy of increasing its share of the market for sport utility vehicles and station wagons, "they have actually done reasonably well in Japan." He said, "At long last, Nissan is beginning to pull back in that segment."
Exports grew 26.3 percent in the half. The weaker yen, which allows Japanese exporters to price their products more competitively overseas, helped offset the decline in Japanese sales.
Exports to the United States rose 11 percent, to 148,000 units, led by the Maxima luxury sedan, the Pathfinder sport utility vehicle and the QX4 luxury sport utility vehicle. But sales fell 10 percent, to 369,000 units.
Closer to home, exports to Thailand declined. Shipments to Malaysia and Indonesia gained. The Southeast Asian countries, especially Thailand, are suffering because of speculative attacks on their currencies and economic problems. But analysts said Nissan did not depend on the Southeast Asian market as much as some of the other Japanese car makers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (96%); TYT (LSE) (84%); TM (NYSE) (84%); 7203 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); ASIA (92%); THAILAND (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (88%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (96%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NISSAN MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); ASIA (92%); THAILAND (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (88%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; COMPANY REPORTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EXPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SEDANS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); SALES TAX (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); FAMILY (75%); JAPANESE YEN (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); TAX RELIEF (70%); TAX LAW (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); ACCOUNTING (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



252 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: 'Fast Track' Is Derailed

 BODY:
President Clinton has been dealt a vengeful rebuke by Democrats over free trade. Mr. Clinton sounded the right note yesterday when he vowed to fight again next year for legislation granting trade negotiating authority to the President. But it will be an even harder fight as the President suddenly finds himself struggling to overcome the image of a lame duck in Washington. Another aspect of the defeat was that the philosophical arguments over trade and other matters may now be overwhelmed by the politics of the 2000 Presidential race.
All recent Presidents have won "fast track" authority, in which the trade agreements they negotiate get an up-or-down vote in Congress. There were more than 90 votes among House Democrats for the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993, when lawmakers were loath to oppose a first-term President. But yesterday Mr. Clinton could barely muster half that number in his party, and the bill was withdrawn. That was a slap for Mr. Clinton and Vice President Gore. 
 Much has changed since Nafta. A newly muscular A.F.L.-C.I.O. threatened to punish Democrats who voted for the "fast track" legislation this year. Perhaps more important, Representative Richard Gephardt, the House Democratic leader, fought fast track as if it were the start of his expected Presidential campaign against Mr. Gore. Liberal Democrats were also tired of being battered by Mr. Clinton's strategy of embracing G.O.P. positions on budget cuts, crime and welfare, and they paid him back with a rattling blow to White House prestige. That leaves hanging the huge political question of whether the President's policy of pulling Democrats and Republicans together into a somewhat conservative parliamentary majority is dead.
The current boom ought to have made Democrats more confident that, on balance, lowering trade barriers is good for the American economy. The Administration calculates, for example, that a third of the 13 million jobs added to the economy in the last five years have come from industries that export. But Washington cannot now press American trading partners to open up their markets without an American willingness to open its own.
Mr. Clinton's defeat was not simply a result of recalcitrance in his own party, of course. Many conservative Republicans did not want to hand him a victory even on something they supported philosophically. Their ultimate demand was for the White House to give in on language prohibiting American foreign aid to any organization that performs or promotes abortion. The President was right to refuse to go along.
The failure of the "fast track" bill was the President's biggest reversal since the health-care proposal failed in 1994. This time, however, it also seemed to reflect a loss of patience in both parties with the way they have been roped together on bipartisan budget deals all year. If the "fast track" bill comes up again next year, Mr. Clinton and House Speaker Newt Gingrich will have to do a better job persuading the lawmakers to set their parochial interests aside in favor of long-term gains for the economy as a whole. For now, narrow political interest has carried the day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); AFL-CIO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); AFL-CIO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (86%); POLITICS (79%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



253 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Finish Mixed On Quiet Day

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The prices of Treasury securities were mixed in quiet trading yesterday, as those with longer maturities outperformed the middle and short ends of the market. Analysts said market participants were waiting for the meeting tomorrow of the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee and a report to Congress on Thursday by Alan Greenspan, the central bank's chairman.
Today, in observance of Veterans Day, there will be no Government bond trading and no trading in bond- related financial contracts on commodity exchanges. Though stock markets will remain open, there will be no trading in corporate bonds, municipal bonds or mortgage- and asset-backed securities. 
 Yesterday, the price of the 30-year bond rose 6/32, to 99 25/32, while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 6.14 percent from 6.16 percent on Friday. The price of the two-year note was down 1/32, to 99 27/32, raising the yield to 5.71 percent from 5.69.
A lack of money flows from Asian markets to Treasury securities contributed to slack buying yesterday. Some investors, expecting Asian markets to drop over the weekend, were holding long positions in bonds, hoping to take advantage of price gains from any "flight to quality" by investors seeking greater safety. That also put pressure on the weekly auction yesterday of new three-month and six-month month bills.
At the auction, the new bills were both sold at an average rate of 5.16 percent. The bid-to-cover ratios, a measure of demand, were not as strong as last week, when the turmoil in world equity markets was driving more investors to the safety of Treasury securities. This week the ratios were 5.11 to 1 and 4.33 to 1, respectively, compared with last week's 6.12 and 6.11, respectively.
Jack Regan, chief derivative strategist at Josephthal, Lyon & Ross, said overall market volume was on the light side as market participants awaited the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, even though most analysts expect it to keep interest rates steady. Mr. Regan cautioned, however, that there was always an outside chance that the central bank might decide to move anyway, particularly after the surprising strength of the October employment report last Friday.
"Comments by Fed officials, the employment report and other market data received last week have made market participants sit up a little straighter," Mr. Regan said. "Looking at the tight labor markets has put some constraints on the enthusiasm of the last several weeks."
Because of the continuing uncertainty in the Asian and Latin American markets -- whose gyrations had sent many investors into bonds over the last few weeks -- and jitters over new tensions in the Middle East, the bond market is likely to remain volatile this week, Mr. Regan said.
The Fed last raised rates in March, when it increased the Federal funds rate to 5.50 percent from 5.25 percent.
On Thursday, Mr. Greenspan will be speaking to the House Banking Committee on the Asian financial crisis; also that day, the Commerce Department will report on productivity and labor costs during the third quarter. On Friday, the Producer Price Index and retail sales data for October will be reported.
With such important reports looming, yesterday was the first session in about two weeks during which the bond market went back to worrying about the domestic economy after being caught up in the turmoil of world equity markets. If investors had focused on the American economy during that period, bond prices almost surely would have fallen because of concern about inflation prompted by indications of strong growth.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills		 	 	Average Price	98.696	97.391		 	 	Discounted Rate	5.16%	5.16%		 	 	Coupon Yield	5.29%	5.37%		 	 	High Price	98.701	97.401		 	 	Discounted Rate	5.14%	5.14%		 	 	Coupon Yield	5.27%	5.35%		 	 	Low Price	98.696	97.389		 	 	Discounted Rate	5.16%	5.14%		 	 	Coupon Yield	5.29%	5.37%		 	 	Accepted at low price	42%	14%		 	 	Total applied for	$42,473,597	$35,874,964		 	 	Accepted	$11,397,197	$10,861,664		 	 	Noncompetitive	$1,354,786	$1,113,764	

Both issues are dated Nov. 13, 1997. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 12, 1998, and the six-month bills mature on May 14, 1998.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since July. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (55%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



254 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Stage a Retreat, With the Dow Falling by 28.73

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
Most stock indexes fell yesterday, as continued concerns about slower growth in international markets, particularly Southeast Asia, erased early gains.
The declines came despite improved performance yesterday in Brazil and South Korea, two markets that were under pressure last week. 
 Reflecting investors' concerns that the problems in those markets have not been fully resolved, American companies in sectors believed to have large exposures to selloffs in those regions, such as technology shares, were among the most actively traded and were the leading decliners. Financial services companies like Travelers Group, American Express, Citicorp, Chase and Merrill Lynch also fell.
But telecommunications stocks like AT&T, GTE, SBC Communications and BellSouth ended higher, after MCI Communications accepted a sweetened takeover bid by Worldcom, for $36.5 billion in cash and stock, which would be the biggest merger in American history.
"It is a very good likelihood that Asia's contagion will be bigger than we thought," said Greg Smith, chief investment strategist at Prudential Securities, during a conference in New York yesterday.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 7,552.59, down 28.73 points, erasing early gains of as much as 74.9 points. Pacing the average's decline were technology companies like I.B.M., 97 11/16, down 1 13/16, and Hewlett-Packard, 60 1/2, down 1 7/16. However, advances exceeded declines on the Big Board, 1,459 against 1,431. Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.38 points, closing at 921.13. And the technology laden Nasdaq composite index lost 11.68 points, to 1,590.72.
Among major market indexes, only the Russell 2000 index managed to eke out a small gain. The index of 2,000 smaller-company stocks finished at 435.40, up 0.18 point.
Although fourth-quarter earnings of most American companies are not likely to be affected by the Southeast Asian markets' decline, market strategists are beginning to say the overall economy could slow beginning in early 1998.
"I don't think the correction is over," said Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist at Cowen & Company. "I think there was a little bit too much complacent congratulations that people gave each other for having survived" the record 554-point selloff on Oct. 27.
However, the forecasts of analysts who follow individual stocks do not yet signal a significant downturn, market strategists say.
Current earnings forecasts by I.B.E.S. for 1998 -- 15 percent for the S.& P. 500 is "a very rosy forecast for a world dealt something that has got to slow it down," Mr. Smith said, adding, "I am decidedly neutral about the next 6 to 12 months."
An expected fourth-quarter earnings shortfall did hurt one company's stock yesterday. CKS Group, which designs advertising and multimedia marketing campaigns, plunged 22 7/8, to 13 3/8, after saying that its fourth-quarter profit would be 6 cents to 10 cents a share, sharply below analysts' forecasts of 24 cents.
The downturn is a result of slower sales to its largest customers, said Steven Horan, an internet services analyst with Nationsbank Montgomery Securities.
CKS is trying to win bigger contracts, but will be unable to do so in a timely manner until it reorganizes its operations. The company realized that this will squeeze earnings this quarter and probably will remain a problem into 1998, Mr. Horen said.
"I really do believe these guys will be back," Mr. Horen said, adding that with the current problems "you can't value this thing as a 40 percent" earnings grower.
A technology issue, Read-Rite, declined 1 11/16, to 17 1/2. The disk drive component maker, said it expected earnings for its fiscal first quarter ending, Dec. 31, to falter because of overcapacity and depressed prices. The stock of other drive-component makers also fell, including Hutchinson Technology Inc., Western Digital Corporation and Seagate Technology.
 
ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); T (NYSE) (84%); COWN (NASDAQ) (84%); VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); BRAZIL (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); AT&T INC (84%); COWEN GROUP INC (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); BRAZIL (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MARKET SIZE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); MERGERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); HISTORY (54%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R CRAIG R SMITH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



255 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: THE BATTLE FOR MCI: THE CONSUMERS;
A Pragmatic Agenda For Residential Service

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Bernard J. Ebbers, the president of Worldcom Inc., has built his company into a powerhouse and a Wall Street favorite by sidestepping the dregs of the telecommunications industry -- the messy, less profitable business of catering to residential phone customers.
Yet Mr. Ebbers spoke eloquently yesterday of how Worldcom's $36.5 billion merger with the MCI Communications Corporation would create a "stronger, more capable player" in the industry, an aggressive innovator that would certainly "benefit American consumers." 
 Worldcom's interest in residential customers has come recently. When Worldcom made its initial bid for MCI last month, John W. Sidgmore, the vice chairman of Worldcom, said that Worldcom might well sell MCI's 20 million residential customers to other long-distance companies. The next day, Worldcom quickly issued a statement saying it would "not abandon MCI's residential long-distance customers."
Worldcom's new-found concern for residential customers, analysts say, is mainly a pragmatic accommodation, a requirement for regulatory approval for its merger. The public policy justification for deregulating the phone industry in the landmark Telecommunications Act of 1996 was that fewer restraints and increased competition would benefit consumers, who would enjoy lower costs, new offerings and improved service.
The new and better world of telecommunications, most economists and industry analysts agree, will arrive eventually. But they also agree that it will arrive first for business customers and only later for most of the nation's 100 million households.
Until the benefits of increased competition are widespread, analysts say, Federal and state regulators will give careful scrutiny to huge telecommunications deals like the Worldcom-MCI merger. Indeed, the deal will require the blessing of the Department of Justice, the Federal Communications Commission, state regulatory agencies and the European Commission.
"The companies can't dump consumers out of these deals, " said Eli Noam, the director of the Institute for Tele-Information at Columbia University's business school. "The companies have to play the game of bowing to consumer interests, no question. For all the rhetoric of deregulation, telecommunications is still a heavily regulated industry."
Most analysts expect the Worldcom-MCI merger to be approved eventually. But an even bigger deal -- the AT&T Corporation's contemplated acquisition of the SBC Communications Inc., a regional Bell company -- proved too much for regulators to swallow. Even though AT&T never officially acknowledged the widely reported talks between the two companies, the very idea of the merger brought an angry reaction from Reed E. Hundt, then chairman of the F.C.C., who said a merger of AT&T and a Bell company would never withstand antitrust scrutiny.
Such mergers, analysts say, will someday be accepted but not until politicians and regulators can point to evidence that deregulation is delivering lower bills and improved service for consumers. "The Government wants to see some of the fruits of deregulation, especially for all those residential customers who are voters, before it opens the gates all the way," said Bryan Van Dussen, director of the telecommunications practice at the Yankee Group, a research firm in Boston.
Worldcom and MCI say the merged company will be able to offer customers a bundled service of local, long-distance and Internet access. Executives of the two companies talked about making these packaged offerings -- priced at less than they would cost separately -- to residential customers eventually.
"But businesses are clearly going to see the benefits first," said Chris Landes, a consultant at Telechoice Inc., a research firm in Verona, N.J. "Consumers will not benefit initially."
The business-first rollout may be politically unpalatable to some, but it makes economic sense. Indeed, it is the way costly new technology has been dispersed in society for more than a century. Alexander Graham Bell presented the telephone as a product for the masses, but it was first used as a business-to-business tool, connecting stores and factories. Initially, only businesses could afford phones and they supplied the investment funds for building the nascent network. Once built, the network could also profitably support households as well, making the telephone a mass-market utility.
The same process, analysts say, should apply in the modern age of digital communications. Still, in the residential phone market, as in others, some customers will be sought out first by the companies.
The first group of households likely to be offered one-stop shopping for bundled phone, Internet and other services will be the 16 million affluent households with incomes of $75,000 or more. They run up higher phone bills and they have personal computers connected to the Internet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (94%); VZ (NYSE) (94%); T (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WORLDCOM INC; MCI COMMUNICATIONS CORP VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (94%); AT&T INC (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLDCOM INC; MCI COMMUNICATIONS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); MERGERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); APPROVALS (76%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; EBBERS, BERNARD J BERNARD J EBBERS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



256 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Adviser Agrees to Settle Conflict Charge Over Stocks

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10

 BODY:
President Clinton's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, agreed tonight to pay $23,043 to settle conflict-of-interest charges arising from his failure to sell oil company stocks.
Mr. Berger was told to sell the Amoco stock by the White House counsel's office three years ago, when he was deputy national security adviser. He said he had forgotten to do so for more than a year. 
 He thus became the second national security adviser in the Clinton Administration to run afoul of the conflict-of-interest statutes. His predecessor, Anthony Lake, also forgot orders to divest himself of energy stocks. Mr. Lake paid a $5,000 civil settlement last year, weeks before he withdrew his nomination to become Director of Central Intelligence.
The national security adviser theoretically has the power to move the world price of oil by advising the President to take military, political or economic action in oil-exporting foreign nations. The Justice Department said tonight that Mr. Berger did take actions, directly or indirectly, that could have affected the value of the stock, but that there was no criminal intent in his failure to sell the stock, only absent-mindedness.
"This was a mistake," Mr. Berger said in a statement issued by the National Security Council tonight.
The $23,043 represents the price increase and dividends in the stock, held by Mr. Berger's family, from the time he was told to sell it in March 1994 to the time he finally remembered to do it in June 1995, the Justice Department said.
It said there was no evidence that Mr. Berger intended to violate conflict-of-interest laws.
In a settlement filed in Federal District Court here, Mr. Berger said White House lawyers told him of the potential conflict of interest nearly four years ago. He said he meant to sell the stock, but let the matter slip his mind. A review of his financial disclosure statement in June 1995 prompted him to sell the 1,500 Amoco shares. The stock was in trusts, managed by trustees, not by Mr. Berger. Neither Mr. Berger, a prominent Washington lawyer before joining the Administration, nor his wife took active roles in managing those trusts, the Justice Department said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: AMOCO OIL CO AMOCO OIL CO (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMOCO OIL CO US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; STOCKS AND BONDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLITICS (79%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); BONDS (73%); ETHICS (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); 

PERSON: BERGER, SAMUEL R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WEINER, TIM BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



257 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: STANDOFF WITH IRAQ: THE STRATEGY;
Crumbling Walls: U.S. Effort to Isolate Both Iran and Iraq Is Fraying Badly

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 8

 BODY:
For six years, the United States has tried to rein in and isolate Iran and Iraq at the same time. The current confrontation with Iraq shows how much harder it gets, year by year, to keep Saddam Hussein under control. And perhaps more ominously, it comes as Iran is moving on its own toward breaking free of American-led restraints.
On Iraq, the American-led coalition is merely fraying, because President Saddam Hussein's crude challenges to the United Nations and the international system are creating temporary, collective unity against him. 
 But the parallel effort by the United States to contain Iran through economic sanctions is falling apart.
While the world's attention is on Iraq, where Mr. Hussein is preventing United Nations inspectors from monitoring what remains of his weapons program, senior American officials think the situation in Iran is much more dangerous in the long run. The United Nations has no comparable international monitoring of Iran's efforts to develop weapons of mass destruction and missiles capable of hitting Israel, Saudi Arabia and Europe, those officials said.
Yet Washington's efforts to impose on the rest of the world its policy of isolating Iran is causing deep rifts with its closest allies in Europe and Canada, as well as with Russia. The rift focuses on American efforts to impose sanctions on foreign companies that trade with Iran.
As Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright struggled last week with Iraq and tried to make some progress on the stagnant Israeli-Palestinian talks, other senior American officials were engaged in quiet, top-level discussions with the Europeans and Russians about Iran and how to avoid a situation in which the United States would actually impose punishment on foreign companies that do business there.
Formulated after the Persian Gulf war, the policy of trying to control both Iran and Iraq quickly acquired the label "dual containment." Now it seems in tatters.
"On dual containment, coalition cohesion is fraying, and it worries people like me," said Phebe Marr, a senior fellow at the National Defense University. "But it is much less frayed on Iraq than on Iran."
Richard Murphy, a former Assistant Secretary of State for Near East Affairs, said: "We have let our policy get frozen. It was sufficient to say 'dual containment.' But that's not a way our Government can afford to act."
Dual containment was a slogan created for a speech by President Clinton in May 1993. Congress turned it into a reality with the Iran-Libya Sanctions Act of 1996, proposed by Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, and embraced by Mr. Clinton.
Today, almost all of America's allies think that the policy as it applies to Iran is not working. "A reassessment of Iran policy is long overdue," a senior European diplomat said. "The United States is isolating itself more successfully than it is isolating Iran."
A senior British diplomat says the American effort to punish foreign companies for doing business in Iran is wholly unacceptable. "It throws us on the other side of the debate," he said.
The 1996 law requires sanctions against companies that invest more than $20 million in Iran's energy industry, but does allow the sanctions to be delayed or waived in the national interest if the countries involved show movement toward deterring terrorism from Iran.
Under the act, the United States is currently investigating five foreign energy companies that have announced two large deals with Iran. Those deals were interpreted as a direct challenge to American policy.
The most attention has been paid to a French oil company, Total, which on Sept. 28 signed a $2 billion contract to explore for gas in Iran. In fact, Total is a minority shareholder, with 40 percent of the deal, while 30 percent is held by Petronas, a Malaysian company, and another 30 percent by Gazprom, the huge Russian company that used to be the Soviet Ministry of Natural Gas and was run by the current Prime Minister, Viktor S. Chernomyrdin. The Russian Government itself still owns 40 percent of Gazprom.
The Americans are also investigating a $180 million deal to develop an offshore Iranian oilfield called Balal signed by the Canadian company, Bow Valley Energy Ltd., and its Indonesian partner, Bakrie Minarak.
Stuart E. Eizenstat, the Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, is in Europe working on those cases. Frank Wisner, a Clinton special envoy, is in Moscow on a mission to get Russia and its newly privatized companies to stop helping Iran develop missiles that can carry nuclear, chemical or biological weapons.
The latter issue has become a hot topic in Congress, with hundreds of legislators supporting draft legislation to punish Russian and other companies proven to be helping Iran's missile program.
Senior European diplomats say that American officials have told them they are looking for reasons to waive the sanctions against the five energy companies in the Iran energy deal. But Mr. Eizenstat says that the law is being followed with vigor.
"We are not looking for an excuse to exercise a waiver," Mr. Eizenstat said in a telephone interview from Frankfurt. "We are pursuing this investigation with alacrity, and sanctions are a very real, live option if these activities are found to be sanctionable after our investigation is completed."
But other senior American officials stress that the point of the 1996 legislation is to change Iranian behavior and make it harder for Teheran to develop missiles and other weapons, and to support terrorism. They admit that European nations are not important to such programs in Iran. Russia, China and North Korea are involved in such illicit weapons development but the Chinese have now promised to stop any nuclear cooperation with Iran.
The Europeans say the Americans are asking them to tighten existing restrictions on aiding Iran in developing weapons or missiles. This might allow the Clinton Administration to win a waiver of sanctions from Congress.
While the Clinton Administration still argues that economic pressure works against Iran, a senior British diplomat says that while sanctions have hurt the Iranian economy, "it has not made a jot of difference to Iran's aspirations to develop weapons of mass destruction, or to its work on those weapons, or to its support for terrorism."
"U.S. policy on Iran has sounded good but has not worked," he added. "This is a situation where the American system forces the United States to act against its own interests."
Another European diplomat agreed, saying that what will change Iranian behavior is Iranian politics, and that the United States should be encouraging more moderate trends there, finding ways to carefully boost the newly elected President, Ayatollah Mohammed Khatami.
"Except for Turkey, Iran is the only real country in the region, with 3,000 years of history," a European diplomat said. "It's a complicated country, with a real intellectual life. It's not Iraq. We should not have business as usual, because Iran is a dangerous country. But we can affect it and we should be talking to it."
American policy makers have told some allied diplomats privately that if it were not for the 1996 law -- and concern that Iran will be proven responsible for the truck-bomb attack on Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia, which killed 19 American servicemen -- Washington would be reviewing its Iran policy.
But American officials say they are looking at each day's intelligence from Iran for "serious signals" of altered Iranian behavior on the key issues of terrorism and weapons and missile development.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (93%); ISRAEL (92%); CANADA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (93%); ISRAEL (92%); CANADA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); DESERT STORM (73%); LEGISLATION (63%); FINES & PENALTIES (55%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



258 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Worldcom Raises Its Offer And Wins Deal With MCI
MCI Communications said it had agreed to be acquired by Worldcom for about $36.5 billion in cash and stock, a sweetened offer that would result in the richest merger in American business history.
The agreement came after British Telecommunications, which had a $19 billion deal to buy MCI, agreed instead to sell its stake in the company to Worldcom. Apparently left out in the battle for MCI is GTE, which had bid $28 billion. Page A1. 

Trade Bill Fails
President Clinton conceded that he lacked the Congressional votes for a bill that would have renewed the President's authority to negotiate trade agreements that Congress can either approve or disapprove but not amend. The Republican leaders of the House and Senate indicated that it was probably dead for the foreseeable future. A1.
 
Kodak Cuts to Be Detailed
Kodak's chief executive, George M. C. Fisher, is expected to disclose a long-awaited turnaround plan. While thousands of layoffs and other cuts are seen, some analysts were speculating that the measures would not go as far as they would like. Market Place. D16.
 
Dow Average Loses 28.73 Points
Stocks fell, giving up early gains, as investors worried about weak foreign markets. The Dow industrials closed at 7,552.59, down 28.73 points, with I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard leading the decline. The Nasdaq composite index fell 11.68 points, to 1,590.72. D16.
 
Treasuries were mixed in quiet trading ahead of tomorrow's meeting of the Fed's monetary policy committee. The 30-year bond yield fell to 6.14 percent from 6.16. D23.
 
The dollar fell to a 10-month low against the pound and a nearly six-month low against the Swiss franc on demand for currencies insulated from Asia's problems. D14.

Indonesian Bank Closings Set
Indonesia's Finance Minister insisted on the forced closing of three ailing banks partly owned by relatives of President Suharto, attempting to send a strong signal that the Government is serious about making painful economic reforms to deal with the Asian financial turmoil. A3.
 
Half a world away but touched by ripples from the same crisis, Brazil announced a drastic program of tax increases and spending cuts aimed at slashing its budget deficit and restoring international confidence in its currency and economy. A7.
 
Nike to Do It Differently?
Nike surprised Madison Avenue, saying that it was seeking ideas to build its flagship Nike brand from another agency in addition to Wieden & Kennedy, which developed the campaigns carrying the familiar "Just do it" theme. Nike is now seeking ideas from Goodby, Silverstein, too. Two other big marketers, I.B.M. and Ford, are also taking a second look at plans for blue-chip accounts. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. D12.
 
Waste Hauler To Sell Foreign Unit
Browning-Ferris agreed to sell its overseas operations to a unit of Suez Lyonnaise des Eaux of France for $1.45 billion, ending the Houston-based waste collector's international expansion plans. D8.

Nissan Profit Is Up Sharply
Nissan reported a 47 percent rise in pretax profit, to $366 million for its fiscal first half, thanks to cost reductions and higher exports. But a gloomy outlook for Japan's domestic market prompted the company to cut its profit forecast for the full year by 9 percent. D9.
 
Comcast Reports Loss
Comcast, owner of the QVC cable shopping network, reported a loss, as expected, for the third quarter, reflecting start-up costs and losses at affiliates. D12.
 
Retailer's Tepid Summer
May Department Stores, owner of Lord & Taylor and Filene's, reported weaker-than-expected profits for the July-September quarter, sending its stock lower. D8.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,552.59, down 28.73
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.14%, down 0.02
The Dollar -- 124.40 yen, up 0.18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (95%); VZ (NYSE) (95%); NKE (NYSE) (82%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (82%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (82%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (82%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (82%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (95%); NIKE INC (82%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MERGERS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); BONDS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (64%); BANK FAILURES (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



259 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: NYC;
Above 43d St., Every Second Still Counts

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
ON Friday, as she does every week, Kim Ramos phoned the Treasury Department and the Census Bureau for a set of numbers, which she handed to Laszlo Szabo, who computer-crunched them into a new battery of figures, which became the latest readings of the "national debt clock," which flashes on a nondescript building at West 43d Street and the Avenue of the Americas, aka Sixth Avenue.
And which has been a New York fixture since 1989, as people in midtown know. It is a tireless conscience, reminding us about the unconscionable growth of the United States debt. 
 If you had looked up at 43d and Sixth just before noon yesterday, you'd have seen that the tally stood at $5,427,672,390,421, unless you blinked for a second, in which case it was already up to $5,427,672,392,301, give or take a fin. (For the numerically challenged, that is $5.4 trillion-plus, or more than Bill Gates is worth. The sum grows at about $1,880 a second, and each family's share, the clock said yesterday in tacit disapproval, is $66,759.)
A conscience is a wonderful thing, especially when it shines without pause, save for the occasional burned-out bulb. But one person's conscience can be another's scold, and you have to wonder if the distinctions in this case have become blurred.
We are now told that the annual Federal budget deficit is a shadow of its former self: a mere $22.6 billion, compared with $290.4 billion five years ago. It is the smallest deficit since 1974. As a percentage of the nation's economic output, it is, to use the technical language of economists, bubkes. Why, Washington is talking giddily about a possible surplus in a couple of years, which means that the overall debt could actually be reduced.
In other words, it may be safely said that the message behind the national debt clock has been received and acknowledged. And so a question arises: might it not be time to give it a rest on Sixth Avenue? To talk to the people behind the clock -- more like a tote board, really -- the answer is no.
Thedevice was the brainchild of Seymour B. Durst, the real estate developer, who died two years ago and who liked the burgeoning national debt about as much as he did restrictive zoning codes. The task of building and maintaining the gizmo fell to the Artkraft Strauss Sign Corporation, which makes most of the dazzling signs in Times Square. It assigned two employees, Ms. Ramos and Mr. Szabo, to keep the numbers up to date each week, a chore that Mr. Szabo, for one, is happy to perform. "I believe that this debt is going to come back to haunt everybody," he said.
A MEN, said Douglas Durst, who succeeded his father, Seymour, as president of the Durst Organization. The clock goes on, he said, in tribute to his father and as recognition that we are not out of the debt woods. "Hopefully, we can soon show the effects of the budget surplus," Mr. Durst said.
"Should there be one," he quickly added, his voice carrying a hint of skepticism.
Since his clock has hung in for so long, it's surprising that others have not seized on the idea as a way to convey their own messages. "It is odd, because it's the oldest advertising medium known," said Tama Starr, president of Artkraft Strauss. "The posting of information in public places goes as far back as ancient Egypt."
Several years ago, Ms. Starr put together a "national death clock" in midtown, for a man who wanted to depict graphically the high number of shooting victims in this country. That sign did not last, however.
Why not new ones? Obvious choices could be matters of high national import, like the number of abortions performed, or women raped, or children abused.
But grimness need not be the only criterion. Simple quality-of-life issues matter, too. Imagine seeing for yourself how many Starbucks outlets open in New York every hour. Or how many times per minute the Mayor is asked whether he's running for higher office. Or how many Marv Albert stories per day appear in the local media.
One problem is that these signs are not cheap. The debt clock cost $150,000 to install, and needs $3,000 a year in maintenance, Mr. Durst said. And for all his troubles, he can never be sure that anyone really pays attention. Typical was a well-dressed man striding purposefully yesterday toward the subway station at 42d and Sixth. Did he ever look at the debt clock?
"Never," he replied crisply before disappearing below ground, where messages come mostly, as a modern troubadour has put it, in the words of the prophets written on the subway walls.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3993 SIGNS & ADVERTISING SPECIALTIES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ARTKRAFT STRAUSS SIGN CORP (61%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CENSUS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (66%); ZONING (60%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE; DURST, SEYMOUR BILL GATES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



260 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: STANDOFF WITH IRAQ: THE HISTORY;
7 Years of Evasion, Tons of Illicit Arms

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10

 BODY:
A seven-year game of hide-and-seek has allowed President Saddam Hussein to preserve his power to make chemical, biological and nuclear weapons capable of killing millions, United Nations and United States officials say.
While only about two dozen missiles are believed to be at his disposal today, the Iraqi leader could put together a destructive arsenal if political and economic sanctions are lifted, using the materiel and expertise he has hidden from weapons inspectors, United States officials say. 
 President Hussein's military and intelligence officers have used everything from paper shredders to preposterous excuses to keep the inspectors at bay. In the last six months, Iraq has presented the inspectors with a series of "cock-and-bull stories," as one United Nations official put it today.
A United Nations report issued last month contained a laundry list of those lies. Iraq delivered a report on its biological warfare program that was six years late and patently false. It lied about its destruction of missile launchers. It failed to account for missile warheads and engines. It tried to conceal its program to produce nerve agents.
This is so despite the cease-fire resolution that Iraq signed in 1991 at the end of the Persian Gulf war. The resolution gave United Nations inspectors the right to travel anywhere in Iraq to insure that weapons of mass destruction were not being made and to destroy them if found.
As a consequence of this continuing deception, Mr. Hussein still has tons of materiel for making nerve gas and germ weapons, and his Government keeps working on ways to put them into roughly 25 medium-range Scud missiles he has squirreled away, United States military and intelligence officers say.
The Iraqi leader has rebuilt his most important military assembly lines, including a missile plant. His nuclear weapons brain trust remains intact. He has all the equipment and expertise he needs to resume making weapons of mass destruction.
"His production capability has been put on hold" since the gulf war, said Gary Milhollin, a leading private analyst of weapons proliferation. "But his research effort has gone forward. We have to assume his scientists have progressed in understanding how to make better weapons of mass destruction."
The Iraqis have conducted covert operations and deception schemes to hide from the United Nations inspectors. In September they emptied chemical and biological weapons sites of incriminating evidence out the rear door of a building and kept inspectors waiting at the front door.
In the past, Iraqi officials have asserted that weapons-related documents and equipment were accidentally lost when they fell off the back of a truck, were destroyed in riots at a hospital or were tossed out with the trash by a housekeeper.
In a tale that gained mythic status among the United Nations team, Iraqi officials said one set of military records had been burned in a medical file cabinet by a defective X-ray machine.
"They almost never volunteer information," said one official familiar with the inspection team's work. "They wait until confronted with such overwhelming evidence that they are forced to confess their concealment and their lying."
The Iraqi campaign of concealment began days after the gulf war ended. "Iraq decided, in April 1991, to divide its missile force into two parts," said a report dated Oct. 6 issued by the United Nations Special Commission overseeing Iraqi weaponry. "It would present one part to the commission for destruction and illegally retain the second part."
Ever since, Iraq "has continued to try to develop chemical and biological weapons, and possibly even acquire nuclear materials," while "playing a hide-and-seek game" with the United Nations, Defense Secretary William S. Cohen said today.
In the beginning, United Nations inspectors focused on Iraq's nuclear weapons programs. They were able to find and destroy its technically advanced imported equipment for enriching uranium to be used in nuclear warheads.
"But they have not found the overall database for his nuclear weapons program," Mr. Milhollin said, "which lets one scientist build on the work of another. You can't destroy weapons research and development unless you kill people. And we know he has not disbanded any of his ballistic missile, nuclear weapons and chemical-biological working groups."
To protect those working groups, three elite services -- the Iraqi Intelligence Service, the Special Security Organization and the Republican Guard -- run an amply financed, highly sophisticated program to secretly import weapons equipment and to undermine inspections.
For example, in September a United Nations team on a 10-day inspection tour of suspected chemical and biological weapons plants "recorded evidence of the removal or movement of documents and records and the destruction of documents" at three sites, the Oct. 6 report said. The documents were hidden and destroyed "while the team was waiting to be allowed to enter."
This kind of resistance is one reason why the United Nations search-and-destroy mission against Iraq's biological weapons has been "unredeemed by progress" since it started, the report said.
Last month, the Iraqis gave the United Nations a declaration of "full, final and complete disclosure" of the biological warfare program. That report, the United Nations said, "fails to give a remotely credible account" of the program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (58%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); MEDICAL RECORDS (66%); EVIDENCE (50%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



261 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: THE TRADE BILL: THE IMPACT;
A Handicap, but Clinton Still Has Trade Leverage

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10

 BODY:
Until today, no Congress had ever blocked a major American initiative toward freer trade since Franklin D. Roosevelt started slashing America's sky-high tariffs in 1934. Even in the depths of recession, the closing of steel and textile mills in the 1970's, and the rise of Japan in the 80's, Congress always came to the reluctant conclusion that freer trade benefits more American workers than it harms.
So what culminated early this morning, when President Clinton angrily concluded that neither persuasion nor deal-making would attract the votes he needed for broad authority to negotiate new trade accords, marked a resounding change. It began with the heated debate over Nafta four years ago, and gathered speed even in an economic boom that has made the country the world's sole economic superpower. 
 But in a world where trade is conducted with increasing disregard for government policies, does the angry statement that thundered off Capitol Hill change very much? Will the President really be hamstrung as he tries to negotiate trading rules with countries that suspect Congress will rewrite any concessions he makes?
Just as important, will other nations -- particularly Asian countries looking for any excuse in their economic turmoil to hold off demands that they open their markets -- use the action of Congress as an excuse?
"There's a lot we don't yet know about what this will mean," Commerce Secretary William M. Daley said today as the Administration was licking its wounds. "But anyone who believes this is just a blip may not be thinking it all the way through."
Most likely, the effects on American power will be subtle, and may not play out for years. President Clinton, for all his protestations, will hardly find himself powerless in the economic arena.
Just as the President has a huge range of military options available to face down military threats, his economic arsenal remains fearsome. He retains broad authority to declare economic sanctions, even closing the huge American market to trading partners who refuse to open their own. After all, even without so-called fast-track negotiating authority, Mr. Clinton has struck more than 100 trade accords since 1994, including major agreements with Japan and China. None, however, required changes in American laws, and thus Congressional approval.
While the President is armed with plenty of sticks, however, what Congress denied him this weekend was any carrots. And in the next few years, he may need plenty.
The art of trade negotiating these days has less to do with one-on-one confrontations with other countries -- the talks that get most of the headlines -- than with the numbingly complex talks that involve scores of nations at a time. Those are the accords that, in the last year, have greatly eased the barriers around the world to trade in computers, chips and telecommunications equipment, areas where the United States is the competitive champion. A full agenda of impending negotiations, in hard-fought areas that range from agriculture to computer services, will be starting in the next two years.
"I'd like to think we can still move ahead with an ambitious trade agenda," Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative, said today, trying to put the best face on things. But Ms. Barshefsky is a realist, and she knows that she cannot credibly promise changes in American laws if Congress has the power to reopen whatever deal she strikes.
In short, without fast track authority, one of Ms. Barshefsky's former deputies noted, she cannot utter this sentence: "If all of you do A, B and C, here's what the United States can do for you in return." And Ms. Barshefsky herself, arguing her case in the halls of Congress for the last few months, insisted that unless American negotiators hold the power of dangling incentives, "many other countries will not negotiate with us."
In many cases, that may be true. But in others, economic Realpolitik will take over, Congress or no Congress. America remains the world's biggest market, and the one where every Indian entrepreneur, Italian designer and Malaysian automaker wants to sell his goods.
"There will still be progress, because there are companies around the world that share an interest in getting rid of the political obstacles to doing business," said Mickey Kantor, the former trade representative and a veteran of scores of negotiations. "The only question is whether those deals will be struck with us, or around us. The Canadians understand that. The Europeans understand it. It's only Congress that is having trouble with it."
But the vast majority of Mr. Clinton's own party told him during this debate that American trade policy is skewed in the wrong direction. They sought to equalize the terms of competition between workers in the United States and other countries rather than focus on protecting intellectual property rights or other corporate interests.
The House minority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, who led the opposition to the fast-track bill, said, "What we are looking for is the chance to put workers' interests first."
While Congress and the White House argue over priorities, however, the risk is that other nations will use Washington's stalemate for their own purposes. And often those purposes are to hold off pressure for them to open up.
"You'll see a lot of interesting reactions in the next few days," predicted Robert Pastor, an Emory University political scientist and expert on relations with Latin America. "Publicly, a lot of countries will express disapointment. But privately there will be relief, especially in countries like Brazil, which was not ready to move quickly to a free trade area of the Americas. And Congress has just given them the excuse."
The first test may come later this month, when President Clinton meets Asian leaders at their annual summit meeting, in Vancouver, British Columbia.
The first of those meetings, in 1993, was brimming over with optimism. Asia was booming, and talking about creating a regional free trade zone. Mr. Clinton was fresh from his victory in Congress for Nafta, the trade agreement that linked the United States, Mexico and Canada, and preaching the need for a foreign policy that spread democracy by spreading the tentacles of trade.
The mood this year will be very different. Battered by currency devaluations, stock market crashes and failing banks, the Asian nations are not in a hurry to let in a lot of new competition. And Mr. Clinton is not exactly in good shape to give speeches about how America is leading the way. He could have the same problem in the spring, at a Latin American meeting in Santiago, Chile, where he is supposed to follow up on a commitment to extend Nafta throughout Latin America. "It could be a pretty hollow summit," Professor Pastor said.
If so, Mr. Clinton has learned, his own inattention to the domestic repercussions of Nafta may be to blame.
"Members of Congress would come in and say 'This is hard for me; two plants closed in my district in the past year,' " said Gene Sperling, the head of Mr. Clinton's National Economic Council. "Then they would raise their hands and say, 'I know, I know, the closings had nothing to do with Nafta.' "
That may be the true lesson of the fast track debate. The reality, Mr. Clinton insisted until his voice grew hoarse, was 4.9 percent unemployment and a booming economy. But the perception across America is that trade agreements lead to anxiety about whether jobs will disappear. And perceptions won the day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN POWER CONNECTION (53%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FABRIC MILLS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



262 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: THE TRADE BILL: THE WHITE HOUSE;
Party, Spurned, Repays Clinton With Rebellion

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10

 BODY:
Since he first announced for the Presidency in 1991, Bill Clinton has almost always kept the Democratic Party at arm's length, saying that his ambition was to rise above the "brain-dead politics" of both parties. To prove his independence from his party, Mr. Clinton stiff-armed Democrats on welfare, crime and the balanced budget.
Then he tried to do it again, this time on trade policy. He got Republicans on board. But his staff miscalculated in drafting the bill, the President insulted Congressional Democrats, and the longstanding estrangment between Mr. Clinton and the Congressional wing of his party became outright rebellion. 
 Just after 2 A.M. today, his fellow Democrats chewed off the arm that Mr. Clinton had used to hold them off. They left him, at least for now, a President without a party.
In the end, he was unable to command enough loyalty or fear to win even a quarter of the votes of the House Democratic Caucus. Mr. Clinton's own party has dealt him one of the most humiliating political defeats of his Presidency.
The trade debate also marked the unofficial beginning of the 2000 Presidential campaign. Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader and the captain of the anti-fast-track forces, emerged a decisive victor over Vice President Al Gore, who hewed to the Administration line and will pay the price in lost labor money and organizational support.
The President need not look far for the roots of his failure to win so-called fast-track negotiating authority, the power Presidents since Gerald R. Ford have had to negotiate trade treaties that Congress can approve or reject, but not amend.
Interviews with participants on Capitol Hill and senior White House staff members revealed that a number of mistakes and miscalculations by the White House contributed to the President's loss today. Some of the errors were tactical, some substantive and some personal.
But the most surprising mistakes were made by the President, who late last week said that he would win the trade vote easily if it were held in secret, suggesting that lawmakers who opposed the measure did so only because they feared retaliation by labor or environmental groups.
He then compounded the error by asserting that a vote for the bill was a "no-brainer," implying that opponents were acting irrationally.
Those words came back to haunt the White House on Saturday in a bitter confrontation between Representative Peter DeFazio, an Oregon Democrat, and Erskine B. Bowles, the President's aristocratic chief of staff.
Mr. DeFazio, recalling the President's characterizations of the bill's opponents, lashed out at Mr. Bowles, whose wife's family made a fortune in textiles in the South. Calling Mr. Clinton's questioning of lawmakers' motives "outrageous and insulting," Mr. DeFazio said it was tantamount to accusing Mr. Bowles of favoring fast track not on its merits, but to increase the value of his stock portfolio. Several members of the Democratic Caucus jeered at Mr. DeFazio. But others applauded -- and it was their votes that cost the President.
Winning would in any event have been difficult for the President because the issue went to the heart of the Democratic Party's dispute over trade and domestic economics. Many Democrats see blue-collar workers forced into a "race to the bottom" through competition with developing countries that do not have the labor laws and environmental protections of the United States.
But the depth of Mr. DeFazio's anger made it abundantly clear that the President's own discordant words had made success impossible.
This morning Mr. Clinton vowed to try again next year to pass the fast-track bill and offered a partial apology for his words.
He said many Democrats who opposed the trade bill were doing so because of concerns about their constituents, not out of fear of labor retaliation. "I did not question their integrity," the President said, "I questioned their judgment."
But Mr. Clinton's failure was about more than a relatively arcane trade measure. It was a result of long estrangement between him and the Democrats. He declared the party intellectually bankrupt six years ago when he said he sought a "third way" between heartless Republicanism and failed liberalism.
His missteps in his first two years in office cost Democrats control of Congress in 1994. His appropriation of the party apparatus to support his re-election drive last year left the party under a legal cloud and $15 million in debt -- and the Republicans still in charge of both houses of Congress.
He allied himself on the trade issue with the Republican leadership: Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the House Speaker, and Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Senate majority leader. He waited until late -- mid-September -- to introduce his version of fast-track legislation.
By then organized labor had been in the field for months, working in Congressional districts across the country to drum up opposition.
In late August union members were told to begin flooding their legislators with letters and phone calls, and they did. That flood grew in September. For example, at Steelworkers Local 2705 in Hibbing, Minn., the local's 700 members sent a total of 1,800 letters to the local Congressman and to Minnesota's two Senators.
Labor leaders, often working with environmental groups, also organized anti-fast-track demonstrations in Chicago, Dallas and New York City. At one baseball game in San Francisco, the teamsters' union gave out peanuts and scorecards printed with an anti-fast-track message on the back.
When Mr. Clinton finally did introduce a bill, it was written to attract Republican support and did not include protections of labor and environmental standards demanded by Democrats and allies in the union and environmental movements.
A senior White House aide involved in drafting the bill said the approach reflected the Administration's arrogance as well as inRepublican flexibility. Republicans, the aide said, insisted that the bill not contain language on labor or environmental protections.
"We figured we always pull these things out in the end and we'd pull this one out, too," said the official, who insisted on anonymity.
As the President was unveiling his fast-track bill in the East Room of the White House, opponents across Pennsylvania Avenue were shouting anti-free-trade slogans.
Supporters of free trade -- chiefly big corporations that thrive on exports -- did not begin their lobbying effort until this fall. Big business sat and did nothing, said a wrathful Presidential adviser looking for scapegoats.
There are other causes of the President's defeat. After his narrow victory in 1993 on the North American Free Trade Agreement -- another issue that left the Democrats split -- Mr. Clinton did little to follow through on promises made to secure Democratic support.
He was forced to make similar promises last week to assemble the votes he needed. But according to members of Congress who heard his urgent appeal, it had lost its allure the second time around.
"We got nothing but broken promises out of Nafta," said Representative Esteban Torres, a California Democrat and a leader of the Hispanic Caucus. "I don't think anybody in the caucus appreciated the smoke-and-mirrors pitch he made to us."
Mr. Torres said Hispanic members of Congress were particularly concerned about job loss and environmental degradation along the Mexico-United States border. Despite pledges that such problems would be addressed by Government programs, the Clinton Administration never followed through.
"It was just a terrible, terrible failure," he said.
Ten members of the caucus sent the President a letter late last week saying they would not support the current trade measure because of the disappointments of Nafta. Those 10 votes would have given Mr. Clinton a majority.
One fast-track supporter and White House adviser said the failure to deal with opponents' concerns had been fatal. "These guys were not driven by labor money but by their own constituencies," said this adviser, who insisted on anonymity.
And, this adviser added, this time the President's trademark procrastination cost him in a big way.
"It reminds me of how I got my term papers done in college," the adviser said, "but that's no way to run a country."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (64%); WELFARE FRAUD (57%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR); BRODER, JOHN M BILL CLINTON (92%); ERSKINE BOWLES (78%); PETER A DEFAZIO (78%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



263 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
Clinton Concedes Defeat On Fast Track Trade Bill
President Clinton conceded that the trade bill he once called crucial to the nation's global leadership was dead for this year. Republican leaders in Congress agreed with him. A1 

Iraq Attacks U.S. in Words Only
American U-2 surveillance flights over Iraq were not shot down despite threats to do so from Baghdad. Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz called Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright a liar while pressing his country's case at the United Nations. A1
 
An Inquisition of Sorts in Poland
A seminar on the crisis in Poland in 1980 and 1981 was held in Warsaw, attended by the protagonists of the tense era when martial law was imposed and members of the Solidarity movement arrested. Former Soviet military officers and White House officials attended along with Polish participants. Their various tales about one of the cold war's last dramas raised questions about whether Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, the Polish leader, was forced to impose martial law to save his country from invasion, as he claimed at the time, and about a mixed signal that may have been sent by George Bush. A4
 
A Test for Extradition Protocol
United States officials said they would seek to prosecute a Mexican citizen arrested in Tijuana over the weekend. The man was captured by Mexican federal police agents and charged with conspiring to distribute more than 2,200 pounds of cocaine north of the border. American agents suspected him of being linked to a notorious Tijuana-based drug organization and said they would ask Mexico to extradite him. A12
 
Yeltsin Welcomed in China
President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia and President Jiang Zemin of China embraced in Beijing, chatted about their grandsons and settled some disputes on the border between their two countries. Mr. Yeltsin praised Mr. Jiang's command of Russian. A3
 
Indonesia Lets Banks Fail
Finance Minister Marie Muhammad told the Indonesian Parliament that the closures of 16 failed banks would stand, regardless of the fact that three of them were partly owned by relatives of President Suharto. Few Indonesians had ever seen the pecuniary interests of members of the President's family stymied in such a way. A3
 
In Brazil, Biting the Bullet
Resolved to protect its currency from devaluation, Brazil announced an austere program of tax increases and spending cuts aimed at reducing its budget deficit and convincing international markets that its currency is stable. Taxes were increased on personal income and some consumer goods. The measures, compounded by the doubling of interest rates by the central bank, were expected to slow what had been a booming Brazilian economy, but, if successful, squelch the risk of inflation, which has been the touchstone of Fernando Henrique Cardoso's presidency. A7
 
NATIONAL A16-23
 
British Au Pair Freed By Massachusetts Judge
Louise Woodward, a British au pair who had faced a long prison sentence following her murder conviction in the death of a child in her care, was released by a state judge who reduced her charge to involuntary manslaughter and sentenced her to the time she had already served. A1
 
Conviction in C.I.A. Murders
A Pakistani immigrant was convicted of murder for killing two C.I.A. employees stuck in rush-hour traffic outside the intelligence agency's Virginia headquarters nearly five years ago. Mir Amal Kansi, 33, faces a possible death sentence. A19
 
Survey of I.R.S. Dropped
Republican leaders in Congress dropped their plan to survey taxpayers next year about the performance of the Internal Revenue Service, bowing to opposition from Democrats who called it a partisan ploy and a waste of money. A20
 
Security Adviser to Pay Fine
President Clinton's national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, will pay $23,043 to settle conflict-of-interest charges arising from his failure to sell oil company stocks. Mr. Berger was told to sell the stock by the White House counsel's office three years ago, when he was deputy national security adviser. He said he had forgotten to do so for more than a year. A21
 
Hate Crime Conference Opens
President Clinton convened a White House Conference on Hate Crimes, saying that such acts "strike at the heart of what it means to be an American." Mr. Clinton endorsed forthcoming legislation that would add to the list of Federal hate crimes acts against people because they are gay, lesbian, female or disabled. A20
 
Unabomber Planned 'Revenge'
The Unabom attacks by Theodore J. Kaczynski were part of a "plan for revenge on society" and when his bombs failed, he was disappointed, his journals show, according to a detailed account from prosecutors who are to begin their case against him this week. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Crew Faults School In Death of Girl
In a blunt admission of fault, Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew said that Sabrina Green -- the 9-year-old girl who was found dead last Saturday covered with bruises, burns and with a missing thumb -- never attended a day of school this academic year, and that school officials did not adequately try to find out why. A1
 
Port Authority Bars Carey
In a dispute that could affect thousands of people commuting to New York City's airports, the Port Authority has suddenly canceled its 47-year-old agreement with Carey Bus Lines to provide airport service from midtown Manhattan and replaced it with Gray Line New York, the city's largest tour bus company. B1
 
Pataki Seeks Campaign Funds
Gov. Pataki has embarked on a week-long cross-country fund-raising trip that will add another half-million dollars to his already formidable re-election bank account. B1
 
FASHION B7
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Justice restored; "fast track" is derailed; November darkness, November light; free speech at New Paltz.
 
Columns: Russell Baker, Frank Rich, A. M. Rosenthal.
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-8
 
HEALTH F7
 
Warning on Cholesterol Drug
Drugs that lower people's cholesterol levels to prevent heart attacks may also dull their mental edge, a study says. About four million Americans now take the most popular of these medicines, a class of drugs known as statins. F7
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-27
 
MCI Chooses Worldcom
MCI Communications, the nation's No. 2 long-distance telephone company, said it had agreed to be acquired for about $36.5 billion in cash and stock by Worldcom in a deal that would be the biggest merger in American business history. A1
 
No Oracle Deal for Apple
Steven P. Jobs, the acting chief executive of Apple, said the struggling computer maker would begin selling by way of the Internet and building computers to order in its factories. His announcement did not include a rumored network computer deal with Oracle that had been predicted by a number of publications. D1
 
Stock Indexes Decline
Most stock indexes fell as concerns about slower growth in international markets, particularly Southeast Asia, erased early gains. The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 7,552.59, down 28.73 points. D16
 
Business Digest D1
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
ARTS E1-10
 
OBITUARIES B8
 
Chess E4
 
Crossword E8
 
Chronicle A25
 
Weather C7

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); INDONESIA (93%); BRAZIL (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); POLAND (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); WARSAW, POLAND (72%); BEIJING, CHINA (68%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); INDONESIA (93%); BRAZIL (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); POLAND (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); WARSAW, POLAND (72%); BEIJING, CHINA (68%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS EXTRADITION (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); TAX INCREASES (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); BUDGETS (66%); COCAINE (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); DEVALUATION (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



264 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: Power Lunch Is 2 in a Row, Just New York Minutes Each

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
In the hushed forest-green of the dining room at Le Bernardin in Manhattan, people are racing against the clock. On any weekday, at least five or six of the 35 tables are having the "Timely Lunch," a menu introduced in May that promises four stars in 30 minutes or less.
Think of it as a kind of "foot on the gas" dining experience geared toward the finish line. "They're here for a purpose -- business," Maguy Le Coze, Le Bernardin's owner, said of her midday clientele. "Eric, my chef, pushed me to do something faster, because we had customers saying, 'We're in a rush.' " 
 Ms. Le Coze and her 30-minute lunch bunch are not lone speeders. Thirty minutes would have left Kal Ruttenstein, fashion director of Bloomingdale's, with 10 minutes to kill. Mr. Ruttenstein has done business over lunch at 44, the Royalton Hotel restaurant, in 20 minutes -- between fashion shows.
His order: rare tuna. "I couldn't have done it if I'd asked for it well done," Mr. Ruttenstein said.
In the red-meat economy of 1997, the business lunch is executive bread-breaking at a kind of neck-snapping pace. For anyone who can remember the three-martini lunch, meet the 0.3 martini lunch. Hold the martini.
"You're basically trying to make a phone call with a meal," said Jerry Della Femina, chief executive of the advertising agency Jerry & Ketchum.
If you can do lunch in half the time, you can also do it twice. At least. Some business diners are double- and triple-decking their lunches like club sandwiches.
"The idea of entertaining at lunch is an oxymoron now," said Sally Quinn, a journalist and author of "The Party: A Guide to Adventurous Entertaining" (Simon & Schuster, 1997). "People don't drink; they eat salads. They want in and out."
If nobody has the time for lunch, nobody's giving it up, either. The power breakfast and the early-bird, 5:30 working dinner are not about to unseat the business lunch in restaurants across town or across the country. But the midday time-belt cinch has produced odd bulges. "People are definitely trying to do in one hour what they did in two," said Susan Lyne, executive vice president of the motion picture group at Walt Disney Company. "There's no foreplay to lunch anymore," she added.
More than two dozen restaurants in midtown report similar Type-A feeding behavior at lunchtime, from media-industry heavies like Michael's and the Judson Grill to the Four Seasons and 57-57, both popular with the investment and banking communities.
How is the double lunch done?
"You have one lunch at 12:15," said Marcy Posner, an agent at the William Morris Agency. "You make your next lunch at 1:30. It's not hard to do -- some people like to eat early, some late."
Ms. Posner holds the fort at her regular table at Michael's. The restaurant resets it between guests. "It's a finely timed thing," Ms. Posner said. "But people are very understanding about your having a limited amount of time. Sometimes I introduce them," she added.
Restaurants will also hold two tables and move a host between guests, when introductions between interested parties would be more collision than collusion. Think of it as culinary call-waiting.
"The host will inform us: 'Listen, I have two guys; I don't want the one to know the other is here,' " said John Sheedy, the day manager of 57-57. "We have a very big restaurant -- we would arrange to have the second guest at the other end from the first table."
Mr. Della Femina, an East Hampton restaurateur himself, has bounced in and out of three restaurants for one lunch.
"An appetizer at the Four Seasons with one client, then a bowl of clams as a main course with another client at '21,' dessert and coffee with a third," he said. "It's not about socializing; it's about being able to discuss things without associates running in and out of your office."
How does Mr. Della Femina effect the delicate art of taking leave of his first guest?
"You say, 'I have an appointment,' " he said. "The worst thing you can say to someone is, 'I'm leaving you now because I'm going to have lunch with someone else.' "
Some people run a quick defense about the game of musical tables and musical guests. Anna Wintour, editor of Vogue, says she never double-lunches. She's still smarting from being serial-breakfasted by the "very famous film executive" who stacks his guests like pancakes. She discovered the list next to his plate when he got up to go to the bathroom. "There was someone scheduled every 15 minutes," she said. "I was horrified."
It should surprise no one, but the double lunch is also bicoastal.
"I've done it at the Grill," said Bob Bookman, an agent at Creative Artists Agency, referring to the Grill on the Alley in Beverly Hills, Calif. Mr. Bookman lunches out four days a week and occasionally double-lunches. He's up front about it with both parties." You disclose what you're doing," Mr. Bookman said. "You say: 'I have this problem; I need to see both of you.' "
Robert Spivak, a founding partner of the Grill, said, "It's much more prevalent in the last year." He fingers "the aggressive newcomer."
"It's the agents," Mr. Spivak said, "who are finding they can get more deals done."
Some industry folk base their lunch bookings on the same yield-management that the airlines' use: they double-book and assume that someone will fail to show. "It's a crisis-motivated town, so I know I'll have cancellations," said one Miramax marketing executive who insisted on anonymity.
For now, popular business restaurants in Chicago, Boston and Washington report that the rest of the country seems to be holding the line at the single lunch, though the business hour has been shrunk past a psychiatrist's hour: to 45 minutes.
Spruce, a restaurant in Chicago popular with advertising and publishing executives, has an Executive Privileges program. Regular lunch guests pre-program their visits by filling out a questionnaire about food and service preferences. It helps return them to their desk in under an hour.
Dan Sachs, the owner, has seen no evidence of the serial lunch.
"This is Chicago, not New York," he said.
Once an open field for the big bicoastal players, the 30-minute lunch is becoming more routine for the average unstoppable New Yorker, who looks at a pause in the day like lunch the way a cabbie looks at a red light.
"With my to-do list -- the things I have to cross off -- when my day starts at 6:00 and ends at 9:30, I have to squeeze every moment in I can," said Karen Druziako, divisional vice president of Access Accounting Professionals, who ordered the $32 prix fixe "Timely Lunch" last week at Le Bernardin. (Two-courses, not three -- coffee, no dessert -- shaves $10 and 30 minutes off the regular prix fixe.) Ms. Druziako will meet up to 9 people at breakfast, from 6 to 7 A.M., and often has multiple lunches, commuting between her own table and a client's table.
"Do I want to work that way? Absolutely not," she said. "But you only have certain hours in the day to do business. The people I meet with -- we're all doing the same thing. It's basically time management."
The 30-minute lunch and the double lunch may be bringing more people together, but it's dividing as it conquers.
"I'd call it the indigestion special," said Ken Aretsky, owner of Patroon, who claims to have seen no 30 minute record-setting or double lunches.
Nor has Drew Nieporent, owner of Nobu and TriBeCa Grill. "They're lucky enough to get the first table," he said.
At some restaurants, including Lespinasse, business lunchers are booking in and checking out more quickly this fall. "It's easier to get a reservation for lunch than it was a year ago," said Janie Esparza, assistant to the chef, Gray Kunz, confirming what managers at Chanterelle and Le Bernardin had to say. At Lespinasse 70 percent of the lunch crowd is choosing the prix fixe, the quickest full meal one can order.
But it's still too soon to tell whether cutting into the business hour will cut into profits. "If it became more popular, we'd have to sit down and rethink it," said Sally A. Sarmiento, general manager of Le Bernardin, speaking of the Timely Lunch.
 So what do the powerful put down to stay light as prizefighters on their feet?
"The Cobb salad at Michael's -- without the bacon, without the avocado," said Susan Lyne at Disney.
"A rare hamburger and a micro-waved potato," Anna Wintour said, describing her Concorde-like one-course meal.
 Why the rush? Is it only a quick cash-in on economic opportunities in a bull business market, or is it something subtler? If time is precious, there are those who will try wearing it on their sleeve.
"Time is a currency now, whereby people maintain their status," said Dr. John Robinson, director of the Americans' Use of Time Project at the University of Maryland. "One way of demonstrating your power is to make your time scarce. 'I'm too busy -- a.k.a. too important -- to spend the whole lunch on one deal, or one meal.' "
Juliet Schor, a Harvard economist and the author of "The Overworked American: The Unexpected Decline in Leisure" (Basic Books, 1992), said: "It's a longer-term trend than just a good economy."
"Business lunches in restaurants are a visible conspicuous consumption norm," she explained. "When those intensify, people have to do it just to stay in the game. The new status symbol might be, 'Was I the solo guest?' "
Dr. Robinson has good and bad news for get-aheaders who meal and deal quickly to succeed. "We found that time is irrelevant," he said, referring to a study published this year. "There doesn't seem to be much relationship between how people spend their time and their success. "You could have a five-minute lunch and close a deal, and an extra five minutes could mean a disagreement."
Dr. Robinson's next time-study project: sex.
Don't ask.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At 12:41 P.M., left, Jerry Della Femina orders lunch at the Four Seasons restaurant. At 1:43 P.M., Mr. Della Femina and his second set of guests get menus at Fresco, a block away on 52d Street. He says he may have an appetizer with one client, clams with another and dessert and coffee with a third. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. B6); 1. Marcy Posner, right, greets Sugar Rautbord. 2. The two women are seated at Ms. Posner's regular table at Michael's Restaurant. 3. Ms. Rautbord departs; the table at Michael's is reset for a second lunch. 4. Ms. Posner greets her next guest, Jennifer Josephy. 5. Ms. Josephy, left, and Ms. Posner order lunch before getting down to business. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (61%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (61%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (61%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (61%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (61%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FASHION SHOWS (68%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%); JOURNALISM (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, WILLIAM L MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



265 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Blacks' Story of Harassment Is the Backdrop for New Fines

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10

 BODY:
William and Gloria Smith finally found a place they wanted to live in 1993, on two acres of land in Belle, W.Va., just south of Charleston. Two years later, they put up a home.
That is when the trouble began. 
 For more than a year after they moved in, the Smiths contend, members of the family living next door harassed them with racial epithets, threatened them with weapons and several times tried to run Mrs. Smith off the road while she was driving. Once, the Smiths say, a white cross appeared on the neighbors' lawn -- with toy ducks, painted black, hanging from the crossbar.
The Smiths are black. Their neighbors, John and Mary Hobbs and their son, John Wayne Hobbs, and his wife, Brenda, are white.
Until today, the Smiths' travails were little-known outside the Charleston area. But today, as President Clinton convened a conference on hate crimes, the Smiths were included in a news conference at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, where Housing Secretary Andrew M. Cuomo announced that the Administration would increase civil penalties for hate crimes committed in any neighborhood.
Using the Smiths' case as an example, Mr. Cuomo said that if the any of the Hobbses were found liable under the new regulations, each could be fined $11,000 for every offense, with a total limit of $55,000. Under the previous regulation, a first-time offender could be fined $11,000 for all the acts he was found to have committed.
""We would like to be able to say this case is unique," Mr. Cuomo said. "It is far from unique. We have received about 34,000 complaints, although this situation is somewhat more dramatic."
The Hobbses had little to say on the matter. Mary Hobbs declined to comment and said her husband, a retired laborer, would have nothing to say. "But I deny all accusations," Mrs. Hobbs added.
John Wayne Hobbs, an unemployed truck driver, said there was "no truth" to any of the Smith complaints. "I don't recall any of that happening," he said.
West Virginia has relatively few black residents, just 3.1 percent of the state's 1.7 million people, according to the 1990 census, which also showed that of the 1,408 residents of Belle, only 10 were black.
Mr. Smith, 30, a Navy veteran and now a lineman for a power company, said it did not take him and his wife long to decide that the Hobbses did not want them and their three children, Courtney, 5 years old; William, 4, and Cierra, 18 months, living next door.
"It is very difficult to raise children when you live next door to hatred," Mrs. Smith, 26, said.
Mr. Smith continued: "You wonder if they are going to break your windows out, if they're going to burn your house down."
The Smiths began legal proceedings against the Hobbses last March, by filing housing discrimination complaints with HUD and with the West Virginia Human Rights Commission.
The housing agency found probable cause to take the case before an administrative law judge or into Federal court. The Smiths have until Nov. 18 to decide which route, if any, they will pursue.
In interviews with the investigator, Ira Goldstein, witnesses corroborated some of the Smiths' accounts.
The report states that one witness, who was not identified, said John Hobbs told her that he "planned to gather poisonous snakes, i.e. rattlesnakes and copperheads, and put them on the Complainants' dwelling site."
Mr. Smith said that since the investigation began, the Hobbses have not bothered his family.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chuenne Sampson of Brooklyn getting an embrace from President Clinton yesterday at the White House Conference on Hate Crimes. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (90%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; DISCRIMINATION; HATE CRIMES; FINES (PENALTIES); BLACKS HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); CRIMINAL FINES (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); RACE & RACISM (76%); FAMILY (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); CITIES (52%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CUOMO, ANDREW M (SEC); SMITH, WILLIAM (WEST VA RESIDENT); SMITH, GLORIA ANDREW CUOMO (87%); BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



266 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: THE TRADE BILL: THE OVERVIEW;
CLINTON RETREATS ON TRADE POWER; PROSPECTS SLIGHT

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 10

 BODY:
President Clinton conceded today that the trade legislation he had called crucial to the nation's global leadership was dead for this year, and the Republican leader of the Senate said that the measure's chances of being passed are even more remote for next year, when Congress is up for re-election.
"Politically it will probably be next to impossible," Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader, said. 
 The early morning announcement by Republican leaders that they were shelving the bill at Mr. Clinton's request, rather than allowing the measure to be defeated, marked Mr. Clinton's most severe legislative setback since his proposal for national health care died in 1994.
The House legislation would have extended the authority that all Presidents since Gerald R. Ford have had in negotiating trade agreements that Congress can either approve or disapprove but not amend. Mr. Clinton let those powers lapse three years ago rather than risk a vote that would have splintered the Democrats. He sought to renew the powers only this year.
The decision to shelve the bill came after a long weekend of increasingly desperate arm-twisting and political wrangling by the White House --and considerable efforts by the Speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich -- that still left supporters short by a handful of votes.
For Mr. Clinton, the defeat indicated that despite his high popularity he has been unable to sell his vision of trade expansion to either the American public or a significant section of his own party. Many on Capitol Hill were saying quietly that the setback was the beginning of the President's lapse into lame-duck status.
The legislative defeat also marked the first time in decades that any President had lost a major Congressional initiative toward freer trade.
"I sense a tone of protectionism that is harder than I have seen in the 27 years that I have been in Congress," said Representative Bill Archer, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, who had worked with the Clinton administration to draft the bill.
Today Mr. Clinton, seeking to minimize his loss, said he would "regroup a little bit and find a way to succeed." The President denied that his loss on this issue was as significant as his defeat on national health care, which he described as "caught up in politics and partisanship in even a more profound way."
He said of health care, "When it was dead, it was dead. This is not dead. I will be very surprised if we are not successful in developing a bipartisan, constructive, successful approach to fast track before this Congress is over."
But Mr. Gingrich was cautious about assessing when the legislation could be revived.
Organized labor and House Democrats, who overwhelmingly rejected the trade policy of their party's President, were jubilant. Democratic leaders predicted that their strength would force Mr. Clinton to rethink his approach to the global economy, and to use the power of trade sanctions to keep developing nations from lowering labor and environmental standards to win in the global marketplace.
"The real question before us now is whether we can connect our values of environmental quality, worker and human rights to our economic policy," said the House minority leader, Richard A. Gephardt, who trumped the President and set down a marker for 2000, when he is expected to mount a primary challenge against Vice President Gore.
Mr. Gephardt said he would introduce a trade measure later this week that he thought could command support from a vast majority of Democrats and some Republicans.
But Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority whip, who had been seeking Republican votes for Mr. Clinton all Sunday night, said, "We are not going to rewrite a bill to suit Mr. Gephardt."
Mr. Clinton today tried minimize his differences with his fellow Democrats. "We have been having a debate in our party for several years on the question of trade and its role in our economic future," he said. But he noted that despite the defeat of his position in the House, "We clearly have a majority of the Democratic mayors and governors, and we had a majority in the Senate."
Mr. Clinton revived the drive for the fast track measure in his State of the Union address in January, but he then failed to introduce a bill until September.
Business groups who were on his side held back their support until they had seen the actual legislative language. And that gave a head start in the lobbying wars to organized labor, which ferociously opposed the measure and began running television commercials against it over the summer.
Republicans generally supported Mr. Clinton's free trade position, but the question demonstrated how sharply the Democratic Party is divided over the changes in the global economy.
Mr. Clinton has argued that Americans stand to gain from an economy dominated by high technology and an educated work force. He has repeatedly argued that a third of the 13.5 million new jobs that have been created during his Presidency are trade-related.
But many House Democrats contend that blue-collar workers are being forced into a "race to the bottom" by competing with developing countries without the labor laws and environmental protections of the United States.
Also hanging over the debate was the North American Free Trade Agreement of 1993, which Mr. Clinton pushed through Congress primarily with Republican votes. "Nafta did not turn out as good as it could have," Mr. Gephardt said today. "It did not turn out well for the American people."
On Sunday night, despite a weekend of frantic lobbying and deal-making by the White House and the muscle of Mr. Gingrich, the House was thought to be six to eight votes short of the majority needed to pass the trade bill. Mr. Gingrich said that on any usual piece of legislation he would have taken the gamble of holding the vote and seeing if any last holdouts came to his side.
But he said it was not prudent to roll the dice on trade legislation. "Putting the prestige of the President on the world stage and having people see defeat is a very high risk," he said.
Today Mr. Clinton attributed his defeat not just to rebel Democrats, who stood 80 percent against him, but to Republican conservatives who were holding back their votes unless the President would change his policy of allowing United States funds to go to international family planning organizations that counsel abortions.
"Had we been able to resolve that, I think we would have gotten enough votes on the Republican side to go with the Democrats' votes we had to pass the bill," Mr. Clinton said.
Republicans disagreed. They said that even if the family-planning issue had been settled on their terms, the trade measure would still have been defeated because of the President's inability to sway more Democrats. "There were better than four Republicans ready to vote yes for every Democrat ready to vote yes," Mr. DeLay said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a morning news conference at the White House, President Clinton, above, discussed his retreat over the trade bill. Earlier, at about 1 A.M., Representative Richard A Gephardt, below, had reason to smile as the Congressional camp opposed to the so-called fast-track legislation was holding its own. At left is Laura Nichols, his press secretary; at right, Erik Smith the deputy press secretary. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES ; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); POLITICS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: LOTT, TRENT (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) ; MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); TRENT LOTT (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



267 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Alcohol Taxes Favored To Help Poor, Study Says

DATELINE: PRINCETON

 BODY:
Most New Jerseyans would prefer an additional tax on alcohol and cigarettes to pay for health care for poor, uninsured patients at hospitals, according to a survey released yesterday.
Of 800 respondents, 76 percent supported raising taxes on cigarettes and 73 percent would raise taxes on alcohol, said Rick Sinding, executive director of New Jersey Health Decisions, a consumer group. 
 Nearly $300 million a year is taken from the State Unemployment Trust Fund to pay for charity care under a law that expires in December. Mr. Sinding said 30 percent of respondents favored that method, which replaced a surcharge on all patients' hospital bills.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; TAXATION; ALCOHOL; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; HEALTH INSURANCE TAX INCREASES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SMOKING (88%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (88%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



268 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: Public Housing Shows Its Age;
A Crisis of Advancing Repairs and Declining Money

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
In the 57 years since Mayor Fiorello La Guardia laid their cornerstone to the strains of a brass band, Vladeck Houses on the Lower East Side have embodied the promise of public housing.
Zigzagging gracefully through blocks once crowded with the Corlears Hook slums, they tell the neighborhood's immigrant story on every door buzzer: older Jewish and Italian tenants, joined through the years by Chinese, Puerto Rican and now Dominican familes, struggling to make a start. 
 But while the Vladeck Houses hold true to their mission, they have trouble holding out the rain.
Roofs are spiderwebbed with cracks. Football-sized chunks of concrete have crumbled from ceilings. Dozens of frustrated residents, like Paula Patterson, 77, have leaks they angrily compare to showers. "The ceiling gets patched up," she says, "and it falls right down again."
As the city's public housing system turns 62 this year, it is beginning to show its age. At least a dozen of the oldest housing projects -- more than 140 buildings around the city, containing nearly 10 percent of the system's 180,000 apartments -- suffer from serious structural problems, City Housing Authority officials say.
But as the authority moves to fix the problems, taking more apartments off rent rolls for major repairs than at any time in its history, it is confronting a crisis: Over the last three years, Congress has cut almost $100 million, or about a fourth, of the authority's annual budget for major capital repairs.
In a sense, New York City's public housing has become the victim of its own relative success.
Compared with most big-city public-housing systems, New York's housing projects have traditionally been considered remarkably stable -- in large part because they have had a high proportion of working people. And so, while other cities have found themselves forced to demolish failing high-rise complexes, New York's projects have endured.
But now, New York housing officials say the cuts in Federal aid, especially coming on top of similar sharp reductions in Federal money for day-to-day operations, threaten that distinction.
"We're faced with a situation where we have some very difficult choices to make," said Paul T. Graziano, the authority's general manager.
The cuts by Congress, which supplies almost all of the authority's money, were made by the Republican majority in response to years of demonstrated waste and fraud in many cities, and have stung every large housing authority in the country. In Los Angeles, two-year repair jobs have been stretched to five or more. In Cleveland, officials have left some older projects only half renovated, with waterlogged walls, cracked sewer pipes and some apartments vacant because they are unlivable. In several other cities, long-planned repairs have been postponed.
But housing experts say the New York system is in the worst straits, not only because of its size (it is the nation's largest public housing system, with 600,000 residents, more than the population of Seattle) but also because it is in one of the nation's most crowded and expensive cities.
Other authorities can save money by demolishing their oldest buildings -- most of them are only partly occupied anyway -- and replacing them with smaller projects spread over more land, but New York cannot. Its buildings are nearly full, it has little extra land to build on, and officials say that high construction costs mean that even multimillion-dollar repair projects are cheaper than tearing down and rebuilding in New York.
Compounding the cuts, the authority must dip into the diminished repair money to pay for two vast emergency projects: it recently had to conduct a $125 million effort to sandblast flammable paint from stairwells after flash fires killed two tenants, and it must embark on $250 million in renovations to make about 9,000 apartments accessible for the disabled.
The lost repair money could have paid for three or four huge, and sorely needed, rebuilding projects, officials said. Without it, they acknowledge, they have been forced to concentrate on projects in the most dire need, like Vladeck, where roofs are to be replaced beginning early next year, and the 59-year-old Williamsburg Houses in Brooklyn, where a $35 million overhaul is now under way.
Meanwhile, the city has deferred major work on other older projects, like the 60-year-old Harlem River Houses in East Harlem, which are a designated city landmark. More than 50 apartments there now sit vacant -- some have been empty for more than two years -- because of structural problems, as officials plan a long-awaited renovation project, now expected to begin next year.
The delays suspend tenants in a kind of infuriating limbo. "Pieces of paint and rocks kept falling down in my bed and on the couch and the tables," said Idena Banks, 51, a Harlem River tenant who moved out of her crumbling apartment two years ago to a lower floor. "They've been saying they were going to fix this place for I don't know how long."
Among other projects needing work, Marcy, Gowanus, Sumner and Sheepshead-Nostrand Houses in Brooklyn, and Wald Houses in lower Manhattan and Marble Hill Houses in the Bronx await major repairs for cracking concrete and bricks, a process known as spalling, officials say.
But at those and other older projects, an increasing amount of rebuilding money must be used for simply patching up ceilings, walls and aging plumbing, wiring and boilers until they can be replaced.
"When money gets tight, it is the capital improvement that gets deferred," said Nicholas Calace, an assistant deputy general manager, whose office speaks derisively of the triage maintenance jobs as "five-to-tens" -- a reference to how long the work will last.
"You've got to provide heat," said Mr. Calace. "You've got to provide elevator service. Bigger things have to wait."
The needs are made more dire because, for the last several years, the Federal Government has provided only about 85 percent of the money that the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Renewal estimates that housing authorities should have for day-to-day operations. Those cuts have forced many authorities to consider abandoning the very premise of public housing as a provider of last resort for the neediest.
Drawing sharp criticism from advocates for the poor, New York City has joined other authorities in considering turning over buildings to private managers and charging higher rents by increasing the number of working-class tenants, who can pay more. In the meantime, the authorities have trimmed their staffs, leaving maintenance and janitorial positions unfilled. (The New York authority is cutting its work force of 15,000 by at least 1,000 through attrition.)
Earlier this month, Congress passed an appropriations bill for the current fiscal year that provides the nation's housing authorities with the same amount of money it provided the previous year: $2.9 billion for operations and $2.5 billion for capital repairs and new construction. But housing officials complain that the appropriation is really a cut, because the price of labor and supplies continues to increase.
So authorities face a painful choice: Do they use all their scarce capital repair dollars to fix crumbling buildings? Or do they shift some of those dollars to make up for shortcomings in maintenance, so buildings need fewer capital dollars down the road?
Representative Rick A. Lazio of Long Island, a leading Republican in Washington on housing policy, said one reason for the cuts was that many authorities wasted the money they were given or did not use it at all. In Washington, for example, officials now say $180 million in unspent capital money piled up over more than six years.
"There has to be accountability," said Mr. Lazio, the sponsor of a measure to dismantle much of the Federal regulatory system for public housing. "We have to know that the money is being spent wisely."
The New York authority's managers, regarded as among the most effective in the country, contend that they have spent their money wisely and are being unfairly punished for others' mistakes. They warn that problems are growing.
At a time when 130,000 people are on waiting lists to get into public housing, slightly more than 1,600 apartments, out of the total of about 180,000, are not available to rent now because they are under repair or waiting to be repaired. And 3,480 more are not available because they are being rebuilt for the disabled. As recently as 1992, there were no units off the rent rolls, said Mr. Graziano, the general manager.
But the number will probably continue to rise for several years as reconstruction needs arise and projects take longer to start and complete.
In the Vladeck Houses -- where the five-year, $30 million reconstruction project will begin next year, and 33 families have been moved out of their apartments into other buildings -- engineers suspect that beach sand was used to mix some concrete. Salt and organic matter in the sand caused steel bars to rust, creating fissures in the roofs that let in rain.
In one building, the drizzle got so bad that workers recently resorted to hanging a tin slab beneath a hallway ceiling. Rain still pours in, but now it runs down the slab and back outside through a rubber hose dangling from a window. Gaspare DeGaetano, the authority's director of construction, surveyed the contraption on a recent tour of the project and, shaking his head, pronounced it "true Rube Goldberg."
"But it's what you have to do," he said, "until you can address the problem."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 1997, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with an article about structural problems in New York City public housing misstated the name of a project with crumbling masonry. It was the Williamsburg Houses, not the Red Hook Houses.

GRAPHIC: Photos: LEAKS IN THE CEILING -- Paula Patterson, 77, at Vladeck Houses, said the ceiling "falls right down again" after it is patched. FALLING PLASTER -- Exposed plumbing at the Williamsburg Houses in Brooklyn. STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS -- Masonry at Red Hook Houses, Brooklyn. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Dwindling Dollars" shows the amount of money Congress gave to New York City Housing Authority for capital repairs, for the 1993 to 1997 fiscal years, adjusted for inflation. (Source: New York City Housing Authority)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK SYSTEMS EXCHANGE CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FINANCES; PUBLIC HOUSING PUBLIC HOUSING (92%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); BUDGETS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



269 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: STANDOFF WITH IRAQ: THE OVERVIEW;
Iraqi Assails U.S. at the U.N. And Says Albright Is a Liar

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 10

 BODY:
Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz, sharply attacked the United States today as he pressed his country's case at the United Nations, calling Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright a liar. But Iraq failed to make good on its threat to shoot down American U-2 surveillance flights over Iraq as the flights resumed today.
In Washington, the United States sent its strongest signal yet that it may be preparing for military action in Iraq when Defense Secretary William S. Cohen and Gen. Henry H. Shelton, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, canceled trips to Asia that had been scheduled for this week. 
 For now, the United States was pursuing the course of diplomacy, and along with Britain called on the Security Council to impose new sanctions on Iraq. The actions are to retaliate for Iraq's threat to expel Americans serving on the international arms control team established to monitor Iraq's compliance with the 1991 cease-fire agreement that ended the Persian Gulf war.
Mr. Aziz continued to try to water down the existing sanctions today, presenting Secretary General Kofi Annan with a list of new demands that included taking part in any future Security Council debate on Iraq and substituting "neutral" aircraft for the U-2's.
Iraq's recent behavior has aroused such widespread outrage that diplomats here said they were optimistic that the new sanctions would be adopted as early as midweek, even though similar ones failed to win passage just three weeks ago.
The American representative here, Bill Richardson, said the draft resolution had four parts: a condemnation of President Saddam Hussein's Government for its recent challenges to the United Nations inspection system; a demand for full cooperation in the future; a ban on international travel by high Iraqi officials, and an unspecified threat of further actions if problems continue.
"If there's no Iraqi compliance, all bets are go, all options are open," Mr. Richardson said.
He called the draft proposal "a strong resolution with teeth that would send an unmistakable message to Iraq."
The crisis with Iraq began on Oct. 29, when Iraqi officials said they would expel Americans on the arms-inspection team, and threatened to shoot down American U-2's. They acted after signs that the consensus to continue sanctions on Iraq was fraying. But their actions appeared to have stiffened the resolve at the United Nations, and Mr. Aziz met a cool reception here today in his meetings with the Secretary General and other diplomats.
Mr. Aziz criticized Ms. Albright in a news conference today outside the Security Council. On Sunday Ms. Albright, appearing on a television news program, called President Hussein a "congenital liar."
Asked about Ms. Albright's statement, Mr. Aziz said, "Those who accuse the others of being liars, they are liars."
A reporter then asked, "So Madeleine Albright is herself a liar?" Mr. Aziz replied, "I hoped she wouldn't be, but unfortunately she is."
Mr. Richardson said later that he was personally offended by the insult to the Secretary of State.
During Mr. Aziz's meeting with Mr. Annan, the Iraqi argued that there were too many Americans on the arms-inspection teams and that the U-2 surveillance planes used to back the disarmament commission in Iraq were working for Washington, not the United Nations. The Security Council has not decided whether to give Mr. Aziz a hearing.
"He did not give me the answer I had hoped for in Baghdad," Mr. Annan said later at a news conference, flanked by three high-level envoys he sent to Iraq last week. "He hasn't given it to me yet."
In a reply to the Secretary General, the Iraqis included with a letter a list of demands for changes in the way sanctions are applied and reviewed by the Security Council. The demands include the appointment of an international team of experts to judge whether Iraq is in substantial compliance with the arms-destruction program, and if not, a statement of what needs to be done, while sanctions are gradually dismantled.
In addition to reducing the role of Americans and having the U-2's replaced by "neutral" aircraft, Baghdad wants to put off limits to inspectors any sites deemed important to national security. Inspectors had begun to conclude that important information and perhaps weapons stocks they seek are under the control of Mr. Hussein's Republican Guards.
Mr. Annan had asked Mr. Hussein to revoke his decision ordering Americans working on the inspection commission out of the country.
In Baghdad today, the Government made a show of moving families with babies and small children into Mr. Hussein's lavish palaces to act as human shields for their leader against American attacks. United Nations officials say the Iraqi President, driven by fears about enemies from within and without, sleeps in a different bed almost every night. Iraqis told arms inspectors that sophisticated poison-detection kits found by the United Nations were used to test his food.
Mr. Aziz is finding that foreign governments and United Nations officials are not cutting him much slack now. Mr. Hussein's action against Americans in Iraq has cost him sympathy, if only temporarily. Today Mr. Aziz stopped short of new threats to the United States or the United Nations, and seemed resigned to the presence of Americans in Iraq if their numbers were reduced.
On his way to New York, the Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister met in Paris today with Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine of France. After that meeting, the Foreign Ministry issued a statement saying France had told Mr. Aziz that Iraq's threats to Americans were "in violation of Security Council resolutions, as are any action that are liable to hinder the activities of the Special Commission."
Mr. Aziz met here with Sergei Lavrov, the Russian representative, and envoys from the nonaligned movement, as well as with Qin Huasun, China's representative and this month's Security Council president.
"We are ready to fulfill all our obligations," Mr. Aziz said after his meeting with Mr. Qin. "We have no intention to enter into a conflict with the Security Council or the Special Commission. It is in the best interests of Iraq to finish this job." But he also repeated Iraqi demands that a timetable be established for the end of sanctions, which Washington says is out of the question.
The Security Council also heard reports today from Mr. Annan and the envoys he sent to Baghdad last week -- Lakhdar Brahimi of Algeria, Emilio Cardenas of Argentina and Jan Eliasson of Sweden -- as well as Richard Butler, the executive chairman of the inspection commission.
Mr. Cardenas, a banker and former Argentine representative at the United Nations, said in an interview today that he had come away from the trip to Baghdad with the sense that the Iraqis, because of their extreme isolation. had unrealistic expectations of what they could get away with. The country has been under blanket sanctions since its invasion of Kuwait in 1990 and cannot hope to have them lifted until certified to be free of weapons of mass destruction.
The Argentine envoy also said that with "government by terror" in Iraq, there were few voices speaking out for alternative policies.
But Mr. Cardenas, who as a Security Council member negotiated with Iraq more than a year ago to establish the plan for limited oil sales to pay for food and medicine, said he was stunned by the real suffering he saw in Baghdad. He said that the country seemed to be "in the doldrums" and that even in well-off sections of the capital electricity was in short supply, water was unsafe and unreliable and sanitation standards were very low.
"People are thinking daily about their fight for survival," he said. He believes that when the crisis is over, the Security Council should look again at how to alleviate the hardships of average Iraqis, perhaps by adjusting the "oil for food" agreement to allow some public services to be repaired.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 1997, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday about the United Nations visit of Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz, misstated the timing and circumstances of the scene shown. Mr. Aziz was leaving the Security Council after talking with its president, Qin Huasun of China; a meeting with Secretary General Kofi Annan took place earlier in the day.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hundreds of supporters of Iraq demonstrated in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank yesterday against American policy. One demonstration in Hebron included Palestinian students and other supporters of Hamas. (Agence France-Presse); Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz of Iraq, front left, arriving for his meeting yesterday with the United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, who said the Iraqi had not given him "the answer I had hoped for." (Dan Hogan for The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (79%); ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (59%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); HAMAS (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); HAMAS (59%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ ; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (79%); ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (59%); WASHINGTON, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); DESERT STORM (79%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (54%); 

PERSON: ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); CROSSETTE, BARBARA; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); AZIZ, TARIQ (DEPUTY PRIME MIN); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); RICHARDSON, BILL (AMB) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); BILL RICHARDSON (89%); JAMES D SHELTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



270 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 11, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Post Plans a Printing Plant For the Bronx or Jersey City

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The New York Post is negotiating with New York State officials to lease a site in an unused rail yard in the South Bronx for a $150 million printing plant, while simultaneously considering an alternative location in Jersey City.
The company is trying to secure a 17-acre tract that straddles the Harlem River yard and an adjacent parcel that has a bus terminal. The Post is also negotiating for tax breaks for the plant. The company is also meeting officials in Jersey City about tax incentives at two potential sites near Liberty State Park, including one that has a printing plant for The Daily News. 
 The Post prints the paper in the former Journal-American building on South Street, near the Brooklyn Bridge, that William Randolph Hearst built in 1926. The company has said it wants to be in a new plant by early 1999 and is buying four-color presses.
Martin Singerman, president and publisher of The Post, owned by News America Publishing, confirmed that the company was negotiating with the two states. But, he said, The Post has told New York officials that it wants to remain in the city.
"We told them upfront we would do everything possible to stay in New York City," Mr. Singerman said. "But we have to hedge our bets and make sure we're protected, since there's only one site available in New York City. If this doesn't work out, we would probably find ourselves going to New Jersey."
Last year, the city gave News America a $20.7 million package of sales-tax exemptions and low electricity rates for its headquarters at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, at 47th Street, after it had threatened to move some employees out of the city.
News America had transferred 400 employees to the midtown building from South Street a year earlier.
Both The New York Times and The Daily News have been given tax breaks when building new plants. In 1993, The Daily News announced that it would move its printing operations from Brooklyn to Jersey City, after New Jersey had given the paper $35 million in cash and tens of millions of dollars in tax breaks. The New York Times received a $29 million tax package in 1992 for a new printing plant in College Point, Queens.
The State Economic Development Commissioner, Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, who has met executives from The Post, said he had been unaware of the News America tax break last year. He added that he was optimistic that the state would be able to offer an attractive plan for the printing plant.
The Post has been searching for a location off and on since 1994, when it announced that it would buy new presses. On several occasions, The Post returned to the dormant 96-acre rail yard, which is operated by the Galesi Group, a developer, under a long-term lease from the state. The location is close to highways and has a rail spur, which could be used to deliver newsprint. "The question is whether we can get the site at the appropriate time," said David W. Levinson, a broker at Insignia/Edward S. Gordon, which represents The Post. "We're getting a significant amount of cooperation."
The talks are complicated by The Post's attempt to lease a nine-acre area with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority bus garage that is not scheduled to close for several years. The site also sits next to a proposed $440 million paper mill that would transform waste paper from trash into rolls of newsprint.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 17, 1997, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 11 about The New York Post's plan for a new printing plant referred incorrectly to incentives offered to The Daily News in 1993 to move to Jersey City. Though the amount was widely reported at the time to be $35 million, The News calls that figure exaggerated. Its grants and loans totaled at least $15 million, along with other incentives.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The New York Post is considering an unused rail yard in the South Bronx to build a printing plant. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 
Map of the Bronx showing the proposed location of the new plant: The 17-acre tract is close to highways and a rail spur. (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK POST NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (62%); NEWS AMERICA PUBLISHING INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK POST

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; JERSEY CITY (NJ); ; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLISHING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SALES TAX (71%); STATE PARKS (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); UTILITY RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1997



271 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
The Demo-Labor Party

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The "new" Democrats have been routed by the old. The Democratic Party is now America's Labor Party. Richard Gephardt has replaced Al Gore as front-runner for the Democratic nomination in 2000.
Surely the man in the White House will have his successes, and his chosen successor's name recognition will maintain Gore poll ratings. But the chickens of triangulation are coming home to roost. 
 What a spectacle: the Oval Office arm-twister himself, and all the President's men, were unable to get more than one in four House Democrats to give him "fast track" authority to negotiate trade deals without Congressional amendment. Symbolically, the left wing of the House, behind minority leader Gephardt, rose up and declared its abhorrence of the middle of the road.
John Sweeney, boss of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., made it happen. He proved he had the money, the troops and the clout within the Democratic Party to call the shots. One tactical Clinton blunder was to blurt out the truth about Sweeney's domination. "I wish we could have a secret vote in the Congress -- we'd pass it 3 or 4 to 1" -- was rightly taken by insulted House Democrats to mean their votes were sold for union money or cast in fear of union punishment.
Another Clinton blunder was to become the first President to let his all-or-nothing trading power lapse, delaying the vote last year lest it conflict with his No. 1 Priority: getting re-elected. He subordinated all other considerations, from honest fund-raising to global economic leadership, to his personal political interest.
Now we come to the strategic blunder. Much has been made of Clinton's political brilliance in responding to the 1994 debacle by moving to the center, adopting the G.O.P.'s balanced-budget goal, stealing the opposition's clothing by putting trade ahead of human rights.
But to what end? Clinton in the first year of his second term is like Bush in the last year of his only term: an exhausted volcano. The Comeback Kid, having left his political home, has no place to come back to.
By straddling the fence; by being liberal on affirmative action while taking conservative positions on crime; by escalating class war while abandoning New Deal entitlements; by enshrining deficit reduction while ducking on Medicare and Social Security reform; by rattling the saber at Saddam while neglecting our missile defenses -- our most pro-choice President has stripped Americans of our choice of directions.
Centrism is fine when it is the result of competing interests. Thesis; antithesis; synthesis. But centrism is vapid when it is the suffocator of interests, seeking to please rather than striving to move. Clinton's approach, in most cases, has been to follow the primrose path of polling down the middle: his motto has become a firm "there must be no compromise with compromise."
That's why we right-wingers, though saddened by this setback to free trade, welcome the emergence of the Demo-Labor Party. It has an identity, even a soul; it knows where it stands and is willing to take that principled stand; and it is a loser.
Demo-Labor is a loser, that is, in national elections that offer choices on the economics of redistribution, or the politics of central control, or the folly of multilateralism.
But Demo-Labor can be a winner in primary elections in the party of the left. It has the money and the bodies, while Bill Clinton's self-absorption has bankrupted the party and decimated its roster of elected officials. (In terms of electoral results in Congress and statehouses, Clinton is the best Democratic President the Republicans have ever had.)
What's next? Having established his dominance, Sweeney will go underground. Having shown Clinton his impotence, Democrats in Congress -- especially Gephardt -- will now feed the duck limping around the White House with great deference.
That will be a charade, of course; the power has passed. The coattail-free President with the non-transferable popularity has been outbid, and his displeasure no longer strikes fear in the Democratic ranks.
Sweeney's Demo-Labor task now is to attract urbanists, greens, minorities and especially women; to secure bedfellowship with Perot-Buchananites, and to find an attractive lefty who can play the centrist without actually selling out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 POLITICAL PARTIES (97%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); BUDGETS (73%); FUNDRAISING (70%); CONSERVATISM (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



272 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rallies Again vs. Yen On Weak Outlook for Japan

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The dollar rose to its third consecutive six-month high against the Japanese yen yesterday on expectations that officials in the United States and Japan will let the yen weaken further as Japan's economy shows more signs of faltering.
The conspicuous silence from both countries about the dollar's strength contrasted sharply with the situation earlier this year, when officials in Japan complained as the dollar rose above 120 yen, prompting traders to sell dollars. 
 "Now, they're likely to say let's lay off or they're going to fall into a full-fledged depression," said David Moline, a currency trader at Norwest Bank in Minneapolis. "Japan has to let the yen devalue to compete" with other exporters, he said.
The dollar settled at 125.03 yen in New York, up from 124.40 late Monday, to reach its highest level since May 7. The dollar was unchanged at 1.7077 German marks.
The British pound rose to its highest level of the year against the dollar, in part because of increased demand after Britain's Government reported that inflation exceeded its targets last month. The report suggested that the Bank of England, which has raised interest rates five times since May, could raise them again. Higher rates tend to increase demand for a currency.
In late New York trading, the pound was quoted at $1.7044, up from $1.6961 late Monday. The pound is now at its strongest since Jan. 2.
Trading was thin yesterday because of the Veterans Day holiday in the United States and Armistice Day in some European countries.
The dollar could rise as high as 130 yen in coming weeks, surpassing the 127.50 yen reached on May 1, which was its highest in four and a half years, said Alan Kabbani, senior currency trader at the First Union Corporation in Charlotte, N.C.
A weak yen can help Japan by reducing the price of exports, one of the few strengths in an economy struggling with slow growth, falling stocks and a debt-heavy banking system.
The yen also suffered after Taku Yamasaki, head of the Policy Affairs Research Council of the governing Liberal Democratic Party, said the Economic Planning Agency would acknowledge on Friday that the economy was stagnating. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); DEVALUATION (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); TRENDS (75%); BRITISH POUND (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); EXPORT PRICES (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



273 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Small Grants Help Poor To Start Own Businesses

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO 

 BODY:
Mildred Robbins Leet and Glenn Leet could easily be gardening and socializing their way through their golden years. There are apple and cherry trees to tend on their wraparound terrace overlooking the Upper West Side and friends and associates, cultivated during two lifetimes of public service, to keep up with.
But the Leets have more pressing concerns. There's world poverty, for one. So at ages 75 and 89, respectively, Mrs. Leet and her husband are still fighting the battle, one they began 18 years ago with the founding of the Trickle Up Program, a nonprofit organization that gives modest amounts of seed money to poor people to start businesses. 
 The idea is simple: to elicit the entrepreneurial spirit, one person at a time. And all those seeds have sprouted into something quite significant. Since 1979, Trickle Up has helped create 65,000 small businesses, mostly based at home and mostly started by women.
"People all have potential," said Mrs. Leet. "The question is how are you going to reach them."
Mr. Leet added, "Many of the great American fortunes began very, very small."
As did their organization. In fact, it started with only $1,000 of the Leets's own money, a few computers on the couple's dining room table and a part-time secretary.
This summer, Trickle Up moved into offices at 121 West 27th Street, and this year its 14 full-time staff members plan to give away $1 million in 115 countries.
That is all the more remarkable because the program does not give the money in $100,000 clumps like venture capital companies, but in amounts more akin to passbook savings accounts: entrepreneurs in the United States can get a maximum of $700; overseas, they get $100.
Of course, $700 goes only so far, but Trickle Up says it is enough money to get a small business going. A group of women in Nepal used the money to parlay their skills in doll-making into a business that caters to tourists. A man in Maine began a business selling lacquered walking sticks that he makes out of the trunks of discarded Christmas trees.
"It's a first step toward getting them on their feet," said Daniel Delehanty, the organization's deputy director for development education and special projects. "We want people to develop a track record so they can go on to get a loan from a community development center or a small loan from a bank."
Trickle Up relies on a worldwide network of community development organizations, churches and women's groups to help identify promising candidates for its start-up grants. In foreign countries, where Trickle Up has operated since its inception, entrepreneurs receive $50 upon acceptance of a basic business plan and $50 a few months later as long as the recipient has saved 20 percent of any profits.
In the United States, where Trickle Up began fostering entrepreneurship only three years ago, the initial grant is $500, and the $200 balance comes soon after. The difference in the grant amount between the United States and overseas reflects the higher cost of living in this country.
The organization, which receives money from individuals, foundations, corporations and governments, recently helped start its 400th business in the United States, committing grant money to a woman in the South Bronx who wants to buy a computer to start a word processing business. Three-quarters of its business start-ups in the United States have occurred, in fact, in New York City.
There is, for instance, Maria Miranda of Queens, who last year discovered her life's passion after she made her first hat. With the installment of $500 from Trickle Up, she bought fabric and trim and paid her electric bill.
She has since sold 1,000 hats. She was just approved for an $8,000 loan from the Women's Venture Fund, a nonprofit group in Manhattan that helps women in business.
The Leets met through their involvement in international development in 1973. He was president of Save the Children Federation and had been the first chief of the Community Development unit of the United Nations. She was a member of the International Peace Academy and a past president of the National Council of Women. "We kept hearing the same words over and over again," Mrs. Leet recalled. "It was, 'How do you reach the poorest of the poor?' and 'How do you encourage the participation of the people?' "
In the United States, sorting out who is truly on the economic margins and who is not can be a challenge. "When you work in developing countries, it's so much easier," Mr. Delehanty said, "because basically everybody is really poor."
Trickle Up recently prepared economic guidelines for American candidates -- conditions that would make banks beat a retreat. Household incomes should be less than 175 percent of the federally set poverty level. Recipients typically have either a tarnished credit history or none at all. And a history of being on welfare is a plus.
"Most small businesses in this country are started with help from friends and family," Mr. Delehanty said. "When you're talking about people who don't have friends and family with money, it's very difficult."
The organization's studies show that about 80 percent of the businesses it has helped are still going after one year.
Leaders in international development praise Trickle Up for its emphasis on economic issues at the grass-roots level.
"People recognize the importance of health and education, but too often there's not enough focus on livelihoods," said James Gustave Speth, administrator of the United Nations Development Program, which has contributed to the organization. "Trickle Up has worked with the poorest of the poor and has focused on this issue."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Miranda, right (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times), began a hat-making business last year with a $500 grant from the Trickle Up Program, which was started by Mildred Robbins Leet and Glenn Leet, left. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times); Ms. Miranda has since sold 1,000 hats and been approved for an $8,000 loan from a group that helps women in business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NEPAL (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TRICKLE UP PROGRAM TRICKLE UP PROGRAM (91%); TRICKLE UP PROGRAM (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRICKLE UP PROGRAM TRICKLE UP PROGRAM (91%); TRICKLE UP PROGRAM (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEPAL (67%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SMALL BUSINESS SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); WOMEN (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (83%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); BUSINESS PLANS (74%); CHRISTMAS (73%); 

PERSON: LEET, MILDRED ROBBINS; LEET, GLENN; FODERARO, LISA W

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



274 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Stocks End Mixed in Moderate Trading as the Dow Rises 6.14

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
Despite overnight gains amongAsian markets, broad equity indexes in the United States ended mixed yesterday, as stocks meandered for a second consecutive session characterized by moderate trading volume.
Indeed, even though markets in Japan and Hong Kong firmed and South Korea's sustained only minimal losses earlier in the day, the United States market failed to retain most of the gains it made at the start of its session. 
 With the bond market closed in observance of Veterans Day, stocks also lacked a barometer on interest-rate trends.
Caterpillar was a victim of the market's malaise. Shares of the company, a maker of heavy equipment, fell 2, or nearly 4 percent, to 48 3/16 on concern that events in Asia and Latin America create uncertainty about the company's overseas business. In addition, President Clinton's failure to win expedited trade negotiating authority may have hurt the stock, analysts said.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 7,558.73, up 6.14 points, after trading up as much as 47.15 points. Shares of large multinational companies like DuPont, Procter & Gamble, Johnson & Johnson and Coca-Cola led the advance.
Despite its positive finish, the average of 30 blue-chip stocks was undermined not only by Caterpillar but negative financial news from Eastman Kodak and General Motors as well.
Among broader market gauges, Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks gained 2.65 points, to 923.78. The Nasdaq composite index, heavily weighted with technology stocks, fell 5.86 points, to 1,584.86.
Declining issues outpaced advancers, 1,486 to 1,336, on the New York Stock Exchange.
"The downward bias is not a great sign," said Alan Bond, chief investment officer at Bond Procope Capital Management in New York. "With the improvement in Asia, it's not quite as firm as I would have liked to see."
In fact, the stock market's inability to strengthen more on such a light trading day could portend further declines, said Jim Benning, a vice president at Bankers Trust New York.
"I think people are just concerned that the problems in Southeast Asia are spreading slowly," Mr. Benning said. "At the moment, the U.S. economy looks fine, but that could change. And stocks were up so high. Prices were based on a rosy scenario till the end of time and that's not realistic."
Traders and analysts said that the market was largely unconcerned about today's meeting by the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee because an interest-rate increase is seen as unlikely.
In addition, little new information is expected to be disclosed tomorrow when the Fed's chairman, Alan Greenspan, and Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers are scheduled to testify before Congress about Asia's financial turmoil and its impact on the United States economy.
Shares of MCI Communications and Worldcom were the two most actively traded issues yesterday following Monday's announcement that the two companies would merge in a deal valued at $36.5 billion.
But questions about the merger -- including those about the stringent regulatory scrutiny it is expected to draw and worries that Worldcom's growth could slow as it raises its debt burden to finance the deal -- weighed on the stocks.
Worldcom closed at 30 1/4, off 11/16, with nearly 23.5 million shares traded. MCI closed unchanged at 41 1/2, on 19.8 million shares traded, after gaining more than 4 on Monday.
Kansas City Power and Light shares fell 1 1/4, to 27 13/16 on concern that Western Resources might renegotiate its agreement to buy the utility for about $2.7 billion in stock and assumed debt. Western Resources shares rose 1 5/16, to 37 11/16.
 
ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (68%); KO (NYSE) (55%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (68%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); HONG KONG (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (68%); COCA-COLA CO (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); HONG KONG (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TRENDS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R BILL CLINTON (56%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (53%); ALAN GREENSPAN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



275 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Further Restraint Is Sought For Improvement Districts

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY 

 BODY:
Seeking to curb the growing influence of business improvement districts, the City Council leadership is releasing a package of proposals today that would make it harder to create and maintain the self-taxing districts and would also more closely regulate them.
The proposed rules would be the first major constraints on the districts -- widely credited for improving the quality of life throughout the city -- since the Council authorized them 15 years ago. They would also force the 39 districts, which often have broad management discretion, to open up their management practices and more actively involve property owners within their boundaries. 
 In a report scheduled to be released today, the Council found that many property owners felt poorly informed about district operations and that some complained about managerial abuses. Still others said they felt their districts were unnecessary, thus subjecting them to an unfair tax. Under a BID, property owners must pay a special tax that the city collects and the business district then uses to improve the area.
Property owners in the Grand Central district, for example, contended that the district's leaders carefully orchestrated a vote to kill plans by property owners to institute spending guidelines. They also contend that the leaders unilaterally dropped one of the area's largest property owners from the district's board because he opposed some of their practices. The report concluded that the district's leaders went to great lengths "to obtain unfettered control and power within the BID."
"After closely reviewing BID's and their operations, everything points to the fact that there are abuses and potential abuses that have to be rectified," said Herbert E. Berman, chairman of the Council's Finance Committee, which produced the report. "And as long as they have the imprimatur of government, they should be required to adhere to certain standards."
The Finance Committee now must draft bills to enact the proposals, which have the backing of Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone and therefore are likely to be approved by the full Council.
The report highlights a tension that has existed since the BID's were first authorized. While the special districts have been praised for using their tax dollars to pick up garbage, hire security guards and otherwise supplement city services, questions have been raised by property owners and others about whether the districts have become mini-governments that operate with too little oversight.
The districts' leaders, who have not seen the Council's report, would not comment in detail when told about the proposals. But they have long warned against overregulation, saying too much municipal bureaucracy would make it difficult for them to operate efficiently.
Rudy Washington, Deputy Mayor for Community Development and Business Services, said the Giuliani administration would review the proposals. He noted that the administration had already instituted some limits on the districts, including a decision last year to restrict the districts' ability to sell bonds to finance multimillion dollar projects.
"This administration supports BID's 100 percent because they've made major improvements to the city," he said. "But we also realize that, like anything else, there needs to be checks and balances."
While many of the Council's proposals can be enacted through changes in local law, some would require the approval of the State Legislature because the districts were created under state laws governing special assessment districts.
Sheldon Silver, Speaker of the State Assembly, said he was open to the Council's proposals. "We'd be delighted to look at anything that they think addresses the problems and concerns in the city," he said.
Gretchen Dykstra, president of the Times Square Business Improvement District, noted that the association last year issued a Code of Professional Standards and Practices. "It was an attempt by the BID's to come up with best practices and guidelines for BID managers," she said.
The Council report acknowledges that the association's code was intended to "insure full disclosure, accountability, democratic representation and power sharing within all of the city's BID's," but suggests that the code is largely ignored by some district managers. One of the Council's proposals would require each district to adhere to the code in order to be certified by the city's Department of Business Services.
A number of the proposals are intended to correct problems the Council encountered at the Grand Central Partnership, one of the city's largest districts. Many complaints were directed at the partnership's president, Daniel Biederman, who also runs the 34th Street and Bryant Park BID's and draws salaries from the three BID's totaling nearly $400,000. The Council would like to prohibit Mr. Biederman and anyone else from managing more than one BID. Dan Pisark, a spokesman for the partnership, said Mr. Biederman and other district leaders would have no comment until they had reviewed the report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL MARKETS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (89%); TRENDS (78%); MAYORS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); APPROVALS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: TOY, VIVIAN S JOHN MAJOR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



276 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: THE TRADE BILL: POLITICS;
Gephardt, Long on Sideline, Scores a Touchdown at Last

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11

 BODY:
For years, Richard A. Gephardt, the Democratic leader in the House, has fought the lonely battle. He has opposed major trade bills, the balanced-budget agreement and changes in welfare, popular initiatives that united the Republican-led Congress and the Democratic President, split House Democrats and left Mr. Gephardt a minority within the minority.
Now, in a stunning turn of events, this once and future Presidential candidate suddenly finds himself in the winner's circle. His victory has brought humiliating defeat to the President of his own party and was achieved largely by standing still, with the minority leader simply holding to a longtime position and allowing Administration blunders and other events to move the issue his way. 
 President Clinton's retreat on "fast track" trade authority marked Mr. Gephardt's most successful rebellion in a string of recent splits with the Administration that have helped the 56-year-old Missourian define himself as an economic liberal and carve out his own identity for the Presidential contest in 2000.
With Vice President Al Gore carrying the flag for the Administration in favor of the fast-track bill, the maneuverings over the last week had all the markings of the opening round of the Democratic Presidential primaries. Mr. Gephardt's stance reinforced the view that he intends to make himself the undisputed alternative on the left to Mr. Gore, by building support among labor and environmentalists.
The question now is whether Mr. Gephardt can capitalize on his success by articulating a new message on trade based on worker rights and saving the environment, or whether he simply fostered an image as a captive of big labor who speaks only for other House Democrats increasingly dependent on union cash for re-election.
Representative Paul McHale, from the industrial Lehigh Valley of Pennsylvania, was one of more than 160 House Democrats who sided with Mr. Gephardt on the fast-track bill. But he has reservations about the long-term viability of Mr. Gephardt's position.
"Dick's view may appeal to a limited constituency within our party," Mr. McHale said. "But for a candidate to become identified with the defeatist principles of protectionism rather than optimistic engagement is not only bad economic policy, it's misguided politics."
Yet, other Democrats, as well as Republicans, say Mr. Gephardt is now in a position to capture the important organizational support -- and dollars -- of union labor, which has backed Mr. Gore until now but worked hard to defeat the trade bill.
And several Democrats say Mr. Gephardt scored points with them by his posture.
"Dick Gephardt's stock has risen tremendously," said Representative Bill Pascrell Jr., a first-term Democrat from New Jersey who is a strong supporter of organized labor. "Gore came into my district to campaign for me, but having seen how the Administration operated on this issue, I have some serious questions. Gephardt is a bridge-builder; Gore is caught up in 21st-century macroeconomics."
The effects of trade on American workers have long been Mr. Gephardt's signature issue. Indeed, his advocacy of retaliation against countries like Japan that ran up huge trade surpluses with the United States was the cornerstone of his failed Presidential campaign in 1988.
His aides acknowledge that his message -- essentially, that workers of the world should unite -- is premised on a downturn in the economy and seems inherently pessimistic. ("People are insecure," he says.) But they insist that by the 1998 House elections, his midnight-in-America posture will reflect a prevailing Democratic view and will help the party recapture the House.
Whatever his ability to build on his success, in the trade fight Mr. Gephardt's position mirrored a widespread disaffection of House liberals who believe that Mr. Clinton has deserted them on the entire agenda of reducing income disparity in America.
One House Democratic leader, Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, said that a "robber-baron capitalist" mentality had prevailed since the Republicans won control of Congress three years ago and that Mr. Clinton, perceiving that he had no choice but to work with the Republicans, had bought into it.
The fast-track bill, Mr. Obey said, was "a further walking away from the traditional values of the Democratic Party."
Unlike the White House, which garnered promises of some votes only by promising rewards in return, Mr. Gephardt had few sweeteners to offer.
"We don't have the assets that the White House has," one aide said ruefully.
Instead, his success seemed largely a result of factors beyond his control: widespread unhappiness in the House over the effects of the North American Free Trade Agreement, and uncharacteristic political blunders by the Clinton Administration. These included the President's accusation that Democrats who did not support the bill were in the pocket of union bosses, and a White House fire-sale atmosphere suggesting that the Administration would barter away almost anything for a vote favoring the legislation.
This gave Mr. Gephardt the chance to claim the moral high ground.
"Please, Mr. President," he implored over the weekend, "don't trade Democratic values for Republican votes."
Throughout the hours and days of negotiations before Republican leaders canceled the House vote at 2 o'clock on Monday morning, Democrats, labor allies and environmentalists dropped in at Mr. Gephardt's office to report the latest news, and wavering lawmakers came by for earnest discussions about the bill.
Each bit of news that he received about the struggle was conveyed to him by other House Democrats or by reporters. He had no communication with the White House, and Mr. Clinton never called him when the battle was over.
Now his successful opposition to the measure can only chill his already icy relations with the Administration. And the words that he spoke in January 1995, after Mr. Clinton had been blamed for the Democrats' losing control of the House for the first time in 40 years, seem ever more true.
"House Democrats," Mr. Gephardt said then, "are an independent organization."

GRAPHIC: Photo: If there was any big political winner in the "fast track" outcome, surely it was Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (86%); LEGISLATION (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (79%); BILL PASCRELL JR (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



277 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: El Paso Journal;
Clothes Sold by Pound Attract Mexican Buyers

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: EL PASO

 BODY:
Carmen Hernandez rummaged carefully through the racks at Ropa por Libra, the downtown El Paso store she has visited two or three times a week, nearly every week, for the past 20 years.
The 73-year-old Mrs. Hernandez, who is from the neighboring Mexican city of Ciudad Juarez, studied a children's shirt carefully, inspected and rejected a blouse, then took a pair of men's trousers and finding no stains or rips whatsoever, nodded her head in satisfaction. A few moments later, she took a small bundle of clothing and tossed it onto a scale at the counter. At $6.99 a pound for a little more than two pounds, her total bill, for six items, was $15.22. 
 So goes a typical transaction at Ropa por Libra -- which means clothing by the pound -- an El Paso institution that has counterparts in cities all along the 2,000-mile United States-Mexico border and that offers a window on a quirky area of trade between the two nations.
Taken together, what is sold in these stores are estimated to be one of this nation's biggest exports -- in volume, if not in dollars -- to its southern neighbor: used and discarded clothing.
Many of the clothes are used items plucked, for pennies, from the storehouses of charitable groups, while others have been bought new at greatly discounted prices from manufacturers and retailers, either because they had imperfections or because the whole line of clothing had been discontinued.
"People know they can get incredible bargains here," said Ed Garcia, the irrepressible manager at Ropa por Libra. He has been involved in the family-owned business for nearly all of his 49 years.
"You take this beautiful skirt right here," he said, placing a red pleated skirt with a label that said "American Fashion Woman/Made in U.S.A." on a scale that seemed identical to those used to weigh produce at a grocery store. "That'll be .49 pound, at $6.99 a pound," he continued, reaching for a calculator and punching in the numbers. "Call it $3.43. "I'm telling you, you go to buy that in New York or Boston, that's going to cost you $60."
As he spoke, customers browsed through the three levels of the store, which is adorned with photographs of Barbra Streisand, Frank Sinatra, Katharine Hepburn and nearly all the American Presidents, as well as huge Spanish lettering offering items like camisas (shirts), pantalones (pants) and chaquetas (jackets).
However they got here, the clothes wind up in stores and warehouses in border cities from the Gulf of Mexico to the Pacific Ocean, and they are often bought by Mexican customers like Mrs. Hernandez, who said she planned to cross back over the Rio Grande, wash and iron the clothes she bought, and sell them in the open markets of Juarez. She hoped to make a profit of as much as 50 cents on each sale; with the proceeds, she would be back at Ropa por Libra in a few days.
The trade, in many ways, illustrates the economic disparities in the two nations. The clothes may be considered rejects in the United States, but not at all in Mexico.
"There are some beautiful clothes here that the Americans don't seem to want," said another customer from Juarez, Alicia Medina, 68, who was browsing in Ropa por Libra's "Bargain Basement," in which all items cost $1 or less. "I love shopping for my grandchildren here, just looking all around."
The booming trade in ropa usada, or used clothing, is not without some controversy in Mexico, where the authorities have become increasingly concerned about bulk sales of the clothes at American stores. The customers pay American sales taxes but bring the goods into Mexico and re-sell them in open markets. Under that system, Mexico rarely collects any customs duties or taxes on the goods, and officials have vowed to crack down on those engaged in high-volume sales of used clothing.
Still, even among the Mexican authorities, there are different interpretations of regulations on the trade. The head of the customs office in Matamoros, across the Rio Grande from Brownsville, Tex., said that bringing used clothing bought outside the country into Mexico is "completely forbidden," while a spokeswoman at the customs office of the Mexican Embassy in Washington, said that "a reasonable amount according with the duration of your trip" was acceptable for import.
In any event, Mexican officials admitted that it would be extremely difficult to sort a person's own clothing from recent purchases outside the country. Their real target is the large importers. The trade continues unabated for those involved in selling used clothes on a small scale, such as some customers of Ropa por Libra.
If the store was busy here recently, a few blocks away the atmosphere was frenetic at its warehouse store on Paisano Drive, "La Bola de Oro," which means the ball of gold, a few hundred feet from the border. There the customers, almost all of them Mexican citizens, typically pool their resources to buy 35-pound bundles at $1.50 to $1.79 per pound.
But unlike Ropa por Libra, where customers select the clothing, those who come to La Bola de Oro buy the bundles, many of which are trucked directly from New York and Los Angeles, without knowing exactly what's rolled up inside.
"You never know what you'll get when you buy a bundle," Mr. Garcia said. "But there are always things in there that really are gold -- they can wind up being big sellers in Mexico -- and others that won't be. So the idea is, it all comes out in the wash."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mexican citizens buy used or imperfect clothing by the pound in the El Paso store Ropa por Libra and re-sell it at home. Mexico is cracking down on bulk traders in such goods who evade tariffs at the border. (Bruce Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (65%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (50%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; EL PASO (TEX); MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); TEXAS, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (65%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (50%); EL PASO, TX, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL RETAILERS (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (64%); CHARITIES (50%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



278 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1881 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: Buona Notte, Guten Tag: Europe's New Workdays;
With Unemployment High, the Continent Experiments With the Time Clock

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: BOLOGNA, Italy

 BODY:
For 20 years, Amadeo Nassetti's routine had been as immovable as the huge machines he works on at a factory here owned by Bonfiglioli Group. He put in the same eight hours a day, starting at 8 A.M., five days a week.
But last year, his 21st at Bonfiglioli, a world leader in the manufacture of gearboxes and electrical motors, Mr. Nassetti suddenly needed a dance card to keep track of his schedule. Instead of 40 hours a week, he found himself working fewer than 32, and in rotating shifts starting as far apart as 6 A.M. and 10 P.M. Some weeks he worked four days, others five; some weeks he worked Saturdays, in others he had four-day weekends. This fall, the 57-year-old Mr. Nassetti has a 34-hour week, with most Saturdays and Sundays off. The only thing that has remained the same is his salary. 
 Mr. Nassetti's shorter but far less predictable schedule is corporate Europe's answer to an bitter debate now sweeping the Continent about jobs. As politicians, labor leaders and employers argue over the age-old vision of cutting working hours, some bigger companies, like Bonfiglioli, have already taken out the ax. But they are doing it to enhance their competitiveness, particularly internationally, and not to help cut unemployment, as some are urging, by letting those without work take up the slack.
"It was not really an issue of reducing hours but of gaining flexibility," said Sonia Bonfiglioli, the company's chief executive.
Adding jobs has been the goal of left-wing politicians and union leaders searching for ways to slice Europe's persistently high unemployment, double the level in the United States. If the Continent cannot increase the size of its economic pie, they argue, then workers should make do with a smaller slice -- though no less pay -- so that more people can come to the table.
The idea has caught on in Italy, where the Government recently pledged to trim the maximum legal workweek to 35 hours, from 40, by the year 2001. The French have made a similar vow.
But those moves have isolated Paris and Rome from the rest of the 15-member European Union, which rejects the idea as ineffective. And they have splintered labor into angry camps.
Some in labor's mainstream say a rigid system of shorter hours, by itself, could actually cost jobs by adding expense to European companies that already have trouble competing effectively in the global market. Shorter hours should be negotiated on a company-by-company basis, the mainstream says, with cuts in pay, if necessary, and above all with an eye to increasing a company's productivity.
But those on the left say governments must require employers to redistribute work, after shortening hours, to create new jobs. Otherwise, they argue, the exercise only serves to cement the privileges of existing employees. France and Italy, however, are tending toward a system that would not require new hiring. Instead, the Government would merely provide incentives to add workers, through tax breaks, perhaps, or subsidies toward the social security and health costs of any new employees.
As the debate rages on, more and more companies, like Bonfiglioli, say they cannot wait for a resolution. Growing into the role of multinational players, they have an immediate need to deal with surges and declines in the global economy, and one way is to be flexible with hours.
In short, the goal for these companies is not social engineering, but corporate re-engineering. Mr. Nassetti is working less but arguably harder, given the wear and tear of an ever-changing schedule. And while Bonfiglioli did some hiring, that was only because there was more demand for its products.
In arguing against legislation to force lower hours on a company without allowing other changes in work rules, Ms. Bonfiglioli said, "Reducing hours only makes sense under conditions of greater flexibility."
The twists and turns of the debate are all on display at Bonfiglioli. Since it negotiated a deal with its unions to cut the hours of Mr. Nassetti and his colleagues, its payroll has grown to 930 from 863.
Such results make proponents of shorter hours exult. Nerio Nesi, the economic spokesman of the Communist Refoundation Party, which demanded and got the pledge of a national law mandating a 35-hour week, cites his party's slogan, "Work for everyone, by working less." Companies can pay for the extra employees, he said, by dipping into profits.
But Ms. Bonfiglioli begs to differ.
In 1995, her company found itself with a sudden surge in demand for its sophisticated gearboxes and motors, as economies around the world emerged from recession and sales of the automobiles, farm tractors and other machinery that contain gearboxes jumped. Last year, the company, which was founded in 1956 by Ms. Bonfiglioli's father, Clementino, had sales of $207 million, compared with $98 million five years ago.
The sharp rise in orders presented the company with some difficult decisions, however. More overtime, the classic recipe for bolstering production, was prohibitively expensive, with metal workers in the company's seven factories pocketing 25 percent bonuses for overtime on Saturdays and 50 percent on Sundays. Moreover, the construction of a new factory was risky: if demand fizzled, Bonfiglioli would be stuck with a surplus plant and staff.
But by winning the right to move Mr. Nassetti and others around to night and weekend shifts as production needs dictated -- and without having to pay them at overtime rates for the privilege -- the company was able to greatly increase output with a minimum of additional employees. And because it could use the existing factories more efficiently, by keeping the machines running virtually around the clock, there was no need to build an extra plant.
Changes like these largely reflect the new realities of doing business on a global stage. Faced with the vagaries of international markets, many European companies are trying to find ways to be responsive without incurring excessive fixed costs. The goal is to create so-called breathing factories, in which production expands and contracts with demand, like a living organism.
Companies in the United States, of course, went through similar adjustments in recent years as they cut millions of jobs, switching instead to contract workers and outsourcing to remain competitive. But in Europe, with rigid social structures, strong labor unions and far higher unemployment, the pressure to achieve flexibility is even greater.
And indeed, Ms. Bonfiglioli acknowledges she was only copying a model for cutting working hours that was created in Germany several years earlier by Volkswagen, Europe's largest auto maker. At that time, VW faced the possibility of having to lay off about a third of its work force in Germany, or about 30,000 people, as an aging product line and the European recession combined to hollow out demand.
To avoid the huge layoffs, Volkswagen negotiated a complex package in 1993 with the powerful metal workers' union to cut the average workweek to less than 29 hours -- from 36 hours -- distributed over four days. In return, the union agreed to have wages reduced by up to 15 percent.
VW saved 20,000 of the 30,000 jobs, but in exchange it got the right to increase the workweek to as many as 35 hours, without paying overtime. Now, revived European economies and a renewed product line have caused demand to soar.
Peter Hartz, Volkswagen's chief of personnel and architect of the plan, says his goal is to extend the program to all 280,000 employees around the world.
And Volkswagen's model has found emulators elsewhere in Germany. In Munich, BMW operates its factories on similar principles, based roughly on a four-day week. Siemens, the electrical and electronics conglomerate, was able to save 5,000 jobs at one factory with a similar deal.
What animates the left's drive for shorter hours, say experts like Aris Accornero, a professor of industrial sociology at Rome University, is the conviction dating back to Karl Marx and other classical leftist theoreticians that "life, in effect, begins after work." Historically, however, the proposal has been "the daughter of desperation, not of hope," Professor Accornero said.
In the Great Depression, the Geneva-based International Labor Organization broached the idea of shorter hours, and in France, the leftist Government of Prime Minister Leon Blum put it into effect, slashing the week's hours to 40, from 48, the professor said. In the United States, socially innovative companies like Kellogg, the cereal maker, experimented with a 36-hour week.
Yet rarely do shorter hours serve to create more jobs, Professor Accornero said. Indeed, to regain productivity lost by shorter hours at equal pay, companies usually respond with better organization of work, which often means more stress for the remaining employees and more automation, which further reduces jobs. And the experience at Volkswagen bears this out.
"We got jobs, at the price of more intensive work," said Hans-Jurgen Uhl, the secretary general of the worker council at VW's main German plant, in Wolfsburg. "There is a subjective feeling of increased performance, and the work force will continue to drop." Where once two secretaries toiled, now there is one, he said, and while workers once took an extended coffee break to celebrate a colleague's birthday, they now do it after hours. Meanwhile, the drive to greater productivity continues, translating into fewer jobs.
Thanks to new manufacturing technology, said Hans-Peter Blechinger, a Volkswagen spokesman, VW's new Golf compact takes 20 hours to build, against 30 to 33 hours for the outgoing model. "In the medium term, we foresee a drop in employment because of productivity improvements," he said.
To get more productivity out of workers, VW is even trying to squeeze out the old notion of life beginning only after work. The goal of Mr. Hartz, the personnel head, is to turn each VW worker into an "entrepreneur on the factory floor, who acts decisively without orders from above to achieve the company's goals." Volkswagen and the unions hammer the message again and again at the work force. To induce workers to identify further with the company's goals, VW initiated a stock purchase program.
But such efforts to bind workers to their company's life only serve to accelerate what Kurt Vogler-Ludwig, a labor market specialist at the IFO Institute for Economic Research in Munich, describes as a widening split among European union leaders. Those who believe that embracing such a philosophy is the only road to preserving existing industrial jobs are increasingly at odds with more radical leaders, he says, who accuse the mainstream unions of essentially selling out to management to preserve the perks of those who are still employed.
"Now the unions represent more and more the interests of those with jobs," Mr. Vogler-Ludwig said.
For their part, the mainstream unions were angered by the demand in Italy for a 35-hour week. A nationwide law would shackle negotiating flexibility, their leaders said, and ultimately destroy jobs.
"We should have a reduced number of hours," said Sergio D'Antoni, head of the CISL union. "But we also have to reduce the cost of work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Italian labor movement is split over a proposed law for a maximum 35-hour workweek. Some unions say the move would cost jobs, while others say it would have the opposite effect. Striking metal workers marched in Rome last year. (Photographs by Associated Press; FPG International clock )
 
Graph: "Not Just 9 to 5"
Faced with high unemployment, some European countries have been debating whether to reduce the workweek in hopes of creating more jobs. But a few companies in Europe, seeking more flexible schedules to reduce costs and improve productivity, are achieving the same goal for different reasons, adding to conflicts among labor, business and government. All figures are for 1996.
 
BRITAIN
 
Average weekly hours worked in manufacturing -- 35.6
Average total hourly compen-sation for pro-duction workers -- $14.19
 
FRANCE
 
Average weekly hours worked in manufacturing -- 31.7
Average total hourly compen-sation for pro-duction workers -- $19.34
 
GERMANY
 
Average weekly hours worked in manufacturing -- 29.0
Average total hourly compen-sation for pro-duction workers -- $31.87
 
ITALY
 
Average weekly hours worked in manufacturing -- 35.0
Average total hourly compen-sation for pro-duction workers -- $18.08
 
U.S.
 
Average weekly hours worked in manufacturing -- 37.9
Average total hourly compen-sation for pro-duction workers -- $17.74
 
Graph tracks the unemployments rates in each country, since 1990. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; DRI/McGraw-Hill) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); ITALY (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (78%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (67%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; GERMANY; ITALY; EUROPE; EUROPE (96%); ITALY (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WORKING HOURS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; PRODUCTIVITY EMPLOYMENT (91%); SPEED CHANGER DRIVE & GEAR MFG (90%); EMPLOYEE TIMEKEEPING (90%); WORK WEEK (89%); JOB CREATION (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); POLITICS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); LIBERALISM (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); 

PERSON: ;TAGLIABUE, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



279 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: To Streamline, G.M. Will Take Charges Up to $3 Billion

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 11

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation announced today that it would take a charge against earnings of $2 billion to $3 billion as early as the fourth quarter to pay for job cuts, write-downs in the value of some factories and other changes intended to streamline the company in the long term.
G.M. said the actions were prompted by its continuing study of the competitiveness of its major lines of business. It did not announce what the exact moves would be, even though they could cost the auto maker as much as it has earned in the last six months. The bulk of the job cuts are expected to come in Europe, where G.M. is struggling to compete with a newly resurgent Volkswagen. 
 Wall Street was surprised by the charges, and drove G.M. stock down $1.8125, or 2.8 percent, today to $63.625. At least two auto analysts lowered their fourth-quarter earnings estimates. Analysts' earlier consensus view was that G.M. would earn $2.04 a share in the fourth quarter, according to First Call.
Still, most auto analysts applauded the moves for the long term. "G.M. is trying to be pro-active, to cut costs quicker, so that whenever a downturn comes, they'll be better prepared for it," said Scott F. Merlis, president of Merlis Automotive International, an independent automotive research firm based in Westport, Conn. "It is good news in the sense that G.M. is accelerating its cost-reduction efforts."
G.M. disclosed the huge charges as part of a lengthy filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission related to the spinoff of its Hughes defense unit to Raytheon, a move that is expected to bring a net gain of $3.9 billion to $4.5 billion in the fourth quarter. G.M. said the charges of $2 billion to $3 billion after taxes, which amount to $2.85 to $4.27 a share, would come in the fourth quarter or early next year. Analysts expect the company to take the charges in the fourth quarter because they would be more than offset by the hefty gain from the Hughes sale.
Fourth-quarter earnings could be crimped by higher-than-expected costs of rebates and by the economic turmoil in emerging markets, G.M.'s chief financial officer, J. Michael Losh, told analysts at a dinner Monday in New York. Incentive levels reached an average of $992 a vehicle in the third quarter, and G.M. expected them to be at least that high in the fourth quarter.
Mr. Merlis, who lowered his fourth-quarter estimate today by 10 cents, to $1.88 a share, said that increased incentives -- he expects them to average $1,000 a vehicle -- would come because of the fierce competition for sales of sport utility vehicles, mini-vans and pickup trucks.
Some of the $2 billion to $3 billion in charges will stem from actions already announced. For instance, in September G.M. put on the block three businesses from its Delphi auto parts unit: its coil springs operations in Michigan, its lighting business in Indiana and Louisiana, and its seating business in Michigan and several countries abroad. None has yet sold. Together, the three businesses employ 11,300 people, and G.M. said it hoped new buyers would preserve those jobs.
G.M.'s European division, Opel, had already told its unions in Belgium that it planned to lower costs, probably by laying off 1,900 workers. And it was scrambling to identify cost savings elsewhere in its European operations, with workers across the European Union fearing further job cuts. Still, the previously announced Delphi divestiture (which is likely to result in asset writedowns) and the job cuts in Belgium were not expected to result in charges of more than $500 million -- a fraction of the $2 billion to $3 billion in charges.
The United States factory seen most vulnerable to being closed is the giant Buick City complex in Flint, Mich., which has a work force of nearly 10,000. It was scheduled to build the Buick LeSabre through the 1999 model year, but it had not been assigned a car or truck to build afterward. The complex also contains a truck engine factory and several smaller components assembly lines.
"The global automotive industry, including the components and systems market, has become increasingly competitive and is presently undergoing significant restructuring and consolidation activities," G.M. said in its regulatory filing. "All of the major industry participants are continuing to increase their focus on efficiency and cost improvements, while announced capacity increases for the North American market and excess capacity in the European market have led to continuing price pressures."
David Bradley, an auto analyst at J. P. Morgan Securities Inc., said he was heartened by the prospect of the charges because future earnings were likely to be better. "Their cost structure isn't where it needs to be," he said, and the announcement "tends to imply that the restructuring mentality continues." He expected the charges would come not from huge factory closings but from the write-down of overvalued assets, including uncompetitive factories.
Mr. Bradley said the timing of the charges was tied to the Hughes sale. "It has become quite fashionable at very large U.S. companies to find an offsetting loss whenever you have a large gain," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RTN (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); RAYTHEON CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS LAYOFFS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (70%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (65%); SALES REBATES (62%); EMERGING MARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



280 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: In MCI-Worldcom Theory, New View of Competition

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
Consolidation is good for competition.
That is the conventional wisdom emerging within the telecommunications industry, and it seems to contradict the goals of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. Or does it? 
 If Worldcom Inc. completes its $36.5 billion takeover of the MCI Communications Corporation, the deal would bring to nearly $100 billion the total value of the mergers in the telecommunications industry since the act was signed last year.
To some politicians and regulators, all this deal-making has perverted the law's purpose, which was to create new choices in communications as many big companies battled head to head, with consumers picking the winners and enjoying lower prices. From this viewpoint, consolidation raises the specter of very few companies offering take-it-or-leave-it choices, with little if any reduction in prices.
Critics note, for example, that instead of two neighboring Bell telephone companies like Nynex and Bell Atlantic raiding each other's territories, consolidation has resulted in the merger of those companies -- with consumers in each region still having only one local telephone company.
But the thinking on Wall Street and within the industry these days is that true competition and price reductions will come only through the formation of a handful of national players -- companies big and rich enough to build their own networks and compete head on with full lineups of local, long-distance, Internet and other communications services.
Rather than deprive consumers of potential options, the thinking goes, mega-mergers can create companies powerful enough to invade one another's markets and bring competition to the masses.
No one is arguing this case louder than Bernard J. Ebbers, the chairman of Worldcom who has engineered dozens of telecommunications mergers and is set to run the combined MCI Worldcom, which would be the No. 2 long-distance company.
"This is in the best interest of the Telecommunications Act," Mr. Ebbers said at the news conference on Monday, when he announced the MCI-Worldcom agreement. MCI Worldcom, he said, would become the only company so far to build alternative networks to serve both residential and business local telephone customers. "And we intend to pursue that very aggressively," he said.
If MCI Worldcom does build local networks to compete for residential customers against the entrenched local telephone companies, it would be the first to do so. The investment required to create a new residential local telephone network is huge, and so far no company has made it.
When politicians like Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, the chairman of the Commerce Committee, which oversees the Federal Communications Commission, criticize the Telecom Act or how it is being carried out, they generally cite the failure of any company to provide a broad local telephone alternative for residential customers.
Instead of more choice in local telephone markets, the number of regional Bells has declined to five from seven as Bell Atlantic acquired Nynex for $25.6 billion in August and SBC Communications acquired Pacific Telesis for $16.7 billion in April.
Yet, despite the outcry in Washington over consolidation, those deals won Federal regulatory approval fairly easily. And it does not appear that the MCI-Worldcom merger will die in Washington, either.
It was a different matter last summer, though, when the AT&T Corporation and SBC Communications were not so privately discussing a merger and Federal officials indicated their adamant opposition.
And therein may lie a public-policy contradiction. It appears that Washington may be willing to countenance a kind of incremental consolidation that may in fact do little to usher in competitive choices but may prove reluctant to sign off on the kind of mega-mergers that some experts think may be a prerequisite to full-blown competition.
That is in part because the takeovers already approved have essentially been what economists call horizontal mergers, in which the merging companies already offer the same services.
Because the four Baby Bells that became two were already dominant in their regions, allowing them to merge did not directly enhance their market power, analysts said. As such, the deals passed antitrust scrutiny. And so might the merger of MCI and Worldcom, which together would control only about a quarter of the long-distance telephone market.
Horizontal mergers are attractive to companies because they allow their participants to save large sums of money as they consolidate operations. Worldcom and MCI, for example, are projecting billions of dollars a year in cost savings.
Mr. Ebbers and many defenders of such mergers say that some of those savings can then be used to expand into new markets. Of course, some of the savings can also generate the earnings-per-share growth valued so highly by Wall Street.
But some executives and analysts are convinced that horizontal mergers alone will not create companies with heft enough to break into entrenched local telephone markets. What is needed, many say, are vertical mergers -- the combination of companies offering different though complementary services. Local and long-distance companies, for example, could combine their resources, expertise and brand names to expand into markets now controlled by powerful incumbents.
"The Government, if they really want competition in all of the markets, will have to permit vertical mergers as well, or you will never get the level of competition desired," said Frank Governali, a telecommunications analyst for Credit Suisse First Boston.
AT&T tried a vertical merger earlier this year, when it tried to combine with SBC. But Reed E. Hundt, who was chairman of the F.C.C. at the time, torpedoed the negotiations by calling such a deal "unthinkable." No one knows just how the F.C.C.'s new chairman, William E. Kennard, would handle such a proposal.
Telecommunications executives and investment bankers, who earn substantial fees when they arrange mergers, are among those arguing that vertical mergers could be even better for consumers than horizontal ones.
How? In a vertical merger, where the companies have been offering different services, the combined company cannot hope to save as much by eliminating duplicate operations. And so, the advocates argue, the newly combined company would have stronger incentives to move quickly into new markets -- as a way to generate new revenue rather than simply increase the profitability of its existing business.
That is the theory, at least -- though not one that Washington has yet been willing to put to the test. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (98%); VZ (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLDCOM INC; MCI COMMUNICATIONS CORP VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLDCOM INC; MCI COMMUNICATIONS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; INDUSTRY PROFILES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (93%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); MERGERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (89%); TAKEOVERS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH JOHN MCCAIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



281 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Official Says Baghdad Will Continue to Defy U.N.

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Nov. 11

 BODY:
Iraq's Foreign Minister said today that his country saw no alternative to its stand of defiance against the United Nations and remained committed to its threat to expel American weapons inspectors.
The Foreign Minister, Mohammed Said al-Sahaf, offered no hint of flexibility in a confrontation that has now lasted two weeks. Instead, Mr. Sahaf said Baghdad had been "put in a corner" by the American-led policy that has subjected Iraq to seven years of crippling economic sanctions with no sign of respite, and that his Government was acting in the view that "there is no hope." 
 "A shock now is a necessity, a necessity so that the Security Council, a very responsible international body, should listen," Mr. Sahaf declared at a news conference in Baghdad. He appeared to be referring both to his Government's decision to prevent Americans from taking part in United Nations weapons inspections and to its vow to expel American inspectors unless diplomacy now under way in New York produces a satisfactory outcome.
Appearing in a dark green military uniform, and sitting beneath a portrait of President Saddam Hussein, Mr. Sahaf also reiterated an Iraqi threat to shoot down any American spy plane that enters Iraqi airspace, as U-2 aircraft do regularly as part of the ongoing United Nations effort to monitor Iraq's weapons programs.
And although they did not put forward any new proposals, the Foreign Minister's remarks seemed intended to serve notice around the world that Iraq saw little to lose in refusing to heed United Nations dictates.
"There is a deliberate plan to perpetuate the sanctions imposed on Iraq," Mr. Sahaf said, speaking in English. "We are put in a position where there is no hope -- it is a hopeless position -- and we have no other alternative but to defend our rights, to say the facts, and to stop dealing or cooperating with the elements who are blocking the way toward lifting sanctions."
Mr. Sahaf met with reporters in the early evening, Baghdad time, long before the end of a long day of verbal sparring at United Nations headquarters in New York, where an Iraqi delegation headed by Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz has been trying to present his Government's case.
Iraq first threatened on Oct. 29 to expel American inspectors, but it has agreed to suspend action until the current round of United Nations diplomacy could be completed. It has continued, however, to turn away American inspectors who seek to gain entry into Iraq, and it continued even today to prevent operations by United Nations weapons teams because they included Americans.
With the United Nations apparently heading toward confrontation instead of accommodation with Iraq, Mr. Sahaf seemed to indicate that expulsion of the half-dozen or so American inspectors left in Iraq might now not be far away.
Asked if Iraq was still committed to that threat, the Foreign Minister answered, "This is for sure."
The Baghdad newspaper Babel, which is owned by President Hussein's eldest son, said in an editorial published today that Iraq should reject "any promise or sweet words" that the United Nations might offer with the aim of putting an end to the crisis. The newspaper, which generally reflects official thinking, asserted that Iraq should accept nothing short of "an official and clear document which guarantees two demands: neutrality of inspection teams and setting a time frame for lifting the embargo."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); JORDAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); AMMAN, JORDAN (66%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); JORDAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); AMMAN, JORDAN (66%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (91%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); ESPIONAGE (72%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (71%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (66%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; SAHAF, MOHAMMED SAID AL- (MIN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



282 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: THE TRADE BILL: BUSINESS;
Executives Say Trade Bill Defeat Will Hurt Economy

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11

 BODY:
The managers of many American businesses said today that the inability of Congress and the Clinton Administration to pass a measure granting the President broad authority to negotiate trade deals could cost companies and the economy dearly in the long run.
The outcome, which organized labor hailed as a victory for its demands that trading partners be required to improve workers' rights and environmental standards in return for access to the American market, came as a shock to some executives. They said they had assumed that the combination of a Republican majority in Congress and an Administration that is strongly pro-free trade would be sufficient to insure the passage of the measure, which was withdrawn in the House early on Monday when it became clear it would be defeated. 
 "It seems to me common sense to give the President that power because we're missing huge opportunities to do trade deals and create jobs in this country," said Michael S. Starnes, the chairman and chief executive of M. S. Carriers Inc. of Memphis, a trucking company.
"The ramifications for the economy could be serious," Mr. Starnes said. "I'm concerned that we'll end up exporting jobs rather than products."
And while many executives said in interviews today that they blamed organized labor for dooming the trade measure, some also faulted the business community for not doing a better job of making its case to members of Congress.
As they conducted a post-mortem on one of the most bitterly fought political battles in years, politicians, lobbyists and analysts agreed that business groups had simply been unable to create the ground swell of grass-roots support for their pro-trade position that labor unions created in opposition to the measure.
Whatever benefits "fast track" negotiating authority might bring to the economy and workers, they said, lawmakers heard about them primarily from lobbyists and senior business executives, not from workers and other voters in their districts.
"When big business goes head to head with unions, the unions clean their clock," said one Republican aide in Congress who was involved with efforts to pass the trade bill. "It's nice for a C.E.O. to come and sit on a sofa across from a Congressman and support free trade. But the other side is generating hundreds of phone calls, thousands of postcards and picketing outside the member's district office."
Some business executives said the trade battle had already led them to rethink their strategies for promoting their agenda in Washington. Among other steps, they said, they will do more to sell their own workers on the benefits of trade and encourage employees to make their opinions known to their members of Congress.
"We were working pretty hard," said Ronald Bullock, the chairman of the Bison Gear and Engineering Company in St. Charles, Ill., "but I think that we did not do enough in employee involvement, to help our employees contact their Congressional representatives to help sell the bill."
"We have to do more in helping our employees understand why this is good for the country, and in helping them to voice their concerns," Mr. Bullock said.
Many executives said the most immediate danger was from European and Asian competitors who are making inroads into fast-growing markets in Central and South America while the United States is effectively precluded from negotiating market-opening deals in those regions.
Eventually, they said, the same thing will happen in other parts of the world. And as it does, American companies will increasingly shift production from the United States to those regions in order to escape tariffs and other trade barriers, causing an acceleration of the trend that has seen manufacturing jobs migrate for decades to other nations.
"When we go, the jobs go," said Dennis W. Sheehan, the chairman of Axia Inc., a manufacturer in Oak Brook, Ill., which is under growing pressure to follow its major customers, including appliance makers, to new plants in other countries.
The automobile industry strongly supported the trade bill. But, reluctant to jeopardize their increasingly warm relations with the United Automobile Workers union, a leading opponent of the measure, auto executives made few public statements this autumn in favor of fast-track authority, preferring to confer with members of Congress in private.
Some business groups disputed the idea that they had failed to sell their case effectively, and said the main problem was that President Clinton had waited until September to disclose the details of the trade legislation.
"It is clear that the business community did a very good job in a short period of time," said Thomas Donohue, the head of the United States Chamber of Commerce. "It's also clear that if the President had come out with the bill sooner, we would have had a better chance of getting more supporters."
The Maytag Corporation had sales and administrative employees contacting more than 100 members of Congress to push for passage of the fast-track bill.
"But the opposition had an easier story to sell because they linked it to some of the bitterness left over from the Nafta debate," said Douglas Horstman, the company's vice president for government affairs, referring to the ratification of the North American Free Trade Agreement, with Mexico and Canada, in 1993. "Some of the labor unions played that theme very well."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SWFT (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS484230 SPECIALIZED FREIGHT (EXCEPT USED GOODS) TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE (69%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (69%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (69%); NAICS332111 IRON & STEEL FORGING (50%); SIC3462 IRON & STEEL FORGING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: SWIFT TRANSPORTATION CO INC (69%); BISON GEAR & ENGINEERING INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY LEGISLATION (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); STRIKES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (73%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (61%); TRUCKING (52%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



283 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Russian Partner in Iran Deal Postpones Its Bond Offering

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11

 BODY:
Facing extraordinary pressure from Washington, a major Russian partner in a project to explore for natural gas in Iran today postponed a bond offering to raise up to $3 billion.
The postponement has temporarily headed off a decision by the Clinton Administration about whether to impose sanctions on the companies involved. 
 The Russian natural gas monopoly, Gazprom, cited uncertain market conditions in announcing the delay in a deal that had put the Clinton Administration in an awkward position. The lead underwriter for Gazprom is the American investment bank Goldman, Sachs, which might be found liable for its role under a Federal law aimed at punishing Iran.
The law -- the 1996 Iran-Libya Sanctions Act, which was devised to punish companies that invest more than $20 million in Iran's energy sector -- is being challenged by this deal, a $2 billion contract to pump natural gas signed by Gazprom, the French company Total and the Malaysian oil company Petronas.
The Gazprom postponement gives the Clinton Administration and its allies time to come up with a solution, but it does not make the problem go away. At the White House today, key Cabinet secretaries met in a so-called principals' meeting to discuss the competing interests involved -- American national security, deterrence of Iran, relations with allies, relations with Russia, relations with Congress and the impact of any new sanctions on the reputation of American markets.
"This is a very tough one," a senior Administration official said. "There are a lot of competing interests, and the coherence of our Iran policy is at stake."
Stopping the Gazprom financing would punish a key Russian company, partly owned by the Russian Government, that is vital to the success of Russia's shaky market economy. It would also punish Goldman, Sachs, a big contributor to President Clinton's campaign whose former co-chairman is the powerful Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, without stopping any other foreign company from underwriting Gazprom.
Stopping the financing would also short-circuit a process of investigation of the companies, called for under the law, and disrupt negotiations with European allies about how to deal most effectively with Iran and its efforts to develop weapons of mass destruction and the missiles to deliver them.
Adding to the pressure on the Administration, Congress had begun to discuss how to punish Goldman, Sachs and is already holding up the issuing of further Export-Import Bank credits to Gazprom.
On Wednesday the House of Representatives is expected to pass legislation that would sanction newly privatized Russian companies that are helping Iran develop longer-range missiles. While the Senate is not expected to take up the legislation until after its recess, the Administration will try to use the threat of the new sanctions to get Moscow "to behave on Iran," another senior official said.
President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia has been told about the difficulties that Gazprom and its partners present on Iran.
Mr. Clinton spoke to Mr. Yeltsin by telephone about Iran on Oct. 29. He reminded the Russian leader that he had stood by Mr. Yeltsin when no one else did, and that he needed Mr. Yeltsin to take the Iran problem more seriously, said a Clinton contributor who heard about the call from Mr. Clinton himself.
Iran's support for terrorism and its potential threat with new missiles to Israel and moderate Arab countries has been an important issue for American Jews.
Asked at a Palm Beach, Fla., lunch on Oct. 31 about the Iran sanction cases, Mr. Clinton said he opposed outside help to Iran. "We're in an intense debate within the Administration now about what exactly we ought to do about it," he said. Mr. Clinton said he disagreed with "most of our allies -- they all think we're all wet," adding, "But I just believe that we should not be conducting ordinary business with a country that funds, trains and supports terrorists."
No one at Goldman, Sachs would comment publicly on the Gazprom announcement. While Gazprom has good financial reasons, after the Russian stock market drop, to postpone the bond offering, both Gazprom and Goldman, Sachs have good political and strategic reasons not to force a challenge to the Clinton Administration now, American officials said, just when it is trying to salvage its Iran policy without starting a sanctions war with the rest of the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (93%); GAZP (RTS) (93%); GS (NYSE) (92%); SIBN (RTS) (92%); GAZ (LSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (71%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: GAZPROM OAO GAZPROM (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); OAO GAZPROM NEFT (92%); PETROLIAM NASIONAL BHD (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: GAZPROM

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; IRAN; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (71%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); BONDS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (73%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (60%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (57%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



284 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Abortion Issue Imperils $3.5 Billion U.S. Payment to the I.M.F.

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11

 BODY:
Angered over the Clinton Administration's stand on abortions overseas, Senate Republicans are threatening to withhold the $3.5 billion the Administration wants to use to deal with financial crises, like those in Southeast Asia.
In 1995, in the wake of the American-led bailout of Mexico, the Administration proposed that the International Monetary Fund create a $48 billion reserve, provided by 25 nations, that could be used to handle future emergencies. A major reason was to insure that the United States would not have to bear the brunt of future bailouts. 
 In the last three months, the I.M.F. has said it will lend $17 billion to Thailand and $10 billion to Indonesia, as part of a broad international effort to stabilize their currencies and shore up their failing banks.
But on Monday, after the failure of President Clinton's effort to persuade Congress to grant him new authority to negotiate trade accords, the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott, suggested that the money could be deleted from the foreign aid budget. He suggested that the outcome would depend on Mr. Clinton's willingness to accept anti-abortion restrictions on the use of American funds in population programs overseas.
Mr. Clinton refused to change his position on the abortion issue last weekend, even though that concession could have won enough votes from conservative Republicans to assure the passage of the "fast track" trade bill. Because Mr. Clinton has said that the $3.5 billion financing for the I.M.F. is a high priority, it has become the natural next target of those seeking restrictions that would stop money from going to foreign organizations that provide abortions or lobby governments to change abortion laws. The proposed Senate restriction would not apply to organizations that counsel patients to consider abortions.
Mr. Lott has also suggested that Republicans may drop from the bill $926 million that the United States owes to the United Nations in dues that are now deeply in arrears. Should the United States fail to pay, the United Nations would have the right to suspend its seat in the General Assembly, though not in the far more powerful Security Council.
The $3.5 billion would comprise the first American contribution to a financial credit line called the "New Arrangements to Borrow." It arose from the annual summit meeting of the world's largest industrial countries in 1995 in Halifax, Canada. Worried by the stresses that the collapse of the Mexican currency placed on financial markets around the world, Western leaders called for a new fund that could be used to stabilize nations in sudden, deep distress that threatens to rocket around world financial markets.
That is exactly what happened in Southeast Asia. Already, Asian nations have grown nervous that the United States will fail to make its contribution -- a step that might encourage other countries to do the same -- and they have begun discussing alternatives.
One, proposed by Japan in September, would create a special fund for Asian nations, perhaps outside of the I.M.F.'s jurisdiction. That would greatly diminish American influence over bailout programs, and could weaken the ability of the Fund to require austerity measures for countries like Thailand and Indonesia.
"We think the funding is in significant jeopardy," an Administration official said today. "But this has become a political football over abortion, rather than a discussion of how to keep countries afloat."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); CANADA (71%); 

STATE: NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (71%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND F IS (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (94%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); CANADA (71%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN AID ABORTION (92%); BAILOUTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (85%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CURRENCIES (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BONDS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (51%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



285 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: For Messinger, No Regrets (and No Parade)

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

 BODY:
There was a parade yesterday, but Ruth W. Messinger did not go.
Five weeks ago, five months ago -- even five years ago -- that would have been unthinkable. Ms. Messinger's dream of becoming the mayor of New York City was still alive then, and the nurturing of it required appearances whenever and wherever the news cameras might be present. It required smiles when she did not feel them and sore feet that kept on moving. 
 But yesterday, while other politicians plodded down Fifth Avenue to mark Veterans Day, Ms. Messinger reclined on a couch in her Central Park West apartment, missing the parade for what she said was the first time in a decade.
Call it a luxury of defeat.
It is probably one of the few that Ms. Messinger will allow herself.
For in every other respect, the woman who just a week earlier had lost by an overwhelming margin to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani was indistinguishable from the Democratic nominee who had hustled endlessly around the city, seeking a level of support that consistently eluded her.
In her sunlit living room, she talked about the educational crisis gripping New York City in the same dire language that she had used for months on end. She issued warnings about the city's high unemployment rate, as if still making a case to voters.
And she made clear, with every unprompted soliloquy and prescription, that while she may opt out of the parades, she will not be left out of the debate.
"All I know is that I will continue -- professionally and, small p, politically -- to work on the issues that I talked about in this campaign, which are the issues that I have worked on and talked about for 20 years," Ms. Messinger said.
She does not yet know specifically how she will do that once her term as Manhattan Borough President expires at the end of this year. She has no firm plans or job offers. She is not currently eyeing any other political office.
But it became clearer than ever yesterday that what she was doing and saying on the campaign trail in recent months was no temporary audition, nor was it a curtain call.
"Let me be very clear," she said yesterday, using the same locution and stern tone she had in her campaign, "the things that are going well in New York City -- which I tried very hard to recognize and acknowledge during the course of the campaign -- are not sufficient to affect the quality of life for a huge number of New Yorkers."
Why, then, was Mr. Giuliani re-elected? In her comments yesterday and in an article she wrote for this week's Village Voice, Ms. Messinger gave reasons that were beyond her control. A week's distance from the election had not changed her conviction that she and her advisers did not bungle the race.
What undid her candidacy, she said, was a mood in the city and the country of willful ignorance about problems beyond crime and the economy; news coverage of her campaign that she felt ignored some of the other issues she discussed and some of the enthusiasm she generated and the fact that Mr. Giuliani raised and spent almost twice as much money as she did.
She also said that her candidacy was hurt by the timing of the primary just eight weeks before the election, and that if challengers are to have a fair chance against incumbents in New York, primaries should be moved up to the spring.
She said that in retrospect, she perhaps should have spent more money before the Democratic primary, so that she could have won it more decisively and had a better "bounce." But, she said, until the day or so before the primary, polls suggested that she was in good shape. As it turned out, she narrowly missed having to face the Rev. Al Sharpton in a runoff.
Although Ms. Messinger never publicly focused on the long odds against her, she said she always recognized them, even when she began laying the groundwork for her candidacy three years ago.
Some supporters urged her to wait until 2001, but she was not sure that the odds would be better then, she said. The Democratic field would probably be larger and stronger, she noted, and she might not make it out of the primary.
"I do think a Democrat will win in 2001, and I thought that then," Ms. Messinger said of the next mayoral race. "But I didn't think there was any logic that said I would be that Democrat."
Besides, Ms. Messinger said, she fervently believed that there were issues that Mr. Giuliani was ignoring and that it was crucial for the future of the city that an informed Democratic challenger hold the Mayor's feet to the fire.
At no point, she said, did she lose all hope she might win. Although her husband, Andrew J. Lachman, said that his optimism ran dry about three weeks before Nov. 4 and that he told his wife then that she might want to begin thinking about what else to do with her life, Ms. Messinger said she woke up on Election Day feeling that at least a slight chance of victory existed.
"In a country and a city where turnout is constantly terrible and where you don't know how low turnout is going to be and who is actually going to decide to turn out, it's stupid not to think of every election as winnable," she said.
Yet there was not a scintilla of palpable sadness in her face or voice yesterday, despite the insistence of friends and political colleagues that her mayoral dreams were ardent and go back a decade or more. There was only the serious, all-business aura that Ms. Messinger always exhibits, which may be both the key to her endurance and the limit to her ambition.
Two days after the election, she turned 57, but said she did nothing special to celebrate her birthday. Then, she and Mr. Lachman took a long weekend in Bridgehampton to unwind. Ms. Messinger read a book about homeless New Yorkers and the city's policies and failings in dealing with them.
There is no political office other than mayor, she said, that would satisfy her desire to effect the kinds of changes in the city that she would like to see.
Does that mean she would consider running again?
"Nothing is out of the question -- nothing," Ms. Messinger said. Then, she waved aside further inquiries into that possibility. There were issues and problems she preferred to discuss.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In her Central Park West apartment yesterday, Ruth W. Messinger looked back on the mayoral race she lost to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. She vowed to continue to press issues she raised in the campaign. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: MESSINGER, RUTH W (BORO PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); BRUNI, FRANK RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



286 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: U.N.'s Council Moves to Block Travel by Iraqis

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 11

 BODY:
The Security Council moved today toward all but certain passage of a resolution that will punish Iraq by banning travel by its officials, trying to avert military action by the United States. But no mention will be made of authorizing the use of force or other "serious consequences" if Iraq fails to comply, as the United States had wanted.
Washington, however, has taken the position from the beginning of the crisis over Iraq's order to expel American arms inspectors that Washington already has the Security Council's authority to respond militarily if necessary. 
 The resolution does allow for "further measures as may be needed." And diplomats here are seeing more signs that United Nations action alone may not be enough to force President Saddam Hussein to back down on his expulsion order.
Behind the scenes, diplomats say it is the possibility of an American military strike, which few other nations would support, that is pulling the Council together to condemn Iraq with one voice and to target Iraqi officials with new sanctions that were not supported three weeks ago.
A European diplomat said today that he could only hope that France and Russia, which oppose military action and tougher sanctions, are at the same time delivering a very strong warning to President Hussein in Baghdad, or else the Iraqi leader will once again misread the message the United Nations is sending.
Here and in Baghdad, Iraqi officials hardened their positions, hoping against all signals to the contrary that they can bargain for a reduction in the sanctions that have crippled the country's economy since the Persian Gulf war.
The Iraqi Foreign Minister, Mohammed Said al-Sahaf, said there was no alternative but to "stop dealing or cooperating with the elements who are blocking the way toward lifting sanctions."
The 15-member Council is expected to pass a resolution on Wednesday that will, in addition to imposing a ban on the foreign travel of Iraqi officials, do several things: leave open the possibility of unspecified "further measures;" suspend further reviews of sanctions, and demand that President Hussein cooperate fully with a disarmament commission overseeing the destruction of Baghdad's weapons systems.
Bill Richardson, the United States representative, said tonight, after the Council adjourned, that it was a good resolution with "near-unanimous support." A question still hangs over China's vote, but diplomats do not expect a veto.
"It is a resolution that has teeth, that has united the Security Council once again," he said.
Russian, French and Chinese diplomats said today that Iraq must play by the rules set up in 1991, after Baghdad's defeat in the war. In Egypt, which holds a rotating Security Council seat this year, President Hosni Mubarak called on President Hussein to climb down and avoid a new crisis in the region.
Today's resolution made mention of a statement by the Council two weeks ago that held out the possibility of "serious consequences," but stopped short of repeating that threat.
While the Clinton Administration continues to insist that strong Security Council action is preferred and that an American military response is a distant possibility, the Iraqis seem bent on forcing Washington's hand with their unwillingness to budge from positions adopted since Oct. 29, when they ordered Americans on the arms investigation team out.
Iraq insists on an easing of sanctions, a timetable for the end of the embargo, and a smaller American presence among investigators who can make the call on whether Iraq is complying with the 1991 agreement to disarm under international supervision.
Today, for the eighth time in nine days, Baghdad blocked efforts by the monitors to enter suspect Iraqi sites because United States citizens were among the inspection teams. United Nations officials refuse to send out teams stripped of American experts.
As days pass, concern grows that Iraq may be taking advantage of the suspended inspections to hide potential arms or produce biological or chemical compounds. Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen addressed this fear today.
"Iraq would not be able to reconstitute a serious weapons program in a matter of days," he told reporters in Washington. "If the delay were to carry on for months, then that would be a different situation. That's why time is of the essence here to get Saddam Hussein to fully comply with the inspections regime."
And at a Veterans Day ceremony today at Arlington National Cemetery, President Clinton said, "These inspectors since 1991 have discovered and destroyed more weapons of mass destruction potential than was destroyed in Iraq in the entire gulf war. They are doing what they should be doing. They must get back to work, and the international community must demand it."
Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz, described the confrontation succinctly today when he left a meeting with Qin Huasun, China's representative at the United Nations and this month's Security Council president. Mr. Qin told Mr. Aziz that Iraq would have to comply with the rules before it gets a hearing on any substantive issue.
"I have not been given any concrete promise that there will be a change in the position of the Council," Mr. Aziz told reporters. "And I on my part did not give a concrete promise for change. If you do not have a change on the part of the Security Council, you cannot expect a change in Iraq."
Mr. Aziz, who has not been given an opportunity to address the Security Council, got into a spirited exchange of insults today with Richard Butler, the Australian arms control expert who is executive chairman of the United Nations Special Commission, the body disarming Iraq.
Mr. Butler challenged Mr. Aziz to take a look at the facts about the disarmament mission. Mr. Aziz has been saying that more than 30 percent of the commission jobs are held by Americans and that more "balance" was called for.
Mr. Butler said at a news conference that the top nationality on the 180-member commission, with offices in New York, Bahrain and Baghdad, was Chilean, with 22 percent of the jobs. The Chileans provide helicopters and crews. Americans held 14 percent of the positions, and next, Britons were at 11 percent, New Zealand 9 percent, Iraqis 6 percent and Australians 5 percent.
Mr. Aziz, making a spirited appearance at a microphone placed outside the Security Council, countered that the Iraqis were all low-level employees of no consequence. Americans, he said, held a disproportionate number of sensitive jobs. "So this is a falsification," he said of Mr. Butler's account.
Mr. Butler, who earlier called the accusations by Iraq "wrong on all counts and distasteful," noted that some of the Americans are in New York doing "some of our really dangerous work, like bookkeeping."
He said that when the Iraqis produced a list of Americans to prove their point, they included Britons, a Canadian and a Dane among them. Mr. Butler called this "disturbing and maybe pathetic."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tariq Aziz, left, of Iraq, said Baghdad would not change its position until the Security Council changed its own; Iraq's representative to the United Nations, Nizar Hamdoon, listened. Bill Richardson, Washington's representative, said the resolution "has teeth" and "near-unanimous support." (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); EGYPT (92%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GULF STATES (58%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: SECURITY COUNCIL (UN); UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITY COUNCIL (UN); UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); EGYPT (92%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (79%); GULF STATES (58%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); VETO (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); POLITICS (69%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); BILL RICHARDSON (73%); HOSNI MUBARAK (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



287 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: KODAK TO LAY OFF 10,000 EMPLOYEES IN A 10% CUTBACK

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
The Eastman Kodak Company, which has spent more than a decade reducing its work force, said yesterday that it would cut another 10,000 jobs, the biggest layoff announcement this year by any American company.
Kodak was once known as the "Great Yellow Father" in its hometown of Rochester because of its paternalistic employment practices. But it has been forced to shrink drastically as competition with Fuji of Japan has hurt its biggest business, film, while futuristic photographic products have not caught on as the company had hoped. 
 The measures are the most drastic yet by George M. C. Fisher, Kodak's chief executive, who, when he was hired in 1993, was praised as a corporate visionary with a plan to restore the company's growth but has instead seen profits languish. The company hopes to save $1 billion in the next two years through the job reductions, equal to 10 percent of the work force, and other cuts.
Mr. Fisher acknowledged yesterday that he and his team might not have tackled the problems as quickly as they should have. "We are really mad at ourselves that we got into this situation, but we are out of denial, and determined to get back on track," he said.
In Rochester, where roughly one-third of the company's employees are concentrated, the cuts are sure to have lasting effects. Because of Kodak's philanthropic and research financing, Rochester is still in some respects a one-company town, and many Kodak workers and retirees have large portions of their investments tied up in the company.
For many of these families, the anxiety caused by the announcement was heightened by the fact that the company did not say what businesses or cities would bear the brunt of the layoffs.
Mayor Bill Johnson said that while Kodak had promised him that it would not move any lines of business out of Rochester, the company had made it clear that it "will not create new job possibilities here in the near term."
Nevertheless, the Mayor noted that Rochester had absorbed heavy layoffs in the past, and still had one of the lowest unemployment rates -- 4.2 percent -- in New York State. "There will be short-term pain for the individuals who lose their jobs, but there is a resiliency in the Rochester economy," he said.
Maybe so -- but others wonder whether there is a similar resilience inside Kodak. "After these layoffs, the level of commitment, morale and loyalty is going to be extremely low," said Donald Wilson, a professor of management at the Rochester Institute of Technology.
To be sure, Kodak has been steadily trimming its work force, paring some 40,000 jobs since 1983, and settling at a slimmed-down 94,800 workers by the end of last year. Kodak has traditionally cushioned its employment blows, offering employees rich severance packages to leave on their own, and limiting actual dismissals. But the new cuts will go deeper than ever before. The latest move follows one in late September when the company dismissed 200 of its 1,000 top managers and announced that it would eliminate 10 percent of its sales and administrative staff.
Although the company would not say which cities or operations would be hardest hit by the latest cuts, most analysts expect that marketing, finance and clerical workers will bear the brunt of the layoffs.
The reported earnings of Kodak will be reduced by at least $1 billion, or about $2 a share, in the fourth quarter, to account for severance packages and to write down assets.
Downsizing is not the only weapon in Kodak's cost-cutting arsenal: the company will also pare $150 million off its research budget. And, it is looking at outsourcing, partnerships and various consolidations of operations to squeeze costs out of its manufacturing processes. "We intend to take significant amounts of cost out of the cost of goods sold," said Daniel A. Carp, Kodak's president.
Still, the company's announcement left Wall Street, where the cuts had been widely anticipated, hungering for more. The company's shares, which had risen in the last two weeks, fell 6 percent yesterday -- closing at $62.1875, down $4.0625 -- as investors decided that the measures would not go far enough in improving profits.
Behind much of Kodak's trouble has been the disappointment in the relatively new digital photography business, which involves devices that take pictures and "develop" them using electrons instead of film and that transmit images electronically, as if they were files of data.
Mr. Fisher, who came to Kodak from another high-technology company, Motorola Inc., had once predicted that the digital operations would break even this year; instead, they will probably lose more than $300 million.
In the past, Kodak had been able to fall back on its hugely lucrative film and processing-paper business to buoy earnings when other product lines were flagging. But this time around, Kodak is steadily losing market share to Fuji, which has been undercutting Kodak's prices. The problem has been worsened by the strength of the dollar, which has made Kodak's products relatively more expensive overseas.
Worldwide, each company has about one-third of the film market. In the United States, Kodak still has roughly a two-thirds share, but it has been losing two to three percentage points a year to Fuji, its closest competitor. In Japan, the situation is reversed, with Fuji holding 65 to 70 percent of the market; Kodak, which holds a much smaller share, has long complained of trade barriers.
Analysts said that much of the disappointment on Wall Street yesterday was caused by a lack of specifics about what Kodak would do. "There are still two wild cards," said John Gavin of American Express Financial Services. "How much will Kodak cut film prices, and when will digital finally be profitable?"
So far, Kodak has resisted permanent price reductions as a way to counter Fuji. But it has held several promotions that could easily be taken for price cuts. And, while Mr. Carp is adamant that Kodak "will not lead prices downward" he made it clear that Kodak would not tolerate a further widening of the price gap, which has gone as high as 30 percent in some markets.
That uncertainty has some analysts a bit uneasy. "What Fuji does will become as important as what Kodak does," Robert P. Curran of Merrill Lynch said. Similarly, B. Alexander Henderson of Prudential Securities said, "We're going to be watching Fuji's prices pretty closely, because if they go down again, so will Kodak's earnings."
Fuji insists that it never has, and never will, engage in a price war. In fact, it even raised prices in June. And next month, Fuji, which had been importing film from the Netherlands to sell in the United States, will open a plant in North Carolina, effectively wiping out any advantage from currency fluctuations. "We are going to compete by raising our brand awareness in the marketplace, not by a price war," said Paul A. Hudak, a Fuji vice president.
There is another wild card in the rivalry between Fuji and Kodak. Last year, Kodak filed a complaint with the World Trade Organization, contending that Fuji and Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry were collaborating to keep foreign products out of Japan. The United States Government and the European Union joined in the complaint. The trade organization is expected to decide soon whether to intercede on Kodak's behalf.
Analysts were full of suggestions yesterday as to where Kodak should consolidate and prune its businesses, regardless of the outcome of the battle with Fuji. Many analysts proposed, for example, that the company set up a joint venture for its X-ray film business, which has been under extreme pricing pressure from group purchasing organizations in medical care.
And he made it clear that Kodak would go after every possible retail opportunity. It is, for example, accelerating efforts to push into many more retail outlets its photo manipulation machines, which let consumers crop, enlarge or otherwise enhance photos. And, it is putting more advertising behind products, including the Advantix -- a hybrid camera that uses digital imaging and conventional film.
"Our business is not film, or digital cameras or electronics," Mr. Fisher said. "Our business is pictures, in any form, and we can't lose sight of that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ripples from Kodak are felt all over Rochester, but especially so at the Italian sandwich shop across the street from company headquarters, where the proprietor, Giacomo Di Pisa, served Kodak workers yesterday. (Phil Matt for The New York Times)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EK (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO; FUJI PHOTO FILM CO EASTMAN KODAK CO (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: EASTMAN KODAK CO; FUJI PHOTO FILM CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (92%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MAYORS (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H; FISHER, GEORGE M C WILLIAM D JOHNSON (53%); WILLIAM D JOHNSON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



288 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: 5,000 Absentee Ballots Are Seized in Miami Fraud Inquiry

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 11

 BODY:
State officials have seized more than 5,000 absentee ballots as part of an investigation into possible fraud and vote-buying in last week's mayoral election.
Mayor Joe Carollo received 49.6 percent of the vote, while former Mayor Xavier L. Suarez received 46.8 percent. Since neither received more than half of the vote, a runoff will be held on Thursday. 
 The investigation followed a tip last month that an individual affiliated with the Suarez campaign was buying absentee ballots, though that person has not been charged, investigators said.
But then Manuel Amador, who said he was a campaign volunteer for Mr. Suarez, was charged with three counts of vote fraud last week after an undercover agent said Mr. Amador had agreed to buy three absentee ballots bearing the names of dead voters.
Mr. Suarez, who received 2 out of 3 absentee ballots cast, has denied that Mr. Amador worked for him, but also said he believed that Mr. Amador was entrapped.
Investigators have also focused on Alberto Russi, 92, a volunteer for a City Commission candidate, Humberto Hernandez. Mr. Russi's signature appeared as a witness on at least 90 absentee ballots, officials said, including one purported to have been signed by Manuel Yip, who died in 1993.
A search of Mr. Russi's house on Monday yielded 75 absentee ballots already filled out for Thursday's election, state investigators said.
"What was strange is that many of those 75 had his address," said Jourdan Doyle, regional director of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. "So he was obviously having these ballots sent to his house, possibly without the knowledge of these voters."
Investigators said they also found 21 voter registration cards at Mr. Russi's home.
Lawyers for Mayor Carollo have filed suit to nullify the absentee ballots and declare him the winner.
Mayor Carollo, who weathered a financial crisis stemming from the city's $68 million budget deficit in the past year, and Mr. Suarez, who was Mayor from 1985 to 1993, are bitter rivals.
Both men have waged overwhelmingly negative campaigns, with debates punctuated by shouting matches in Spanish and English.
Both are Cuban-Americans, an important factor in a city that is more than 60 percent Hispanic.
Whoever is elected will be the city's first strong mayor, with added powers.
The Dade County Elections Supervisor, David Leahy, said that in a city with many elderly voters, absentee ballots presented a great potential for fraud.
In recent years, people known as ballot brokers have become more common, Mr. Leahy said. The brokers buy or manipulate voters into giving them signed, blank absentee ballots that can then be cast for any candidate.
The only requirement is that the ballots be counter-signed by a witness, and much of the time these are campaign workers, Mr. Leahy said.
"I think it's healthy that this is out in the open and we're dealing with it,," he said of the current investigation.
Mr. Leahy said restricting the absentee system would be a hardship for the disabled and the elderly.
Dario Moreno, professor of Political Science at Florida International University, said that placing a limit on the number of absentee ballots that one witness could sign might help reduce vote fraud and rescue the city's damaged image.
"This reinforces the Wild West image that the city of Miami has, where scandals and corruption are the usual ways the city does business," Mr. Moreno said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ABSENTEE VOTING; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING BALLOTS (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); LITIGATION (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (78%); ENTRAPMENT (75%); COUNTIES (73%); LAWYERS (68%); BUDGETS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: CAROLLO, JOE (MAYOR); SUAREZ, XAVIER L

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



289 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Mental Care Coverage Costs Little, Study Finds

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 11

 BODY:
Giving employees mental-health coverage on par with the insurance they receive for physical ailments would involve only minimal costs for employers, according to a study.
The findings by Roland Sturm, an economist at the Rand Corporation, a research organization in Santa Monica, Calif., come less than two months before Federal legislation to help achieve parity between mental-health and medical coverage goes into effect. 
 The law generally bars businesses from providing higher annual and lifetime caps for physical diseases than for mental illness.
Mr. Sturm's study appears in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association. He examined data from 24 public-employer health plans with more than 140,000 enrollees each.
All the plans used a common managed-care feature in which medical care and mental health services are provided separately and employers "carve out" mental health care to a subsidiary or an independent vendor.
Mr. Sturm found that removing the typical $25,000 yearly limit on mental health benefits would raise employers' group insurance costs by only about $1 an enrollee a year.
The most expensive changes he looked at would increase an employer's cost by no more than $7 an enrollee. He said his findings applied only to carve-out plans. But most managed-care plans that offer mental health benefits do it through carve-out arrangements. Mr. Sturm acknowledged that most of the employers were in the Midwest and were not in the private sector, where most of the work force is employed.
"The data are not necessarily representative for all industries or for other geographic regions in the country," he wrote.
He examined data from 1995 and 1996. Most previous cost estimates for parity between the two areas of coverage involved much older data reflecting the state of managed care in its infancy and found that the costs would be four to eight times higher than his projections, Mr. Sturm said.
The new law, which will take effect on Jan. 1, does not require employers to offer mental health benefits. But if employers do offer them, the limits on coverage must be equal to those for physical ailments. The law does not apply to some small businesses.
A spokesman for the American Association of Health Plans, which represents managed-care companies and over 1,000 health plans covering more than 140 million people, called Mr. Sturm's report "a very interesting and thoughtful study" but said further research was needed to determine how expensive parity would be.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP RAND CORP (72%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAND CORP AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); MENTAL HEALTH (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (73%); 

PERSON: STURM, ROLAND

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



290 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
Waiting Game: Easier to Play On Level Field

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

 BODY:
DUST clouds hung in the sunny rooms of Gregory Bortnik's home, where work crews broke through floors and walls with jackhammers and drills. They had got a late start on the project, since Mr. Bortnik had only closed on the three-story brick house in Bensonhurst a few days earlier. No problem. In the month that it will take for renovations, his family will double up with their oldest daughter on Long Island.
"We must wait," he said. "We have no choice." 
 Those words could be his motto, perhaps engraved on a plaque by the door. Ten years ago this week, Mr. Bortnik and his family arrived in Brooklyn after having waited, if not wasted, the previous 10 years while Soviet officials first granted, then denied, permission to emigrate. The bureaucratic flip-flop left them with no possessions and no professions. Mr. Bortnik lost his job as an engineer and became a shoemaker, while his wife, Faina, went from dentistry to cosmetology.
They persevered because they felt they had little to look forward to in a country where opportunities for Jews were limited. Before he decided to leave, Mr. Bortnik once thought his years of service had entitled him to a promotion at work. Instead, the job went to a new man while he was told bluntly, "You forget who you are."
"Over here it doesn't matter who you are," he said. "If you are smart and want to reach something, you can. There, they don't want you. But they don't want you to get out."
The Bortniks lived in the Ukrainian city of Nikolayev, close by their parents. Mrs. Bortnik remembered hearing stories about her grandfather, who had traveled to America in the early 1900's with relatives and earned some money. He had managed to save enough to bring over his family, and he returned home with tickets in hand. But the Russian Revolution changed his plans, and the family stayed.
By the 1970's, Mrs. Bortnik knew she had to leave. "To live in Russia, you always have to remember you are Jewish. When you see that attitude coming from some person, it's one story. But when it comes from the Government, it's different."
Already a dentist working at a large medical center, she figured it might be easier to leave if she became a cosmetologist and worked in a smaller setting where there were fewer bosses to object.
The Bortniks and their parents moved to Tiraspol in Moldavia to be closer to Government immigration offices. In 1981, they got word that their exit papers had been approved. They sold their furniture and gave up their apartment, only to be told by an official that a mistake had been made.
"For that moment, we didn't have anything," Mrs. Bortnik recalled. "I told him I have two kids. How did he think I was going to raise them? What was I going to tell them, that we have a great Government? That we have a great country?"
The official reply: Go home.
They did, although they lived in an apartment they never furnished. To do so would have been acknowledging they were staying. Mr. Bortnik took up the unfamiliar tools of a shoemaker. "If you're an engineer, your hands are clean and your skin is so soft," he said. "When I worked as a shoemaker, my hands bled for the first year. It was like I cut my life for that country."
To survive, he cut off his thoughts.
"You decide to leave, you live in a bottle," he said. "Everything around you is not real. I cut off all the lines to that country. I just thought about when I could leave."
IN 1987, with glasnost in the air, permission finally came. Within a few months, a Jewish aid group helped them and their parents settle in Brooklyn.
The Bortniks have done modestly well. One daughter is in college and another is a computer programmer married to a doctor. Mr. Bortnik worked as a chauffeur and shoe salesman until he got a job in construction. He has a small company now, with two employees. After years working for others, Mrs. Bortnik wound up unemployed when her boss closed up her salon without warning. Now she owns a day spa with the grand name Faina Bor Spa Palace of Beauty. She works six days a week.
"We don't feel like we're from another planet," she said. "We live a normal life, like everybody."
That includes setbacks, like a delayed closing on a house. Small matter. They had a decade of practice before arriving.
"Only an idiot would think there would be no problems," Mr. Bortnik said. "But in this country, you can do something with these problems."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UKRAINE (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; NEW YORK CITY; MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UKRAINE (76%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES THIS DAY IN HISTORY (75%); APPROVALS (74%); DENTISTRY (72%); REFUGEES (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); IMMIGRATION (62%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; BORTNIK, GREGORY

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



291 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1877 words

HEADLINE: Shelters Improve Under Private Groups, Raising a New Worry

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
The first time Elizabeth Squires ended up at the Park Avenue Armory women's shelter two years ago, she found a place she described as forbidding, marked by discourteous guards, indifferent social workers and cold meals.
But when she returned last year, dramatic changes had occurred. The city had given up day-to-day control of the Manhattan shelter for single women and turned it over to a private operator. Security guards had shed their uniforms and their sometimes hostile attitudes. The accommodations were still spartan, with women given a cot in a vast armory hall, but counselors made themselves available every day, and the meals became something that residents like Ms. Squires actually looked forward to. 
 "Before, the food they served looked like worms had been in it," said Ms. Squires, 54, a scrappy woman who said that eviction from a Queens apartment led her to the shelter system several years ago. "It was hard getting used to the new people even though the old ones weren't that great. But they made good changes, changes for the better."
Changes like those at the Park Avenue Armory are happening citywide as the Giuliani administration takes the city out of the business of running shelters for single adults and hands the job over to private nonprofit organizations that many experts contend are better equipped to handle the homeless.
To date, the city has given contracts to nonprofit companies to run 33 of the city's 40 notoriously troubled shelters for single adults -- from the cavernous Fort Washington Armory in Washington Heights to the Sumner Armory in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, to the Charles H. Gay men's shelter on Wards Island.
The city turned to the nonprofit agencies in the 1980's after experts realized that the single homeless were not just without housing, but that they often had other problems that contributed to their homelessness and required support services. The nonprofit agencies, proponents of privatization say, are better prepared to work with the homeless because their workers are trained specifically in areas of mental health, substance abuse and unemployment, while the city essentially relies on all-purpose case workers. By this time, the city had already begun shifting to a privatized system for homeless families.
"I've seen some of those shelters with my own eyes and I welcome the change that they are operated under," said Joel Sessor, president of Partnership for the Homeless, a longtime network of private shelters that provides housing, job counseling and health services but does not run any of the former municipal shelters. "Historically, government has been the provider of last resort and it really showed here in the city."
But there is a downside to the transformation of the shelters, advocates for the homeless say. The city is allowing people to stay in the shelters for a longer time, to take advantage of the improved services, and as a result, the advocates say, there is less pressure to create permanent housing, the ultimate cure for homelessness.
Last year, 1,934 single adults were placed into permanent housing from the shelter system, a higher figure than in 1994 and 1995 but lower than the city's peak in 1993, when 2,351 people were moved into permanent housing, according to a report released last month by the Citizens Budget Commission, a government watchdog group.
Privatization, however, has increased the annual cost of shelter beds from $18,000 to $23,000.
"We like privatization, but it's not enough to go forth and privatize everything in sight," said Mary Brosnahan, executive director of the Coalition for the Homeless, an advocacy group that recently released a report on the city's privatization efforts. "They must redouble their efforts so people can transition out of a privatized system. People are not leaving the shelters because there is no place else for them to go."
The coalition's report faulted the Giuliani administration for cutting the budget for the city's Department of Homeless Services by $87.4 million over three years. The cuts, the coalition said, have come at a time when the number of single adults in city shelters has increased by 1,000 since 1994 to an average of more than 7,000 per night. With single adults and families combined, the city provides shelter for an average of about 23,000 people a night in large congregate spaces like armories and welfare hotels. Over the course of a year, more than 86,000 different people cycle through the system.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, in a pre-election discussion with reporters and editors of The New York Times, embraced privatization, arguing that the improved social services that result allow homeless people to become more independent.
The effort by the Giuliani administration to privatize the shelter system reflects a policy change that began in 1981, when Mayor Edward I. Koch signed a consent decree that made New York the first city in the nation responsible for the direct care of homeless people. Most cities rely on charitable and nonprofit groups.
At the height of the crisis, more than 25,000 people were crowded onto the drill floors of sprawling armories with barely enough room between cots for walking. Fights often broke out between shelter residents and guards. Substance abuse and mental health issues were not being addressed.
"I used to go to shelters just to make it clear to civil servants that they had to make sure people had cots, blankets, cribs and formula for infants," Mr. Koch said. "You had to do that often, shake up civil servants who had gotten lax. Religious and other private groups do well because they have incentives. They're not bound by unions or civil service laws."
The city could not undertake privatization then because of a lack of providers, Mr. Koch said.
But by the time Mr. Koch left office in 1989, families -- as opposed to singles -- were being moved from large open-floor shelters into permanent housing -- mostly rehabilitated apartments. Today the vast majority of the city's 83 shelters for families are run by nonprofit organizations.
In 1992, the New York City Commission on the Homeless, headed by Andrew Cuomo, now Secretary of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, called for privatizing shelters for single adults, urging an array of social services to encourage the transition into permanent housing.
The Giuliani administration has used the report as its blueprint, and dozens of providers have emerged, including the Salvation Army, Volunteers of America and the Housing Enterprise for the Less Privileged organization, which is headed by Maria Cuomo Cole, who like Andrew is a child of former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. Shelters have been downsized and upgraded. The Fort Washington Armory, which once housed about 800 men on drill floors, now houses about 200 men in small dormitories of about 20 beds each. Sixty-five percent of the beds in the adult shelter system get financing to provide alcohol and substance abuse treatment and employment services.
Steven Banks, director of the Legal Aid Society's Homeless Rights Project, noted that some of the open-foor shelters like Wards Island are still too large for even private agencies to run. He also pointed out that families still have long waits at the central processing center in the Bronx called the Emergency Assistance Unit, where they are evaluated before being admitted into shelters. Yet he also offers praise.
"The city's approach was to simply provide three hots and a cot without trying to meet the needs of homeless people to move on with their lives," Mr. Banks said. "They were simply warehouses of despair. Now, there is a much greater focus on providing the necessary services like mental health."
More than a decade ago, the East Third Street Men's Shelter in Manhattan was emblematic of all that was wrong with shelters. Scores of homeless men loitered outside the crowded building just off the Bowery. Employees were arrested for selling drugs.
Today, the shelter, handed over to Project Renewal, a nonprofit group, in 1994, is a tightly managed 200-bed site with substance abuse treatment and job training.
On a recent Friday night, dozens of men sat around watching a movie, workers dished out chocolate and vanilla ice cream and delivery men brought in orders of chicken wings. In the basement, men painted and shaped sculptures in an art room and honed computer skills in the lab. They could even receive hair cuts in a windowless barber shop.
The Park Avenue women's shelter, which houses 100 mentally ill women and has been run for 18 months by Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, a private charity founded in 1894, is among the best examples of how privatization has improved conditions.
Nancy Wackstein, the organization's executive director and the director of the Mayor's Office of Homelessness under Mr. Dinkins, said that when her organization first arrived the shelter resembled "the back ward of some mental institution." Workers spent days sanding floors, throwing out decrepit furniture and exterminating rodents. The women were skittish, angry and even violent because they were not receiving the medical attention they needed, she said.
The barrack-style sleeping quarters still exist, but administrators and other workers encourage orderliness, checking bags for contraband and garbage.
Most important, clinical social workers began arriving every day and a psychiatrist began keeping office hours three days a week. Security guards were replaced by program aides, who not only act as security but help distribute meals, remind women about their medical appointments and listen when they have problems, Ms. Wackstein said.
Before Lenox Hill took over, the television was the sole source of distraction. Now, the days are filled with aerobics, bingo, sewing and classes for people preparing to move into their own apartments. Instructors teach them how to dress when they see an apartment, and how to complete a lease and work out a budget in order to pay their rent on time.
Ms. Squires, dressed in a floral dress, a pink sweatshirt and dark sunglasses, talked readily about the different face of the Park Avenue shelter.
"When I was here the first time around, you could have coffee and stay around watching soaps all day," Ms. Squires said. "Now, things are better. You have stuff to do."
Despite such comments, critics worry that the comforts and greater attention will lessen the pressure to move homeless men and women out of shelters. The report of the Coalition for the Homeless said that more people are staying longer, leaving little room for newcomers. With winter just around the corner, advocates are concerned the city will be unable to provide shelter for all who need it.
Officials within the Giuliani administration respond that longer stays are a sign that they are helping people get better, which could help break the cycle of homelessness.
"The issue today is more than housing," said Gordon Campbell, Commissioner of the city's Department of Homeless Services. "We're attempting to understand the underlying causes of homelessness. People are staying longer in the shelters because they are receiving the help that they need."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Park Avenue Armory women's shelter has changed since the city turned over its operation to a private charity. The food is better and counselors are more accessible. (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; HOUSING WOMEN'S SHELTERS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (85%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (75%); EVICTION (74%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (69%); FAMILY (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



292 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: THE TRADE BILL: LABOR;
Labor Victory On Trade Bill Reveals Power

BYLINE: By JILL ABRAMSON with STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 11

 BODY:
The stinging blow to President Clinton's trade policy delivered by House Democrats reflects the growing political aggressiveness of the nation's labor unions, their ability to mobilize members and labor's increasing importance in financing Democratic candidates.
Of particular importance in the defeat of the trade bill on Monday, which was labor's biggest legislative victory in years, was an important shift in the Democratic Party's financial center of gravity. 
 Union money has grown increasingly predominant for House Democrats, whose financial support from business began drying up after Republicans won control of Congress in 1994. By 1996, contributions from labor's political action committees jumped to 48 percent of PAC donations to House Democrats, up from 33 percent in 1992.
To be sure, labor's money was not the only reason why so many Democrats joined the labor-led mutiny to defeat the President's efforts to expand his power to negotiate free-trade agreements.
Many Democrats were unhappy with the results of the North American Free Trade Agreement passed in 1993, and many voiced concern that the "fast track" trade bill did too little to protect environmental and labor standards overseas.
Labor unions began mobilizing against the fast-track measure last spring and waged an energetic pressure campaign, aimed at Democrats and Republican House members in districts with many union members. Union members showered members of Congress, especially House Democrats, with tens of thousands of letters and phone calls asserting that the fast track authority would be bad for workers. Labor's effort against the trade bill was joined by environmental groups, consumer safety groups and civil rights organizations.
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. went on the air in 20 key Congressional districts with advertisements opposing the measure in mid-September and had spent $1.5 million to $2 million through the end of last week, said Denise Mitchell, an A.F.L.-C.I.O. spokeswoman.
It was labor's biggest showdown with the White House since unions lost their battle in 1993 over Nafta. "We saw this as a battle for the soul of the country," Ms. Mitchell said.
After a decade in which many Democrats, including President Clinton, refashioned themselves as New Democrats, labor's victory complicates the efforts of some Democrats to be more business-friendly. Many Democrats joined groups like the Democratic Leadership Council, which receives money from some of the corporations that supported the fast-track bill. The council spent $200,000 on television advertising supporting President Clinton's trade policies.
The fight also unfolded at a precarious time for Democrats. The Democratic Party is $15 million in the red, so it is not all that surprising that so many Democratic lawmakers chose to stand with organized labor rather than with the President because they were mindful that unions had become the largest donors to Democratic Congressional campaigns and that unions also mobilized the most campaign foot soldiers.
"The Democratic Party is bankrupt, everyone knows that, said Thomas J. Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, "and the only money these guys can get is from the unions."
For John J. Sweeney, the fast-track fight was his biggest triumph by far since he took the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s helm two years ago on a platform promising to revive union power both in Washington and at the bargaining table. The victory was especially sweet for Mr. Sweeney after he lost a huge political battle last November: the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s $35 million campaign to help Democrats regain control of Congress.
"This is really a big win," Mr. Sweeney said. "We can't lose sight of what it was all about in terms of the economic vulnerability that so many people are experiencing with this recovering economy. That's where the White House missed the boat. Ordinary Americans oppose fast track. They worry that while the economy is booming most of the rewards are passing them by."
Republican House leaders, who supported President Clinton's position on the trade bill, were quick to explain their defeat by citing the clout of union money and they complained that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. threatened to withhold money from recalcitrant members.
But in reality, overt threats were not necessary. Most House Democrats are well aware of the fact that labor union political action committees have supplied their campaigns with a growing percentage of PAC donations.
Before the Democrats lost control of the Congress, business PAC's were stuffing campaigns with money, $25.2 million in 1993 and 1994. But in 1996, they gave only $16.7 million to House Democrats, while labor PAC's stepped up their giving, to $36.8 million in 1996 from $31.8 million in 1994.
"Money follows power," said Larry Makinson, deputy director of the Center for Responsive Politics. "When all that business money was coming in, Democrats were happy to be part of the country club set. Now they've come home to labor. With fast track the Democrats were reminding themselves where they came from since their new suitor walked out of the door with the Republicans."
Besides its debt, the Democratic Party was defeated and badly outspent by the Republican Party in major contests in Virginia, New York and New Jersey earlier this month. Although the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee is having a successful year, having raised more than $10 million, Democratic candidates are nervous about their party's ability to fully finance House contests next year in the mid-term elections.
Some of the Democrats' business soft money donors, the wealthy individuals and corporations whose donations fall outside the Federal election laws, have been scared off by the campaign finance imbroglio. Unions, however, have continued to give generous soft money donations to the Democrats.
Under the guidance of Tony Coelho, the former House whip and Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee chairman, the Democrats in the 1980's successfully courted business donors, using their chairmanships of major financial committees as a lure. Once the Democrats lost their majority, however, "the Coelho bubble burst," Mr. Makinson said.
Al From, president of the Democratic Leadership Council, said the fast-track defeat should make business donors reassess their strategy.
"The business community really has to think very hard about ignoring House Democrats," Mr. From said. "Even though the Democrats are in a minority, if business doesn't get every single Republican vote their issues can be placed in jeopardy."
While the Republican leadership asserted that Big Labor's strong-arm tactics were what doomed fast-track, labor leaders say fast track lost because of "Little Labor." It was not the chiefs, union leaders say, but the tens of thousands of Indians in Ohio and elsewhere who wrote the letters, made the phone calls, went to protests and met with their representatives in Congress. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. set up an 800-telephone number that union members could call to be connected to their members of Congress, the apparel workers' union ran ads in Spanish-language newspapers, and the teamsters broadcast anti-fast track ads on radio stations that truckers listen to. All told, members of the steelworkers' union sent 160,000 handwritten letters to Congress.
Many lawmakers who opposed fast track had studied what happened to several dozen Democratic members of Congress who defied labor and voted for Nafta in 1993, and lost to Republicans in 1994, partly because many disaffected union members did not go to the polls that year.
"We told a lot of Congressmen that this issue is very important to our people, and if you don't support us on it, that will affect the way our members feel about you next November," said Jay Mazur, president of the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees.
Union leaders sought to build on their failed Nafta effort, concluding, for instance, that they had to cooperate more with environmental groups and consumer safety groups to block fast track. At the farmers market at Embarcadero Center in San Francisco, the teamsters union distributed fliers stating that Nafta has led to imports of unsafe fruits and vegetables, and that the fast track authority would do likewise. Decrying Nafta's environmental effects on Mexican border towns, unions also held demonstrations with Friends of the Earth and the Sierra Club in a half dozen cities.
"We didn't want to talk just to union members, we wanted to talk to a broader audience to say that this is bad for families, even if your job is not on the line," said Steven Trossman, an anti-fast-track strategist with the teamsters.
Even as the union movement rejoiced over its fast-track victory, that success brings some problems for labor. Bruised and angry, businesses are is vowing to redouble efforts against the newly muscular labor movement and relations with the White House are badly strained.
Mr. Sweeney said he hoped to cooperate again soon with the President -- on a new trade bill more to labor's liking and on other issues. And while the fast track fight cemented ties between labor and many Congressional Democrats, some centrist and conservative Democrats, including Mr. From, feared that the fight would weaken the Democratic Party. These centrists say the visibility of labor's clout will push the Democratic Party further left, thereby alienating many Americans. And White House officials worry the party has been hurt by the fractures resulting from the battle.
Labor leaders say they warned the White House last August that if it submitted a trade bill they did not like, unions would fight.
But the White House rejected labor's pleas, fearing such a bill would not be palatable to Republican leaders.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The A.F.L.-C.I.O. president, John J. Sweeney, center, met with two other officials in the group, Ken Grossinger, left, and Gerald Shea. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A28)
 
Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Union Help" shows dollar amounts of donations to political action committees to the Democrats, during the 1992, 1994 and 1996 election years. (Source: Federal Election Commission)(pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: ; AFL-CIO (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ; AFL-CIO (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS; LABOR UNIONS; LABOR; ELECTIONS; FINANCES LABOR UNIONS (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: ABRAMSON, JILL; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; SWEENEY, JOHN J BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



293 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12
 
U.N. Readies a Move Against a Defiant Iraq
The Security Council, seeking to avoid a military resolution imposed by the United States, was poised to pass a resolution punishing Iraq with a travel ban and demanding that President Saddam Hussein cooperate fully with an international commission charged after the Persian Gulf war with monitoring Iraq's disarmament. The crisis began when Iraq ordered American inspectors on the team expelled. A1
 
Muslim Atrocities in Sarajevo
Witnesses in Sarajevo, along with previously secret court documents, revealed that Muslim militias and paramilitary units killed scores of Serb civilians who remained in the city when it was under siege by Bosnian Serb forces in 1992. A1
 
4 Americans Killed in Pakistan
Four U. S. citizens and one Pakistani were killed early today when gunmen opened fire on their vehicle in Karachi, the authorities said. No one has claimed responsibility for the killings, but they follow the conviction Monday of a Pakistani for fatally shooting two employees outside C.I.A. headquarters in Langley, Va. The State Department has warned Americans in Pakistan to watch out for possible retaliation for the conviction. A3
 
Russian Bond Sale Is Delayed
Gazprom, the giant Russian natural gas monopoly, postponed a $3 billion bond offering. The company attributed the delay to uncertain market conditions, but it has been subject to pressure from Washington for its role as a major partner in a project to explore for natural gas in Iran. The Clinton Administration was itself under pressure to impose penalties on Gazprom and its French and Malaysian partners for investing in Iran, which the United States accuses of supporting terrorism. A10
 
Affirmative Action Wins Abroad
In a decision that could affect affirmative action programs in all 15 European Union countries, the European Court of Justice ruled in favor of a law passed by a German state government enhancing women's access to public-sector jobs. The European Union's highest court ruled that preferential hiring and promotional practices could be used to correct earlier discrimination. A7
 
Violent Scuffle in Bethlehem
Israel opened a new fortified complex encasing Rachel's Tomb, a Jewish shrine in an Israeli-controlled part of Palestinian-controlled Bethlehem. A nine-year-old Palestinian boy was shot in the head and critically wounded by an Israeli soldier firing on stone-throwing protesters. A3
 
New Twist in Mexican Routine
Mexico's Finance Minister, Guillermo Ortiz, presented the new federal budget to his country's Congress and was duly applauded by members of the Government's party. This time, however, the lower house is controlled by an opposition alliance which has declared its intention to make broad revisions to the budget. Mr. Ortiz's proposed budget increased spending on health care and education for the poorest Mexicans by 20 percent. A5
 
NATIONAL A14-28
 
Resurgent Labor Being Felt By Democrats in Congress
The stinging blow to President Clinton's trade policy delivered by House Democrats comes at a time when labor's hand has been growing stronger within the Democratic Party. Labor's victory also reflects an important shift in the party's financial center of gravity. Union money is once again predominant, especially for House Democrats, whose financial support from the business community began drying up after Republicans won control of Congress in 1994. A1
 
The managers of many American businesses said the inability of Congress and the Clinton Administration to pass the trade measure granting the President broad authority to negotiate trade deals could hurt companies and the economy. A28
 
Powell Rules Out Campaign
Retired Gen. Colin L. Powell said he had no intention of seeking the Republican nomination for President or any other political office in 2000. General Powell said he lacked "the passion" for political life. A18
 
Doctors Endorse Evidence
A group of outraged pediatricians specializing in child abuse signed a letter released by the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of the Cruelty to Children, supporting the medical evidence in the prosecution's case against Louise Woodward. Ms. Woodward was convicted of second degree murder in the death of a child in her care, but sentenced to time served by a judge. A14
 
Election Fraud in Miami?
Florida State officials have confiscated 5,200 absentee ballots as part of their investigation of possible fraud and vote buying in last week's mayoral election in Miami. The investigation began with a tip last month that someone in the campaign of former mayor Xavier Suarez was buying absentee ballots. A20
 
Fighting a 'Bad' Protein
Studies show that new treatments for two completely different diseases -- rheumatoid arthritis and congestive heart failure -- may involve blocking a useful protein that sometimes turns disastrously bad. A22
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Burden for Homeless Care Shifts to Private Groups
The Giuliani administration is taking the city out of the business of running shelters for single adults and giving the job to private nonprofit organizations that many experts contend are more equipped to handle the homeless. But advocates for the homeless argue that improved services are allowing the city to let people stay in the shelters for a longer time, and as a result, there is less pressure to create permanent housing -- traditionally the main goal of the city's policy on the homeless. B1
 
School File Leaves Legacy
A thick file that teachers and administrators at the Children's Storefront School in Harlem kept on Sabrina Green provides a detailed account of how promising her life could have been -- before she was found dead in her older sister's apartment last week in the Bronx. The sister and her husband have been charged with manslaughter in the death of the 9-year-old girl. B1
 
OBITUARIES B8
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
ARTS E1-10
 
DINING F1-14
 
Zagat's Puts Daniel on Top
The latest edition of Zagat's New York restaurant guide was released this week and the top honors for food among the 1,933 restaurants surveyed went to Daniel, which edged out last year's leader, Aureole. F4
 
EDUCATION B7
 
Teachers Oppose More Testing
While a majority of Americans support the idea of national tests, most teachers oppose them. A survey this month by Phi Delta Kappa, an academic association, found that 69 percent of teachers oppose such tests. Many felt that their students are already over-tested. B7
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-23
 
Kodak Cuts 10,000 Jobs
The Eastman Kodak Company, which has been unable to sell enough futuristic photographic devices to overcome sluggish business for its film, said it would cut 10,000 jobs, the biggest layoff announcement this year by any American company. A1
 
Microsoft Fires Back
Microsoft portrayed the Government's recent challenge to the way it markets Internet software as a "perverse" attempt to meddle in product design, threatening to stifle innovation in the computer industry. D1
 
Mercedes Model Delayed
In a remarkable admission of a serious engineering error by a renowned German manufacturer, Daimler-Benz halted shipments of its Mercedes A-Class for three months while it refits the chassis to keep the new four-seat subcompact from flipping during high-speed turns. D6
 
Business Digest D1
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: A revived coalition against Iraq; avoiding adjournment blunders; another preventable death; bogus polls.
 
Columns: William Safire, Maureen Dowd.
 
Chronicle B9
 
Metro. Diary B3
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather C7

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (91%); GAZP (RTS) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); MEXICO (93%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GULF STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%); 

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (91%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); MEXICO (93%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GULF STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (88%); BUDGETS (87%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (87%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (87%); EUROPEAN UNION (86%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); TERRORISM (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BOND ISSUES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); NATURAL GAS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (68%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (66%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (66%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (66%); APPEALS (62%); HEAD INJURIES (60%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



294 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Don't Look to Israel for Help Against Iraq;
Pay the U.N. Bill

 BODY:

To the Editor:
President Clinton has called on the United Nations Security Council to respond with "unambiguous action" to President Saddam Hussein's defiance of United Nations authority to carry out weapons inspections in Iraq (front page, Nov. 10). It remains to be seen if Mr. Clinton will get the response he seeks. 
 American leadership and prestige in the world organization are at a new low because of the United States' failure to live up to its financial obligations there. If the United Nations is to serve as an instrument of American foreign policy, as Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright has argued, American leadership is necessary. It makes little sense to make that task more difficult by creating a financial crisis. If the United States seeks to lead the world in neutralizing Mr. Hussein's threat to world stability, it cannot treat the United Nations with disdain.
 
BENJAMIN RIVLIN
New York, Nov. 11, 1997
 
The writer is director of the Ralph Bunche Institute on the United Nations, CUNY Graduate Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FINANCES UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INSPECTIONS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); 

PERSON: RIVLIN, BENJAMIN BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



295 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: European Jobless Need Their Safety Net

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"The Jobless Are Snared in Europe's Safety Net" (Week in Review, Nov. 9) does an excellent job of describing Europe's quandary on unemployment. It might be inferred that Europe would be better off adopting the hire-and-fire system of the United States. 
 However, before the Europeans do that, they should ask themselves who is better off: the young American flipping hamburgers at minimum wage with no health insurance and not enough money for decent housing, medical care or transportation, or the young, unemployed European with guaranteed access to health care, decent housing and welfare benefits.
 
KEVIN TWINE
South Orange, N.J., Nov. 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (85%); MINIMUM WAGE (85%); NEWS BRIEFS (85%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (85%); HEALTH INSURANCE (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: TWINE, KEVIN

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



296 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 12, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: European Jobless Need Their Safety Net

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "The Jobless Are Snared in Europe's Safety Net" (Week in Review, Nov. 9):
While laws (even constitutions!) and union contracts enshrining job guarantees are a cause of European unemployment, your suggestion that those who have full-time jobs benefit at the expense of those who do not is false. It is the fully employed who carry the burden of the safety net for those who are not working or are working only part time. 
 The progressive income tax system makes this possible. Thus, net pay for white-collar jobs in Europe is lower than it is in the United States. Rather than have inequality of incomes, Europe prefers the equality of social guarantees.
 
SANDOR JOO
Greenwich, Conn., Nov. 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); INCOME TAX (53%); 

PERSON: JOO, SANDOR MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1997



297 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Advances Against Yen On Economic Doubt in Japan

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The dollar surged against the yen as Japanese stocks tumbled on concern that Tokyo would not soon remedy the country's economic ills.
"What's brought the dollar here is fundamental concern about the Japanese economic situation and the realization that the only thing left to do is let the currency weaken," said Seth Garrett, global head of spot currency trading at Credit Suisse First Boston. "The yen's move has been steady but unrelenting." 
 The Nikkei index of 225 leading Japanese stocks fell 2.73 percent in overnight trading, closing at its lowest level since July 1995.
The market slump hurts the yen because global investors selling Japanese equities often convert the yen proceeds to other currencies.
The yen's weakness makes Japanese exports more competitive, and exports could account for as much as half of the nation's economic growth this year, economists estimate.
Earlier this year, when Japan's stocks were climbing and the economy was showing signs of recovery, Japanese officials protested when the dollar rose to more than 120 yen.
Now, as the deepening crisis in Asia threatens to hurt demand for Japan's exports and Japanese banks stagger under the weight of bad loans, the Government may have little choice but to let the yen weaken, analysts said.
The dollar rose as high as 126.52 yen before settling in late New York trading at 126.32 yen, up from 125.03 yen on Tuesday -- the first time since May 5 that the dollar has crossed the 126-yen level.
The dollar pared early gains against the German mark after the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged yesterday afternoon.
While the move had been expected, it fanned speculation that Germany's central bank, the Bundesbank, may raise rates before the United States does.
"The Bundesbank has tightened and it may tighten again," said Steve Gallagher, an economist at Societe Generale.
Higher interest rates tend to help a currency by making deposits and bonds denominated in it more attractive.
In New York trading, the dollar settled at 1.7183 marks, up from 1.7077 marks. The British pound fell to $1.7033 from $1.7044. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); GLE (PAR) (55%); GLE (BIT) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); GERMAN MARK (76%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); BRITISH POUND (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



298 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
A Run on Coffee Stockpiles Sends Prices to 4-Week High

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Coffee rose to a four-week high yesterday as strong demand and delays in shipping newly harvested beans from Latin America sent United States exchange stockpiles to an 11-month low.
Stockpiles of coffee in warehouses monitored daily by the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange plunged 36 percent Monday to the lowest level since December 1996. The supply drain comes after heavy rain at Mexican coffee plantations because of Hurricane Rick. That delayed shipments from Mexico, the largest exporter of beans to the United States, just as roasters stocked up on raw coffee to process before peak winter demand. 
 "Look at the level of coffee stockpiles in warehouses: they are very low, and the crops are arriving here late," said Stephen Smith, president of South Futures Ltd., a coffee trading company in Miami.
Demand from American roasters has drained exchange stockpiles. They fell by 7,999 132-pound bags, to 14,302 bags, on Monday from Friday, the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange said. Coffee for December delivery rose 3.4 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $1.5965 a pound on the exchange, the highest closing price for a most-active contract since Oct. 15.
In other markets, gold sank to a 12 1/2-year low and wheat slid.
Gold fell as the Federal Reserve left short-term interest rates unchanged, amid few signs of inflation, while concern persisted that some central banks would sell more gold. Demand for gold generally rises in times of inflation.
Several central banks have recently announced plans to sell part of their gold reserves on the open market, increasing supply at a time of lackluster investment demand. December gold fell $2.20, or seven-tenths of 1 percent, to $308.40 an ounce on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest for an active contract since March 1985.
Wheat for December delivery slid 4.75 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $3.4475 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the lowest for a contract closest to delivery since July 22. American exporters in the marketing year through Oct. 30 shipped 13.4 million metric tons of wheat, down 9.5 percent from a year earlier, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); MEXICO (93%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: COFFEE, SUGAR AND COCOA EXCHANGE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); CME GROUP INC (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (91%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COFFEE, SUGAR AND COCOA EXCHANGE COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (91%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); MEXICO (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: COFFEE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STOCKPILING COFFEE (95%); COFFEE MARKETS (94%); FUTURES (92%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); COFFEE FARMING (79%); AGRICULTURE (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (75%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); WEATHER (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (71%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



299 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
With turmoil abroad, some wanted the Fed to ease credit.

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
WHEN the expected happens, markets are not supposed to react. And certainly not with the violence seen yesterday afternoon after the disclosure by the Federal Reserve that it would not change short-term interest rates.
That lack of action had been forecast by virtually every Fed watcher. And yet, within minutes of the announcement, bond prices leaped and stock prices sagged. 
 That divergence is interesting. And so is the fact that some traders seem to have been hoping -- or fearing -- that the Fed would do something. It appears that some traders now think there is a risk of the American economy slowing in response to events around the world. And so, whatever the seers said, the Fed's failure to ease credit by cutting interest rates appears to have bothered some traders.
In recent years, the stock market and the bond market climbed together. And when they suffered temporary reverses, it was usually on strong economic news that scared the bond market. But that linkage has broken down in recent months, and yesterday's moves provided further evidence of the decoupling.
To the bond market, an easing would increase economic strength, and perhaps threaten a rekindling of inflation. After all, the United States labor market is very tight right now, with unemployment last month reported at 4.7 percent, a 24-year low. So the Fed's inaction looks good.
But stock traders have different concerns. The Fed's meeting came on another day of turmoil in world stock markets, and the failure to act could be seen as an indication the Fed was not willing to do anything to stem that turmoil and its possible economic consequences. "They are worried that stock markets are saying there is a fundamental slowdown around the world," said Byron Wien, the chief United States equity strategist at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company. A Fed easing might help to restore confidence, some think.
The foreign turmoil has had a dramatic impact on Wall Street expectations regarding Fed policy. Only a few weeks ago, the general opinion was that if the Fed did act, it would be to raise rates. That made sense given the strength of the American economy, as was indicated by last week's strong employment report.
Now, said Bruce Steinberg, Merrill Lynch's chief economist, that strength "has no bearing on future policy moves." He thinks that the next move will be an easing, although he does not expect it until sometime in 1998, after it becomes clear the economy is slowing.
It is always risky to ascribe rationales to price moves in markets as volatile as the American stock market has become in recent months. Many seem to buy and sell stocks not because of any actual economic convictions, but simply in response to whatever the trend appears to be. And the sharp fall in American stock prices yesterday came on a day when many markets were weak. The plunge that began just after the Fed announcement came about half an hour after the Brazilian market halted trading for 30 minutes when circuit breakers went off with that market down 10 percent for the day.
In any case, the worry seems to be concentrated among money managers, not mutual fund investors who send cash to those managers. And there is no evidence of widespread public selling.
Still, yesterday the yield on 30-year Treasury bonds, at 6.16 percent just after the Fed acted, soon fell to 6.10 percent as bond buyers appeared. And the Dow Jones industrial average, at 7,520 just after the Fed move, ended the day at 7,401.32 as investors tried to reduce their stock holdings.
That has been the trend since midsummer. On Aug. 12, the 30-year Treasury yield stood at 6.67 percent, its recent high. And on Aug. 6, the Dow peaked at 8,259.31. Bond investors have done quite well since then. Stock investors have not.
Such moves are consistent with economic worries of deflation or recession. Either would be a boon to Treasury bonds, but would threaten the high levels of corporate profits. While there is a lot of talk about deflation coming from Asia as troubled economies and companies sell products at any price they can get, there could be an impact on American corporate profits even if the impact stopped well short of producing an overall decline in consumer prices.
It is remarkable to see traders worried about economic slowing at a time when measures of the domestic economy look generally good. This economy is less open to shocks from abroad than are most, simply because of its size and diversity. But, for now at least, it appears that the possibility of such shocks is worrying stock traders, and that some of them were disappointed that the Fed was unwilling to ease credit in the face of falling markets around the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MORGAN STANLEY (64%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TRENDS (77%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



300 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The Asian tigers may falter, but the Japan lion is the worry.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
BANKS, securities brokers and insurance companies, once too eager to cash in on booming real estate and stock markets, are awash in bad debts. While the economy remains in many ways sound -- the savings rate is high, unemployment is low, the work ethic is strong -- creditworthy businesses cannot borrow and a recession is imminent. Yet political leaders, buffeted by contradictory advice and compromised by financial ties to special interests, lack the will to act decisively.
Yes, the description fits Thailand, Indonesia or Malaysia. But the country in question is Japan, the ailing lion among a pack of faltering tiger cubs. And the consequences of Japan's looming financial crisis are far more likely to have an enduring impact on world markets than the travails of smaller Asian economies. "Comparisons with 1930 are not out of line," warned John Makin, a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute's Asian Studies Program. 
 While the world no longer views Japan as unstoppable, its current difficulties have generally been interpreted as no more than a rite of passage on the route to economic maturity.
But the Japanese financial industry is in deep trouble. Banks and insurers took a huge hit when the 1980's bubble in property burst and with the subsequent fall of stocks, which served as collateral for many loans. Hardly anyone outside the Government disputes that most banks, including some of the giants, are insolvent.
Much the same thing happened in Texas after oil prices fell in the early 1980's, and in New England in the late 1980's after real estate soured. In between, many savings and loan associations went under. Through it all, the American economy hardly faltered.
Why, then, have financial problems choked off growth in Japan for much of the decade? For one thing, the Japanese banks' net liabilities are probably a larger portion of the economy. "This thing has been building for years," reminded Steven Radelet, an economist at Harvard's Institute for International Development.
The United States is also concerned about the matter. Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin recently sent a letter to the Japanese Finance Minister asking that Japan's financial system be stabilized as quickly as possible.
The Japanese Government has been in deep denial. In America, regulators closed or merged lending institutions fairly quickly once they recognized the magnitude of the problem. And when the deposit insurance system ran out of money, Washington howled and hunted for scapegoats -- and then quickly coughed up the cash.
In Japan, by contrast, the Government has not been willing to bail out large depositors or lenders. "It's very difficult to get direct subsidies for anyone but farmers," said Gary Saxonhouse, an economist at the University of Michigan.
But oddly, the Government has been forthcoming with the indirect subsidies that have allowed the problem to fester. Regulators require pension funds to hold half their assets in bank deposits or Government bonds. And households have few alternatives to keeping their savings in banks. Mr. Saxonhouse points out that roughly 60 percent of liquid household assets are in banks in Japan, compared with about 25 percent in America.
This permits the banks to pay token interest -- and thus to stay open. But every spare yen is stashed in short-term Government paper, making it almost impossible for any but blue-chip corporations to borrow. "The banks are zombies," Mr. Makin argues -- lenders in name only.
For better or worse, this impasse is likely to be broken next spring with Tokyo's version of the Big Bang -- sweeping deregulation of the financial sector that opens the door to domestic and foreign competition. The interest rate that banks will need to pay to keep deposits is bound to rise sharply, most likely forcing the Government to acknowledge that the banking sector is flat broke.
Mr. Saxonhouse predicts a happy ending. Once the banks' problem formally becomes the depositors' problem, he predicts, the Government will step in to protect against a run on the banks and a Depression-style implosion of the money supply. And once the system is restructured, Japan will end up with leaner, more competitive capital market -- one in which lenders are less apt to finance speculative bubbles and more likely to serve small and medium-sized businesses.
Mr. Makin isn't so sure. "This is end game," he agrees. But the Government's record of delay and denial, he allows, hardly suggests it is prepared to manage the restructuring. That would require large public outlays at a time when the Government budget is deeply in deficit. Arguably worse, it would probably require the merger of Japanese lenders with the likes of Citibank or Deutsche Bank -- and a sunset to the insular, uncompetitive financial culture that has long been a source of pride to Japan as well as its Achilles' heel.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Niculae Asciu) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; REAL ESTATE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); INSURANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); SAVINGS & LOANS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ETHICS (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); POLITICS (71%); TRENDS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (68%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



301 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
America's Hollow Embargo on Iran

BYLINE: By PHILIP TAUBMAN 

DATELINE: TEHERAN, Iran

 BODY:
Anyone who thinks the United States is conducting an effective embargo of Iran ought to visit the Iranian capital. It is flooded with American computers, drilling equipment and parts for everything from trucks to tanks. Ask Iranians about the embargo and they smile. "We get whatever we want," one businessman told me.
The reality here could not be more detached from the debate in America about whether to penalize French, Russian and Malaysian companies that plan a large gas development project with Iran. The United States has so failed to enforce its own ban on trade with Iran that the notion of trying to stop foreign companies from doing business here seems laughable. Iran offers a preview of what may happen with the sanctions against Iraq if Washington cannot come up with a way to make them more acceptable to other nations. 
 The Iran embargo, as far as I could see during five days in Iran, exists mostly in the minds of Congress and the Clinton Administration. It certainly does not exist in one typically affluent home I visited, where the kitchen features new General Electric appliances, including a washer, dryer and a Profile refrigerator with a through-the-door ice dispenser.
Here is how easily the ban can be evaded. A trader in Teheran telephones an appliance company in the United States and says he is calling from Dubai, a small Persian Gulf state. He places an order for 1,000 washing machines, has them shipped to Dubai and then arranges for payment from a Canadian bank where the Iranian has opened an account. Since the goods are shipped to Dubai, American customs agents raise no objection. Once the washing machines reach Dubai they are transshipped to Iran.
I heard variations on this theme from Iranian traders. Some use middlemen in the Middle East, Europe and Canada. Some move their cargoes through Germany, others prefer Canada and still others use Singapore, Australia, Turkey and even Afghanistan, which is so chaotic almost anything can be smuggled across its border with Iran. But Dubai dominates the illicit trade, and its warehouses are said to be jammed with American goods. Banks in Germany, Austria and Switzerland seem to be the financial institutions of choice for laundering payments to American companies.
Some American businesses seem unaware of the ultimate destination of their products, but they must be the exception. In most cases it should be clear by now that many goods going to Dubai are headed for Iran. In the case of spare parts for airplanes, trucks, drilling equipment and telecommunications networks, the part numbers should be a giveaway because they can be linked to equipment sold to Iran either before the latest embargo or before the Iranian revolution in 1979.
Though the Customs Service is hampered by the innocuous destinations listed on shipping manifests, Iranian traders contended that bribes had been paid to get particularly sensitive items by, including computer equipment and spare parts that can be used to maintain military equipment and missiles. They declined to be more specific.
The only inconvenience of the embargo is higher prices, produced by additional shipping charges and profits extracted by traders who charge a premium for evading American law. As a result, lower-priced French, German and Japanese goods have become more popular in a market that was once dominated by American products.
Embargoes have no chance of success if they are not enforced. President Clinton looked decisive in banning all trade with Iran in May 1995, and Congress added a boycott last year that calls for sanctions against foreign companies that engage in sizable transactions with Iran and Libya. If Washington intends to exercise that additional power, it should first get serious about the embargo on American companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); CANADA (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (73%); GERMANY (68%); GULF STATES (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); AFGHANISTAN (56%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); CANADA (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (73%); GERMANY (68%); GULF STATES (58%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); AFGHANISTAN (56%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (69%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); SMUGGLING (64%); 

PERSON: TAUBMAN, PHILIP HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



302 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Emerging Markets' Slump Taking Toll on U.S. Banks

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
Rumors of the demise of the Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim Helu were greatly exaggerated yesterday, but it is a measure of the skittishness afflicting emerging markets that false reports of his death had the power to briefly disconcert traders paid to keep a close eye on the Mexican economy.
But what is very real amid this nervousness is increasing unease about the continued exposure of large United States banks to economic woes in Latin America and Asia. 
 "The broader issue emerging-markets problems raise is about the sustainability of earnings for banks and whether expectations for earnings power are too generous," said Judah Kraushaar, a bank analyst with Merrill Lynch & Company. "You feel a sense of being frozen. It's hard to know what the downside risks are because of uneven and relatively poor disclosure by banks about where their market risk resides. And there are businesses such as currency trading that could still do quite well."
Such uncertainty has dealt body blows to bank stocks over the last few weeks, and the pummeling continued yesterday. The Chase Manhattan Corporation's shares plunged $5.625, or 5 percent, to $106.75; Citicorp's shares dropped $7.0625, or 5.7 percent, to $116.375; the BankAmerica Corporation's stock sank $1, or 1.4 percent, to $69.875, and J. P. Morgan & Company's shares fell $4.6875, or 4 percent, to $109.375, all in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Those banks are, respectively, No. 1, No. 2, No. 4 and No. 5 in the country and each has substantial emerging markets operations. All of the banks declined to comment on any financial headaches they may or may not be experiencing abroad, though Chase is known to have suffered heavy paper losses trading in Latin American and Russian derivatives and debt.
Trading in Chase and Citicorp shares was briefly halted when the stock market opened yesterday because of imbalances in buy and sell orders. Trading volume for both stocks was extremely heavy. Shares of the Bankers Trust New York Corporation and the BankBoston Corporation, also major players in Latin America, fell 3.5 percent and 3.4 percent, respectively, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The Brazilian stock market plunged more than 10 percent yesterday, in tandem with the Mexican stock market, which fell 4.25 percent. Nerves were briefly frayed by the false report of Mr. Slim's death, reflecting the influence he wields in the Mexican business world. He is the controlling shareholder and chairman of Telefonos de Mexico and is chairman of Mexico's largest conglomerate, Grupo Carso S.A.
The Latin American selloffs were preceded by market drops in Asia, where the Japanese stock market fell 2.7 percent and Hong Kong's stock market lost 4 percent.
Investors' uneasiness about big banks was heightened yesterday after George Salem, a bank analyst with Gerard Klauer Mattison & Company, cut his investment ratings on Chase, BankAmerica, and J. P. Morgan to "hold" from "buy," citing the economic crisis in Asia. He retained a "hold" rating on Citicorp.
"The crash in Hong Kong established a new, more ominous phase of this problem," Mr. Salem said in a telephone interview yesterday. "I think this is going to be a two-to- four-year problem rather than a two-to-three-month problem."
Mr. Salem, who memorably went bearish on bank stocks a couple years ago just before a thundering bull run began in those stocks, said his downgrades were spurred by "how all of these emerging markets have congealed into one risk."
But Mr. Salem deferred to a higher authority when asked to elaborate on what might be some important differences among the economic problems facing Malaysia, Thailand, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Brazil and Mexico.
"I think it's better to ask an expert," Mr. Salem said. "It's not my area of expertise."
To be sure, global market downturns have resonated across borders and there is much to be concerned about if Asian or Latin American economies weaken further -- particularly as the United States economy and companies that are doing business abroad are affected. But some analysts remain sanguine, pointing out that the volatility could offer profitable opportunities for some banks.
"Frankly, what goes on in Asia in the short term is beneficial in terms of trading results and turns away a lot of the new entrants into emerging markets who thought there was limited risk," said Diane Glossman, an analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc. "There is absolutely nothing new in Asia."
Mr. Salem also tempered his remarks by contrasting the current uncertainties with the big losses that plagued banks just a decade ago. "This is not a solvency call," he said. "This is not the 1980's. This time the banks aren't huge lenders -- with the exception of Citicorp. What you have is a threat to earnings power in that part of the world."
For his part, Mr. Kraushaar said he now favored regional bank stocks such as the Bank of New York Company, the Norwest Corporation, and the Republic New York Corporation because they are "conservatively managed" and "have less than average exposure" to credit problems arising in the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (93%); BAC (LSE) (93%); 8648 (TSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GCARSO (BMV) (58%); BOLSA (BMV) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); SIC5047 MEDICAL, DENTAL & HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (93%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP (63%); GERARD KLAUER MATTISON & CO LLC (60%); GRUPO CARSO SAB DE CV (58%); BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; MEXICO (96%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); HONG KONG (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); CURRENCIES (68%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L CARLOS SLIM HELU (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



303 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Move Up As Stocks Take a Tumble

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
For the most part, Treasury securities again danced the dance with stocks yesterday, gaining as stock prices retreated in response to further erosion in the Asian markets.
Although traders were watching Federal Reserve policy makers closely yesterday, the decision to keep short-term interest rates unchanged for the fifth time this year was what most bond market participants were expecting. Short-term rates have not changed since March 25, when the Federal Open Market Committee increased the Federal funds target rate, which is the rate that banks charge one another for overnight loans, to 5.50 percent from 5.25 percent. 
 Kim Rupert, economist at Standard & Poor's MMS, a market research and analysis firm in San Francisco, said, "The Fed makes policy decisions on a risk-to-reward trade off, and currently the risks favor a steady stance."
The strength in the October employment report on Friday, which showed joblessness at 4.7 percent, a 24-year low, would have been sufficient for the Fed to push rates up, Ms. Rupert said, but global instability argued against it. Also, she continued, given the lack of domestic prices pressures and the belief that recent turmoil could slow growth slightly, the Fed can afford to wait.
Nevertheless, there is concern among some participants that yesterday's inaction increases the chance that the Fed is slowly losing its opportunity to slow economic growth before it accelerates further and causes inflation to gain a foothold.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 20/32 yesterday, to 100 13/32 in a relief rally, while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 6.10 percent, from 6.14 percent on Monday. On Tuesday the bond market was closed for the observance of Veterans Day.
"U.S. bonds are fairly valued at current levels and should continue to perform well as long as the Southeast Asia crisis is on the front pages of newspapers and continues to spill over into Latin America," said David Thompson, director of funds management and senior fund manager at BankBoston. "However, if the U.S. economy does not start to decelerate as it progresses into the fourth quarter and early months of the new year, we could face a different situation and market outlook."
Mr. Thompson who oversees investment management for $9.5 billion in mutual funds and collective funds at BankBoston, says the minimal risk to American bond investors is that foreign investors could decide to sell Treasury securities. Projected forward, the Treasury currently estimates its market borrowing needs will be only $20 billion in the first quarter, close to half a year ago, and will be satisified with bills and their regular biweekly two- and five-year note auctions.
"There will be an increasing scarcity of longer-dated paper for at least the next four months," he said. "Consequently, longer-duration bond strategies are favored."
Stephanie Davis, fixed-income analyst with Technical Data in Boston, said, "The Fed's decision to leave interest rates unchanged has provided the market with some relief for the moment." However, she added, "The other shoe will drop in the form of Producer Price Index and retail sales on Friday and the Consumer Price Index next Tuesday." In the interim, she says, look for interest rates to remain stable.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since July. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (56%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



304 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: Hearing on Hidden Fees for 401(k) Plans

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Hidden fees are being charged to some of the 401(k) plans that 25 million workers use to save for retirement, but full disclosure of fees would lead to lower costs, leaders of the industry said at a Labor Department hearing today.
Many business owners are unaware of all the fees charged by companies that invest 401(k) money and maintain records, said Ted Benna, the retirement consultant who identified the law's potential as a savings vehicle for the masses. 
 "Participants think they are getting a fund at a normal management fee. and then they find out they are paying" as much as 1.5 percentage points more than expected, he said.
Extra fees "mean that the magic of compound interest is working against us," said Stephen J. Butler, the president of Pension Dynamics, a Lafayette, Calif., consulting company. He said that the excessive fee problem was greatest at small companies.
Even many large employers do not understand how to compare the fees charged by competing mutual funds, insurers, banks and other service providers, said Kenny Lee Adams, president of (k)la, a San Francisco company that sells a system for comparing 401(k) fees.
Uniform pricing standards that would let workers compare 401(k) plan investment returns as easily as consumers can compare mutual fund returns "would be simple" to develop, said Matthew P. Fink, president of the Investment Company Institute.
But Lynn D. Dudley, vice president of the Association of Private Pension and Welfare Plans, said that requiring disclosure of specific fees would inhibit development of new 401(k) features and that disclosure of total fees was sufficient. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) INVESTMENT CO PLC (78%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (54%); ASSOCIATION OF PRIVATE PENSION & WELFARE PLANS (54%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (54%); ASSOCIATION OF PRIVATE PENSION & WELFARE PLANS (54%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) US 401K PLANS (95%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (95%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



305 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Fast-Track Falsities

 BODY:
The refusal of House Democrats to give the leader of their party "fast track" authority to negotiate trade pacts is disturbing testimony to the power of organized labor's campaign money -- and of flagrantly false rhetoric.
Opponents declared that their action would prevent President Clinton from entering into another pact as harmful as the North American Free Trade Agreement, signed with Mexico and Canada in 1993. After all, Mexico soon sank into recession and created a trade deficit for the United States. But Nora Lustig of the Brookings Institution shows that Nafta's impact on America has been trivial. 
 The Mexican economic crisis, not Nafta, created the trade deficit. The revealing fact is that Mexico's recession drove exports from Europe and Japan down by about 25 percent while exports from the United States under Nafta fell only about 2 percent. Contrary to Ross Perot's jeremiad, the number of displaced American workers has been small, and most of them quickly found new jobs.
Fast-track opponents raised the fear-mongering claim that trade with developing countries creates a race to the bottom for the wages of American workers. But American wages closely mirror American productivity. Trade cannot threaten productivity in American companies, so it does not threaten wages of most American workers. Indeed, history shows that trade boosts productivity, raising wages in America and, even faster, in previously low-wage countries like South Korea and Taiwan. The race, then, is to the top.
There is a legitimate concern that imports, though driving consumer prices lower for everyone, can whittle down the wages of America's least-skilled workers. But the actual impact has been small and there are far better ways to help the few displaced workers who are forced into lower-paying jobs than to stomp on trade and thereby make the entire country substantially poorer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS; LABOR ROLE IN POLITICS; FINANCES; TREATIES TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); POLITICS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



306 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: The Fed Holds Rates Steady As It Weighs Global Risks

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Torn between fear of incipient inflation at home and concern about unsettling financial markets around the world, the Federal Reserve voted today to leave interest rates unchanged and ride out the storm for a while longer.
The decision had been widely expected by economists and investors, who saw little chance that the central bank would risk upsetting the global markets by raising rates, even though there is mounting evidence that inflationary pressures are building in the American economy. 
 But it highlighted the delicate situation faced by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, as he sought to keep the long economic expansion enjoyed by the United States on track while also taking account of his vast influence over markets and economies in the rest of the world.
As if to illustrate just how volatile an environment Mr. Greenspan faces, markets tumbled once again today. Sharp declines in Asian and Latin American markets caused jitters on Wall Street, where investors appeared increasingly convinced that slowdowns in foreign economies would hurt profits of multinational companies and slow growth in the United States.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 157.41 points to close at 7,401.32. It was the steepest drop in the index since the 554-point decline on Oct. 27.
Although the financial turmoil has the potential to do the same thing as a rate increase by the Fed -- slow the economy sufficiently to keep it from overheating -- Fed officials have made clear over the last several weeks that they still view an outbreak of inflation as a real possibility.
Mr. Greenspan said last month that continuing declines in the unemployment rate -- currently at 4.7 percent, a 24-year low -- at a time of strong domestic growth could set off a process in which higher wages would lead to price inflation.
Many analysts believe that if the financial markets were calm the Fed would have seriously considered raising interest rates today, and could still do so in the next three months.
Still, Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues have also been keenly aware that the combination of falling stock prices, tumbling currency values and weak banking systems in other countries, particularly in Asia, holds risks for the global economy and for the United States in particular. Raising rates now could make the situation worse by pushing down stock and bond prices and further weakening foreign currencies relative to the dollar. Mr. Greenspan is to answer questions about the international markets from the House Banking Committee Thursday morning.
Even as the Fed's policy-making committee was meeting today, the stock market in Brazil, the latest nation to be buffeted by the round-the-world financial turmoil, was falling more than 10 percent.
"Against that kind of backdrop, the Fed doesn't have a lot of choice, and in that sense their decision today was not difficult," said Ian Shepherdson, the chief economist at HSBC Markets in New York. "In the longer term it gets much more difficult because they will have to take account of the domestic situation."
Despite some early warning signs of inflation, including a 4.2 percent increase in hourly earnings over the last year, the Fed has left rates unchanged in recent months because actual gauges of prices have remained stable or in some cases have fallen.
Some economists have even been making a case in the last few months that the real danger to the economy is from deflation -- an across-the-board fall in prices -- rather than from inflation. Their argument is built on the premise that the slowdown in the Asian economies, combined with global overcapacity in many industries, could lead to falling prices around the world.
Other economists believe that fears of deflation are vastly overblown, especially since falling prices are likely to be limited to manufactured goods, while prices for services are likely to continue rising. In any case, the deflation argument has so far received only a cursory hearing with the Federal Reserve, where the focus has been squarely on strong economic growth and the pressures that could ignite inflation in the United States.
"All the dangers seem to be on the inflationary side, not the deflationary side," Alice M. Rivlin, the Fed's vice chairwoman, said last week.
The Federal Open Market Committee of the Fed will next meet on Dec. 16, and economists said the chances of a rate increase then, so close to Christmas, were almost nil.
But economists are already vigorously debating what situation the Fed will face at its subsequent meeting, in February. One camp believes the global financial upheaval will slow the American economy enough so that no rate increase will be needed and perhaps a rate cut could be justified later in the year.
"There is as logical a case for a rate cut next year as for a rate tightening," said James Glassman, an economist at Chase Securities in New York.
The other camp holds that for the last year or two the economy has always seemed to be just months away from slowing to a more sustainable pace, but then continued to grow at a robust pace and to create new inflationary pressures. With unemployment low and possibly heading lower, consumer spending strong and business investment running at high levels, even a downturn in Asia and Latin America might not be enough to eradicate inflationary pressures in the United States.
"The Fed has erred on the side of caution up to this point," said Gail D. Fosler, the chief economist at the Conference Board, a business group in New York. "As we get into 1998, they may have to take a risk and raise rates to signal that they will take a stand against the inflationary pressures that are present."
Economists will be looking particularly hard over the next few months for indications of whether productivity -- the output of a worker in one hour -- is rising fast enough to offset the increases in wages. Corporate profits have remained strong enough this year to suggest that productivity continues to outpace wage gains, economists said. But with companies increasingly being forced to pay more to attract the numbers and quality of workers they want, it is unclear how long that situation will continue, they said.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks yesterday's S. & P. 500, minute by minute.
 
A slide in stocks, initially dragged down by concerns over a global slowdown, accelerated after the Fed announced its decision. Page 10.
 
To some stock tracers, the Fed's inaction signaled that the central bank was unprepared to do anything to stem the turmoil on world markets. Floyed Norris: Market Place, Page 10. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



307 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1789 words

HEADLINE: Building a Classier Image;
Las Vegas Hotels Woo Blue Chip Visitors

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev.

 BODY:
The newest way to make an impression on the garish Las Vegas Strip is through Impressionism itself. The Bellagio, a luxury hotel being built in a city known for its girlie shows, clanging slot machines and the Liberace Museum, will have its hallways graced by about $130 million worth of paintings by the likes of Renoir, Monet and Picasso.
Down the road, Circus Circus Enterprises, known for a flagship hotel that features $29 rooms, $3 all-you-can-eat buffets and trapeze acts high above the blackjack tables, is building a resort that will include a hotel managed by the tony Four Seasons Hotels Inc. 
 Las Vegas is adding a little elegance to its ebullience, a little class to its crass. The latest mantra here is go upscale: attract upper-middle-income vacationers -- not necessarily avid gamblers -- who might normally head for Palm Springs or La Jolla, Calif.; Scottsdale, Ariz., or Santa Fe, N.M.
Behind the move is a change in the economics of Las Vegas. In the past, rooms, food and entertainment were mainly loss leaders, sold cheaply to lure customers into the casino.
But as Las Vegas has broadened its appeal, the average visitor is dropping less at the roulette table. At the low-priced Circus Circus hotel, for instance, "A lot of people are sleeping there but not playing the casinos," said Glenn Schaeffer, the president of the parent company.
So he and other casino owners are trying something radical: to turn a profit on rooms, food, entertainment and shops. In 1996, these nongambling revenues accounted for 47 percent of the Strip's total, up from 42 percent in 1990, the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority says.
Still, the average hotel rate for all of Las Vegas has only crept up to $58, so hotel keepers think there is room to charge even more by making accommodations more luxurious. Higher room rates are also needed to recover the costs of the extravagant theme hotels now under construction, like the $1.5 billion Bellagio, which hopes to charge an average of about $165 a night, a new high for Las Vegas.
Risks abound in this strategy, though. Visitors may balk at high room rates if cheap ones are still plentiful, and giant hotels run the danger of becoming impersonal. Most important, though: Can Las Vegas absorb all these new rooms?
Las Vegas, of course, has been redefining itself for a decade.
In recent years it has shed some of its Sin City reputation and turned itself into a playland for middle-American families by building hotels with theme-park-like attractions -- erupting volcanoes, battling pirates and Greenwich Village street scenes. This attracted mainly low-budget vacationers lured by the inexpensive hotels and meals.
But the latest moves, if they succeed, will broaden the market further and help transform this desert hub into a more traditional resort, with golf, tennis, spas, ritzy shopping centers and gourmet restaurants.
The Bellagio is far from alone. The Desert Inn is just completing a $200 million renovation aimed at making it the first five-star hotel in Las Vegas. While most hotel-casinos require guests to run a gantlet of slot machines to find the registration desk, the Desert Inn, owned by the ITT Corporation, features a lobby five stories high, and not a bing or a bong within earshot.
The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company is entering the Las Vegas market, agreeing to manage a 526-room hotel in the new 640-acre Mountain Spa Resort being built on the outskirts of the city by Jack Sommer, owner of the Aladdin Hotel.
Ritz-Carlton and Marriott International, which owns 49 percent of Ritz, have also signed letters of intent to manage hotels to be built on the property of the MGM Grand. ITT's Caesars Palace, long considered one of the most upscale hotels, has just added a new, even more luxurious 1,200-room tower.
The new establishments are not necessarily aimed at the high rollers who bet up to $200,000 on a single hand of baccarat. Las Vegas already treats them very well indeed.
The Las Vegas Hilton offers high rollers free penthouse suites, each more than 12,000 square feet, with private pools and lawns, furnishings befitting Versailles, and tuxedo-clad butlers on duty 24 hours a day.
Nor are the moves aimed at families with children. While the building of theme hotels has made Las Vegas more of a family place, gaming executives -- perhaps spooked by the murder of a 7-year-old girl in May in a casino in Primm, Nev. -- now say that was never the intention.
"Every time I saw kids in Las Vegas they were crying," said Stephen F. Bollenbach, president and chief executive of the Hilton Hotels Corporation. Even Mr. Schaeffer of Circus Circus says: "We're not McDonald's that advertises to kids. We're Wendy's, where parents want to go and the kids can find something to eat." No, the goal is more upscale visitors, yuppies and DINK's (dual income, no kids).
The proportion of visitors bringing children, while doubling since 1990, is still only 11 percent, and that is why strategies are being re-evaluated. MGM Grand Inc. is cutting the size of its unprofitable theme park in half. It will use the space for the new Ritz and Marriott Marquis hotels, a conference center and a spa with six swimming pools, waterfalls, a river and private cabanas.
And food, often neglected in a place famous for groaning breakfast buffets and unlimited prime rib, is also getting ritzier. One pacesetter has been Rio Hotel and Casino Inc., which has used fine food and an all-suite environment to become one of the faster-growing properties in the city. Still, insisted the chairman, Anthony A. Marnell 2d: "Las Vegas is not trying to change its image. It's just addressing an apparent desire" of more demanding consumers.
Rio has hired well-known chefs like Jean-Louis Palladin, formerly of the Watergate Hotel. It spent about $400,000 to buy part of Andrew Lloyd Webber's wine collection when it was auctioned and added it to a large wine cellar run by a master sommelier from the Ritz hotel in London. Now, Rio is even thinking of opening a restaurant in New York.
Other trendy restaurants that have opened in Las Vegas in the last few years are Wolfgang Puck's Spago, San Francisco's Fog City Diner and Mark Miller's Coyote Cafe. Bellagio will house the first branch of Le Cirque outside New York.
As for high-end shopping, the Forum Shops, situated at Caesars Palace and developed by Simon DeBartolo Group, has been a big success since it opened in 1992 and has just doubled its size, adding retailers like Bernini, Emporio Armani and an F.A.O. Schwarz store with a three-story-high Trojan horse in front. Of course, this being Las Vegas, every locale must have a themed attraction, so statues come to life in the fountains, re-creating the destruction of Atlantis.
Some business executives here worry about becoming too snobby. "The danger is that Las Vegas loses the reputation as a bargain," said Ellis Landau, chief financial officer of the Boyd Gaming Corporation, which owns the Stardust hotel. "We still need that."
That, of course, assumes the upscale move succeeds, which is far from assured. "It's awfully tough to change your product image and move upscale," Craig Sullivan, the chief financial officer at Primadonna Resorts, said at the recent World Gaming Congress and Expo here. In an attempt to change its image, for instance, Circus Circus, whose stock price has been battered this year from more than $37 to around $23, is thinking of changing its name.
Even though business executives and higher-income vacationers might spend $200 or $300 a night on a hotel in New York or Los Angeles, that does not mean they will pay that much in Las Vegas, where perfectly decent rooms are available for less than $100.
Some of the new high-end hotels will have thousands of rooms, making it hard to deliver personalized service. "What happens is people are treated like cattle and the quality of the experience goes down," said John Koster, president of the Desert Inn, which has 715 rooms.
Air service is another bottleneck. While overtaxed McCarran International Airport is adding new gates, it is served mainly by Southwest Airlines and America West Airlines, discount carriers without much first-class or business-class service. Direct flights from East Coast cities are rare.
The biggest risk is whether Las Vegas can absorb all the high-class rooms and shopping malls. Las Vegas is in the midst of a building boom that over the next few years could add 20,000 to 60,000 rooms to the 104,000 already here.
Named for a resort area in northern Italy, the 3,000-room Bellagio, being built by Mirage Resorts and scheduled to open in the fall of 1998, will have a nine-acre man-made lake with what is promised to be a spectacular fountain show.
Hilton's 3,000-room Paris, to open in 1999, will cost about $760 million and feature a 50-story replica of the Eiffel Tower. In addition to its 400-room Four Seasons hotel, Circus Circus's $800 million Project Paradise will have its own 3,400-room aquatic-theme hotel-casino in which guests will be able to swim in a pool with sharks -- separated by an acrylic wall.
The grandest of all, if it gets enough financing, might be the nearly $2 billion Venetian being built by Sheldon G. Adelson, who made his fortune selling the Comdex computer trade show to a Japanese entrepreneur. It will have 6,000 suites and will be a re-creation of Venice, complete with canals and gondoliers who croon in Italian.
So far, the city has worked on the premise that supply breeds demand -- build it, and they will come. And sure enough, as the castle-shaped Excalibur, the pyramid-shaped Luxor and other theme hotels have sprouted one after another, the number of visitors has continued to rise.
But this year, Las Vegas is feeling the effects of overbuilding. In the first eight months of the year, the supply of rooms rose 10 percent, but there were only 4 percent more visitors. So much for raising room rates. Rooms for two in midweek are being advertised for $35 at the Frontier and $55 even at the relatively high-end Rio.
The Stratosphere, a new casino at the seedier north end of the Strip, built as a huge tower with a roller coaster on top, is operating under bankruptcy protection. Some other less spectacular properties are also ailing, and a shakeout is expected.
"We are beyond building spaces, we are building conversation pieces," said Alex Yemenidjian, president and chief operating officer of MGM Grand, which is controlled by the financier Kirk Kerkorian. "There will be eventually a half a dozen properties in Las Vegas that will command 90 percent of the public attention, and then every other property will be a dormitory."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Going Up"
In Las Vegas, Nev., where crassness has long trumped classiness, the new trend is to build luxury hotels designed to attract upscale vacationers. The hope is that they will spend more money on food, lodging and entertainment, even as they lose less money at the gambling tables and slot machines. Here are examples of these new hotels.
 
VENETIAN
 
Under construction, left
 
OWNER: The Venetian Casino Resort
 
DESCRIPTION: Venice in miniature, complete with canals and gondolos, it will have 6,000 suites and be connected to the second-largest convention center in the United States
 
ROOM RATES: $160 and up
 
BELLAGIO
 
OWNER: Mirage Resorts
 
DESCRIPTION: 3,000 rooms with upscales shops like Hermes, Tiffany and Gucci
 
ROOM RATES: $125-$350
 
(Photograph by Jack Dempsey/Associated Press for The New York Times)(pg. D1)
 
"Betting Less on Gambling"
Hotel and casino owners in Las Vegas are trying to attract more affluent tourists who spend more on hotel rooms, food and the like because gambling is declining in importance as a source of income. Graph tracks average Las Vegas hotel room rates and gambling revenue as a percentage of total tourism receipts, from 1990 through 1996. (Source: Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (91%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (99%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (99%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (91%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS (NEV); UNITED STATES (99%); NEVADA, USA (99%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (99%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; FINANCES HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); GAMING (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (74%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); RESORTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); PAINTING (72%); CARD GAMES (70%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



308 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Delay in Presenting Data Brings Attention to Program on Infants

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Public health researchers said today that the Clinton Administration had canceled a presentation of preliminary data suggesting that an ambitious Federal program to reduce infant mortality had fallen far short of its goals.
The preliminary data were collected for an evaluation of the Healthy Start program, which was begun in the Bush Administration. The Federal Government gives a total of $100 million a year to 60 cities and counties with high infant mortality rates. The money is spent on health care and social services, in an effort to reduce the rates by 50 percent. 
 Administration officials confirmed that they had told the researchers not to disclose their findings at this time but said the data were incomplete, so that no reliable conclusions could be drawn.
The data were to have been presented today at the annual meeting of the American Public Health Association in Indianapolis. The Healthy Start program is being evaluated by public health experts at Mathematica Policy Research, a social research center in Princeton, N.J., under a $4.8 million contract with the Federal Government.
Joanne Pfleiderer, a Mathematica spokeswoman, said: "The Government chose to cancel the presentation. We regret that it was canceled."
The authors of the study, listed in the program for the meeting, are Lorenzo Moreno, a demographer at Mathematica, and Barbara L. Devaney, an economist.
Dr. Claude Earl Fox, a pediatrician and acting administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, a unit of the Public Health Service, said: "We asked Mathematica not to release the data because the data are not complete. It's not an issue of trying to hide the data."
By ordering the researchers to withhold their data, the Government generated far more interest in the program than it would otherwise have received in Indianapolis.
Dr. Fox defended his agency's action, reported today in The Philadelphia Inquirer. "It's too early in the project to expect it to have an impact on the infant mortality rate," he said.
The data, for 1994, come from 9 of the 16 sites included in the evaluation. Melissa T. Skolfield, a spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services, said, "The Healthy Start program was just getting up and running in 1994, so the data are not very useful."
Dr. Fox said it would be "tragic" if Congress cut spending on the program because of the preliminary data. Other researchers said that while Healthy Start could do some good, the goal of a 50 percent reduction in infant mortality was an unrealistic goal chosen for political reasons.
In an interview, Dr. Fox said: "Reducing infant mortality rates by 50 percent is still a goal, but we are also looking at broader indicators of infant and maternal health. Do more women receive prenatal care? Are fewer babies born at low birth weight? Do children have a regular source of pediatric care?"
The infant mortality rate for the United States has been declining in recent years, but it is still higher than the rates for Japan and many European countries.
The gap between blacks and whites in the United States is as worrisome to public health experts as the overall rate. The infant mortality rate for blacks in the United States is more than twice the rate for whites. Federal health officials said they would disclose the data for 1994 when they had information on all 15 sites.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MATHEMATICA POLICY RESEARCH PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER (53%); AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION (56%); PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE (54%); HEALTH RESOURCES & SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (54%); PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MATHEMATICA POLICY RESEARCH AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION (56%); PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE (54%); HEALTH RESOURCES & SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (54%); PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIANA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; INFANT MORTALITY; FEDERAL AID (US) PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFANT MORTALITY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); INTERVIEWS (62%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



309 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Helen Church, 95, Nutritionist

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
Helen Nichols Church, a pioneering nutritionist who began her career telling Howard Johnson what to serve at his very first restaurant and ended it as the last word on the nutritional content of more than 8,000 popular foods, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Lakewood, N.J. She was 95 and had been the editor of Bowes and Church's Food Values of Portions Commonly Used.
It was Anna dePlanter Bowes, a Pennsylvania nutritionist, who first recognized that official nutrition tables listing the amounts of various vitamins and other nutrients in arbitrary laboratory portions of basic foods had little relevance to real world kitchen and dinner table conditions. 
 Few housewives, she knew, would actually serve, say, exactly 100 grams of lean meat. Some were known to mix several meats and maybe even some onions to prepare meat loaf, and others went so far as to serve their families elaborate casseroles.
With the assistance of Mrs. Church's husband, Dr. Charles F. Church, a Harvard-trained public health specialist, Miss Bowes in 1936 began publishing nutrition tables based on commonly used portions of a variety of prepared foods.
Mrs. Church was deeply involved with the project from the beginning, eventually becoming co-editor and succeeding her husband as editor after his death in 1976. She later recruited Jean A. T. Pennington, who has continued the project, which is now going into in its 17th edition and covers some 8,500 food items from basic fruits and vegetables to Big Macs and other popular prepared foods. A native of LeRoy, Ill., Mrs. Church, who grew up doing chores on a family farm (and never tired of telling her pampered sons how easy they had it), met her husband at the University of Illinois, where she received a degree in home economics.
She worked for a while as a clinical dietitian at New York Hospital, but after her marriage in 1928, she moved to Boston, where her husband was in medical school, and became the dietitian in charge of Mr. Johnson's first restaurant, in Quincy, Mass.
After a stay in Philadelphia, the couple eventually settled in New Brunswick, N.J., where Dr. Church became chief medical officer at E. R. Squibb & Sons, and he and Mrs. Church worked together on successive revisions of Bowes and Church's, spending countless evenings on the screened side porch of their home on Nichol Avenue going over columns of figures.
Mrs. Church also put her nutritional training into practice with a vengeance. An excellent cook, she was not content to serve her family precisely balanced meals.
As her 67-year-old son, Charles Jr. recalled yesterday with a decades old wail, "I had to eat peanut butter instead of candy."
In addition to her son, of Normandy Beach, N.J., she is survived by another son, David, of Berkeley, Calif.; a sister, Marjorie Whitmore, of Pontiac, Ill.; a brother, Sheldon Nichols, of Spring Hill, Fla.; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: CONVATEC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); NUTRITION (92%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAMILY (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%); 

PERSON: CHURCH, HELEN NICHOLS; THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



310 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seems to Rule Out Meeting Between Clinton and Netanyahu

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
The White House appeared today to rule out a meeting between President Clinton and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel during Mr. Netanyahu's visit to the United States next week, although American spokesmen took pains to say that this did not represent a snub to the Israeli leader over the lack of progress in Middle East peace talks.
"We plan to meet with the Prime Minister at some appropriate point, but I'm not aware there's any meeting planned any time soon," said Michael McCurry, the White House spokesman. "I haven't heard any concern from the Government of Israel." 
 The President does have plans to meet this week with King Hussein of Jordan, who was released on Tuesday from the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., after medical tests. That left the White House and State Department in the awkward position today of explaining why the President would see the King but not the Prime Minister.
They portrayed it as simply a scheduling problem between the American and Israeli leaders. "It's not a question of whether there will be a meeting with the President and Prime Minister Netanyahu, it's a question of when," said James Rubin, the State Department spokesman. "And so that's a scheduling matter."
The Israeli Embassy in Washington did not respond to calls for comment.
Mr. Netanyahu is to arrive in the United States on Sunday for appearances before American Jewish groups and has visits scheduled to Los Angeles and Indianapolis. Both the President and Mr. Netanyahu are scheduled to be in Los Angeles on Monday, with Mr. Clinton expected to leave there on Monday morning.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright is to meet with Mr. Netanyahu this Friday in London, where she will stop en route to an American-sponsored Middle East economic conference in the Persian Gulf state of Qatar that will include Israeli representatives. She will arrive in Doha, the Qatari capital, on Sunday and leave the same day.
Mr. Rubin suggested that the Secretary of State was a suitable proxy for the President in meeting with the Israel leader.
"Secretary Albright has been working on the Middle East peace process on behalf of the President," Mr. Rubin said. "And when Prime Minister Netanyahu meets with her, I can assure you, President Clinton very quickly finds out what he said."
The United States expressed disappointment today that Egypt and several other Arab nations invited to the economic meeting in Qatar had announced that they would not attend in protest over the stalled Arab-Israeli peace talks.
Today Bahrain, Morocco and the United Arab Emirates announced that they would not attend the conference, which was intended to promote economic cooperation between Israel and its Arab neighbors.
"Are we disappointed by the failure of Egypt and other countries to go? Yes, we are," Mr. Rubin said, describing the conference as "an important part of the peace process." He added: "It's important to keep it going even when the process itself is experiencing difficulty."
Even Israel has not said whether it will send a high-ranking delegation to the conference.
The Israeli Foreign Minister, David Levy, said today that Israel would be represented at the meeting, but that it was unclear whether he would himself go to Qatar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); QATAR (94%); EGYPT (93%); JORDAN (93%); MOROCCO (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); GULF STATES (77%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (60%); MAYO CLINIC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; JORDAN; EGYPT; QATAR; UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); QATAR (94%); EGYPT (93%); JORDAN (93%); MOROCCO (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); GULF STATES (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (68%); SPONSORSHIP (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NETANYAHU, BENJAMIN (PRIME MIN); HUSSEIN I (KING OF HASHEMITE JORDAN) BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



311 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Economy Hotel Is Planned On West Side by Schrager

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO 

 BODY:
Ian Schrager, the Manhattan-based hotelier known for his ultracool but expensive brand of hospitality with hotels like the Royalton and Paramount, plans to convert the current home of WNET-TV, Channel 13, on West 58th Street into a hotel that he says will offer a more downscale version of cool.
Mr. Schrager and his partner in the hotel project, Northstar Capital, took control of the property last week after months of complicated negotiations involving WNET and the building's two other owners. The partnership paid $49 million for the 475,000-square-foot, 25-story property -- by far the largest of Mr. Schrager's three New York hotels. 
 Constructed in the 1920's as a women's residence with an emphasis on fitness, the building still has its original basketball court and swimming pool. Mr. Schrager said the 1,000-room hotel, at 356 West 58th Street, would retain that identity, becoming a "modern Y.M.C.A., an urban spa in the middle of the city."
And more like a Y.M.C.A., the rates will be for the budget-minded. Instead of the $155 to $330 a night for a double room at his other hotels in Manhattan, rooms in the new hotel will run about $75 a night.
"He wants to do the Old Navy equivalent of the Gap in the hotel business," said Arthur Adler, a partner in the lodging and gambling consulting group at the accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand. "He wants to create cheap chic."
The renovation will be designed by Philippe Starck, the French designer who transformed the interiors of the Royalton and Paramount Hotels into strangely beautiful and minimalist spaces as familiar to design-conscious New Yorkers as to the well-heeled hipsters who stay there.
The building, the former Henry Hudson Hotel, has been the headquarters of WNET since 1973. It owns the first nine floors of the building and St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center had owned the top half of the building. Most of those rooms had been rented out to college students in recent years by a nonprofit housing organization. There are also more than 100 permanent rent-stabilized residents in the building.
For its part, WNET will use its nearly $10 million profit from the sale to move its headquarters, and 400 employees, sometime next year to 450 West 33d Street, at 10th Avenue. The public television station signed a 21-year lease on Monday for 192,000 square feet of space on one and a half floors in the building, which also houses The Daily News.
WNET said it would switch its television operations over to digital technology, buying all new equipment. "The lively real estate market for hotel space has provided a fortuitous opportunity for 13 at the very moment that we are facing the staggering costs of converting to digital technology," said William F. Baker, WNET's president.
The new office space will allow WNET to create state-of-the-art post-production rooms, while the building's roof will support a satellite antenna. "In a city of skyscrapers, it's no easy matter to find a new home that satisfies our broadcast requirements," said Mr. Baker, who added that WNET still needed to raise $10 million for its new digital operation.
The hotel deal came about after St. Luke's, which owned the 11th through 24th floors, signed a contract for $24.4 million to sell its space -- technically a single condominium unit -- to an outside developer. St. Luke's purchased those floors in the 1980's with the intention of housing nurses and doctors, but in recent years had rented the space to Educational Housing Services.
But WNET, which wanted to move anyway, had the right of first refusal on the St. Luke's space. Philip R. Weiss, a managing director with the Insignia/Edward S. Gordon Company, a real estate brokerage, said yesterday that he had approached Mr. Schrager this spring about the building. Mr. Schrager agreed to put up the money so that WNET could buy out St. Luke's. The station, in turn, immediately "flipped" the newly acquired upper floors to Mr. Schrager. And last Wednesday, he signed a contract with WNET to purchase its own floors for $25 million.
Like St. Luke's, WNET had bought its floors from Irving Schatz, a real estate investor, after renting from him for years. Mr. Schatz, in fact, still owns part of the ground floor along West 57th Street where D'Agostino is a tenant, as well as the 10th floor and the penthouse floor.
According to Mr. Weiss, Mr. Schatz has agreed to rent the 10th floor to Mr. Schrager on a long-term basis but will hold onto the ground floor. Attempts to reach Mr. Schatz by telephone were unsuccessful.
Mr. Schrager said he would "renovate around" the rent-stabilized tenants. He will offer to buy out some tenants, he said, while the others will remain. "It's a fact of life that when you buy a building in New York City, you're going to have rent-stabilized tenants," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A building on West 58th Street will be renovated into an economy-priced hotel by Ian Schrager. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (66%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (66%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WNET-TV (NEW YORK); NORTHSTAR CAPITAL PARTNERS PARAMOUNT HOTEL (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: WNET-TV (NEW YORK); NORTHSTAR CAPITAL PARTNERS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); RENT CONTROL (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (70%); BASKETBALL (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W; SCHRAGER, IAN

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



312 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Unanimous Security Council Tightens the Vise on Iraq

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 12

 BODY:
The Security Council, in a unanimous vote, made good today on its intention to impose new sanctions on Iraq, including banning foreign travel by Iraqi officials who do not cooperate with a United Nations disarmament commission. But Iraqi officials immediately said they would defy the demands, raising new questions about what will happen next.
The Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz, said in a statement in New York that the resolution was "unjust" and would be ignored. 
 "Iraq rejects and condemns the Security Council resolution and stresses that the resolution will not scare it," Mr. Aziz said in the statement, released here by the Iraqi News Agency.
However, the United States representative at the United Nations, Bill Richardson, said, "the message has been clear."
He added: "The Security Council has been united. Iraq must comply or face consequences. We are not precluding any option including the military option."
The Clinton Administration and the British Government take the view that the use of force is already authorized by existing United Nations resolutions. And they say that view is underlined by a provision in today's resolution calling for unspecified "further action" against Baghdad if President Saddam Hussein does not rescind an order to expel American weapons inspectors.
Russia has another opinion, however. Speaking to reporters this afternoon, Sergey Lavrov, the Russian representative here, said that any proposed use of force would have to be approved by the Council. France and China agree. All three nations have a veto in the Council.
In addition, the Russians and Chinese both raised the possibility that the Council would have to look anew at Iraqi sanctions and the work of the disarmament commission. China's representative, Qin Huasun, said in his Council speech today that "three feet of ice could not be created in one day of cold weather," suggesting that the impasse between Iraq and the United Nations had deeper roots.
In its resolution, the Council also condemned Iraq for threatening to shoot down U-2 surveillance planes, blocking inspections and hiding equipment during the current crisis and called Iraqi actions "a threat to international peace and security." President Clinton has said that the United States would view any attempt to shoot down a U-2 as an act of war.
In Baghdad, arms inspection monitors were again barred from entering sites they wanted to investigate because there were Americans on the team.
Mr. Aziz, who has been in New York arguing Iraq's case, did not ask to address the Security Council today, after it became evident that all 15 Council members supported the resolution.
While the United States and Britain did not get as strong a resolution as some Western officials may have initially preferred, the fact remains that the Iraqis have done considerably worse. A diplomatic gain made three weeks ago, when the Council was seriously divided over the travel ban, has been reversed, and Baghdad has suffered a diplomatic setback.
On Oct. 23, China, France, Russia, Egypt and Kenya abstained from support of even a watered-down resolution postponing consideration of the ban until April. That ban now takes immediate effect.
Reflecting the views of several smaller nations on the Council, Costa Rica's representative, Fernando Berrocal Soto, said the decision he had to take went beyond "legalisms." The Council faced a fundamental political challenge with implications for the future, he said.
Iraq's Foreign Minister, Mohammed Said al-Sahaf, went on the offensive against the United States at a news conference in Baghdad a few hours before the vote.
He repeated Iraqi threats to expel American arms inspectors and shoot at American surveillance aircraft. He charged in a news conference that Washington had stepped up military preparations against Iraq, and -- switching from English to Arabic -- he pleaded with Arab nations not to provide operating bases for the United States.
Mr. Sahaf, whose news conference was seen here live on CNN International, said there had been 984 violations of Iraqi air space since Oct. 29, the day Iraq announced it would expel American inspectors. He said the United States was flying not only U-2 aircraft over Iraq but also TR-1 spy planes, which were used in the Persian Gulf war. The TR-1 is a subsonic, single-seat reconnaissance plane that can fly as high as 70,000 feet.
Mr. Sahaf accused Washington of browbeating the Council and creating a "hysterical atmosphere" at the United Nations.
Council members have told Iraq, he said, "of tremendous pressures exerted on them, of threats they had received, even blackmail."
Mr. Richardson described Mr. Sahaf's explanation as "rubbish."
The resolution adopted today cancels until April the regular 60-day reviews of sanctions imposed on Iraq after the 1990 invasion of Kuwait. Until the United Nations Special Commission, which is charged with disarming and monitoring Iraq, certifies that the nation is free of prohibited weapons, a comprehensive embargo remains in place. It leaves the Iraqis permitted to sell only limited amounts of oil to raise money for food, medicine and other needs.
A list of Iraqis who will be barred from international travel will be drawn up by a Security Council sanctions committee, working with the Special Commission and its chairman, Richard Butler, an Australian arms control expert. The list will be given to all United Nations member governments. Iraqis on legitimate diplomatic missions will be exempt.
The resolution allows for lifting the ban if Mr. Butler reports that Iraq has given inspectors "immediate, unconditional and unrestricted access to any and all areas, facilities, equipment, records and means of transportation which they wish to inspect."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dozens of Iraqi families swarmed into the presidential palace in Baghdad yesterday to spend the night, and act as human shields against a possible military strike. "Down with America!" some in the crowd shouted. (Agence France-Presse)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) IRAQI NEWS AGENCY (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; RUSSIA; ; FRANCE; CHINA; IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (88%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INSPECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (73%); APPROVALS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; AZIZ, TARIQ (DEPUTY PRIME MIN); RICHARDSON, BILL (AMB) BILL CLINTON (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



313 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Cabinetry Factory Is Being Converted By Federal Express

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

 BODY:
Federal Express is converting a former cabinetry factory in Canarsie into its largest distribution center in Brooklyn, a further sign of the transformation of much of the city's industrial base from manufacturing into warehousing and shipping.
The overnight delivery company, based in Memphis, will open the center in a 170,000-square-foot building at 107-23 Farragut Road, along the industrial fringes of the Canarsie and New Lots neighborhoods. 
 Federal Express, which will lease the building from Cargex Properties of Manchester, N.H., now operates a distribution plant in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, in addition to locations in Maspeth and at Kennedy International Airport in Queens, said the company's broker, Barry Rosner of Williams Real Estate Company.
Federal Express said the new center would employ up to 175 people when it opens next June, many of them transferred from Sunset Park.
The new distribution center will be in the Flatlands Industrial Park, a 100-acre project developed by the Rentar Development Corporation on city-owned land, beginning in 1967. Felice Bassin, senior vice president of Rentar, said all but two manufacturers have left the park. Laird Plastics and Arrow Lock Manufacturing Company are all that remain.
Still, the industrial park is fully occupied, Ms. Bassin said, because of the arrival of numerous distributors and service and shipping companies.
The Federal Express building is part of the trend. Cargex Properties bought the building for $3.9 million from Jafci Management, headed by Joseph and Frank Ingarra. The Ingarras also ran the defunct Duralab Equipment Corporation, which made metal cabinets and countertops for health care, pharmaceutical and scientific companies.
Moshe Siegel bought Duralab's assets at a bankruptcy auction in June.

GRAPHIC: Map showing the Federal Express site: A factory site is to become a Federal Express distribution center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3429 HARDWARE, NEC (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EXPRESS CO ARROW LOCK MANUFACTURING CO (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EXPRESS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRENDS (74%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); AUCTIONS (70%); AIRPORTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



314 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Dow Falls 157 Points After Declines Overseas
The fallout from a worldwide slide in share prices continued to rattle stock markets in the United States. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 157.41 points, or 2.08 percent, at 7,401.32, after bigger declines in some overseas markets.
Even the Federal Reserve's decision not to raise interest rates -- which typically would have been seen as a positive sign because it could aid economic growth -- failed to start a rally. Page D10. 

The stocks of big American banks like Chase Manhattan and Citicorp were among the biggest decliners -- dropping 5 percent and 5.7 percent, respectively -- because of worries about their overseas exposure. D4.
 
Brazilian stocks plummeted more than 10 percent, continuing a selloff in which the country's market has lost most of its gains for the year. D10.
 
Kmart President to Step Down
Warren Flick, who as president and chief operating officer of Kmart has been credited with helping improve the troubled retailer's merchandise strategy, will retire after only two years at the company, for medical reasons. D6.
 
Caspian Oil Flows to the West
In Azerbaijan, foreign oilmen and regional leaders celebrated the start of the first direct flow of crude oil from the Caspian Sea to the West since the breakup of the Soviet Union. It signaled an initial triumph in a three-year United States-backed effort to break Russia's blockade of energy exports from the former Caspian republics. D2.
 
Big Theater Chain In Deal to Be Sold
Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst, the Dallas investment firm, agreed to buy United Artists Theater Group, the nation's second-largest cinema chain, with nearly 2,200 screens, for $300 million. The deal for United Artists, a company descended from a Hollywood studio founded by silent-screen stars more than 70 years ago, reflects the rapid consolidation in the theater business. D9.
 
Bond Prices Rise
Prices of Treasury securities climbed, as stock prices retreated and investors looked for a safe haven. The yield on the 30-year bond fell to 6.10 percent from 6.14. D17.
 
Dollar Higher Against the Yen
The dollar surged against the yen, settling at 126.32 to the dollar, on concern about the Japanese economy and Tokyo's slumping stock market. D8.
 
Coffee Futures Prices Climb
Coffee futures prices rose to a four-week high, with demand strong and Latin American shipments delayed. D8.
 
Undisclosed 401(k) Costs
Some of the 401(k) plans that 25 million workers use to save for retirement are charged hidden fees by companies that invest the money and maintain records, industry experts said at a Labor Department hearing. Full disclosure of fees would lead to lower costs, they added. D4.
 
S.E.C. Cites Lack of Disclosure
Peter R. DeGeorge, chairman of a small company in the home-building business, has agreed to pay almost $300,000 to settle a Federal complaint that he secretly used company money for his own benefit, the S.E.C. said. The company failed to tell shareholders that it had spent more than $300,000 to market a product called Nutrapro, the Fat Loss Coach, which Mr. DeGeorge owned with a friend, the S.E.C. said. D6.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,401.32, down 157.41
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.10%, down 0.04
The Dollar -- 126.32 yen, up 1.29
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
U.S. Productivity
 3d Qtr. figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +2.9%
 
Graphs: Chase and Citicorp share prices for last six days..

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (66%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (66%); 

COMPANY: HM CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (66%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (66%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); FUTURES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); US 401K PLANS (87%); MOVIE THEATERS (86%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); COFFEE MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COFFEE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); EURO (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RETAILERS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); THEATER COMPANIES (64%); PERSONAL FINANCE (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); THEATER (50%); 

PERSON: PETER R DEGEORGE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



315 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: F.B.I. Men Sent to Karachi To Investigate the Slaying

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Federal counterterrorism officials said today that they had no hard evidence to link the killing of four Americans in Karachi to a Pakistani immigrant's conviction, 28 hours earlier, on charges of murdering two Central Intelligence Agency employees in 1993.
But suspicion was strong enough that the Federal Bureau of Investigation dispatched a team of agents to Karachi today. Their orders are to gather evidence, not to conduct a full-scale terrorism investigation, because Attorney General Janet Reno has not certified that the slaying of the four men and their Pakistani driver was an act of terrorism. 
 They were told to proceed cautiously. "There is a fear" that they might be in danger of falling into a trap set to avenge the conviction of the Pakistani immigrant, Mir Amal Kansi, one Government official said.
"The fear is that the idea behind the shooting was to lure the F.B.I. to Pakistan and attack them -- that they will target the F.B.I. for snatching Kansi," said the official, who spoke on condition that he not be identified by name or agency.
F.B.I. agents, working with C.I.A. officers and State Department officials, arrested Mr. Kansi in Pakistan five months ago after a four-and-a-half-year manhunt. They flew him to a Virginia jail without a formal hearing after the arrest, which touched off anti-American protests in several Pakistani cities, including Karachi.
The attack reverberated into the Virginia courthouse where the jurors who convicted Mr. Kansi will soon begin weighing whether to impose a death sentence.
This morning, Mr. Kansi's lawyers sought a mistrial, asserting that jurors were terrified by the killings. The judge in the case denied the motion, saying he saw no sign the jurors were shaken. He ordered them sequestered tonight to shield them from news of the killings. He previously ordered that the jurors' names and addresses be kept secret permanently.
Counterterrorism officials said today it was not immediately clear why the car carrying four American oil-company contractors was chosen as a target by the gunmen in Karachi. One said the gunmen might have picked "a random opportunity to go after what looked like Americans."
In the five months since Mr. Kansi's arrest, Americans citizens in Pakistan have received several warnings, official and unofficial, to look out for their safety.
In June some leading political figures in Pakistan, including Gen. Mizra Aslam Beg, the former army Chief of Staff, warned that the arrest and extradition of Mr. Kansi would ignite anti-American violence comparable to the street protests in Iran in 1979.
In October, after the particularly brutal slaying of five Iranians in Pakistan's old capital of Rawalpindi, the State Department warned American citizens in the country to "exercise extreme caution concerning personal security."
And on Monday night -- Tuesday morning in Pakistan -- the State Department issued a worldwide warning to "Americans traveling abroad" that "the potential exists for retaliation by Kansi's sympathizers." That warning was based on common sense rather than a concrete threat, a State Department official said today.
News of the conviction spread throughout Pakistan on Tuesday. The attack took place about 8 A.M. today in Karachi, about 28 hours after the jurors in Virginia returned their guilty verdict.
Political tensions and anti-American feelings are high in parts of the Islamic world, fueled by the standoff between Iraq and the United Nations and by the deterioration of peace negotiations in the Middle East, as well as the conviction in the C.I.A. case, Government officials said.
They said unspecified threats have been made against the dwindling number of countries scheduled to attend the American-sponsored economic conference scheduled for next week in the Persian Gulf emirate of Qatar.
Many countries, including Egypt, are boycotting the conference -- intended to promote business ties between Arab nations and Israel -- to protest the near-collapse of peace talks.
Secretary of State Madeline K. Albright said today that her plans to attend the Qatar conference and travel to Pakistan next week were unchanged. She said the United States "will leave no stone unturned until we find the perpetrators of this horrible crime."
The killings in Karachi appear to be the deadliest politically motivated attack against American civilians overseas in two years, United States counterterrorism officials said today.
Not since four American contractors lost their lives in a still-unsolved bombing in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, on Nov. 13, 1995, have so many United States civilians been killed in an attack that appeared to be politically motivated, the officials said.
Government officials pointed out today that the killings bore an outward resemblance to the slaying on March 9, 1995, of two Americans driving to work at the United States Consulate in Karachi. That crime is also unsolved.
Jackie Van Landingham, a secretary, and Gary Durrell, a communications specialist, were killed six weeks after F.B.I. agents in Pakistan arrested Ramzi Ahmed Yousef -- the man convicted today of masterminding the World Trade Center bombing in 1993.
On the record, Government officials said no hard facts conclusively linked the latest shooting to Mr. Kansi's conviction. "We do not have direct evidence that links those two," said the White House spokesman, Michael D. McCurry.
But counterterrorism officials in Washington and the police in Karachi agree that there appears to be a strong circumstantial connection.
The jurors who convicted Mr. Kansi heard medical testimony today, presented by defense lawyers seeking to persuade them not to impose a death sentence in the penalty phase of the state court trial. The testimony suggested that Mr. Kansi's brain was damaged, impairing his ability to think clearly.
The prosecutors who won the verdict against Mr. Kansi on Monday presented testimony strongly suggesting that his motivation for killing the two C.I.A. employees was anger at United States foreign policy in the Middle East.
No evidence at the trial showed that Mr. Kansi was a member of any organized group. His case was conducted as a murder pure and simple, not a matter of terrorism.
But one of the F.B.I. agents who arrested Mr. Kansi, Bradley J. Garrett, testified that the defendant had told him he was particularly furious over the bombing of Iraq in the Persian Gulf war, the treatment of Palestinians by Israel and the perceived power of the United States and the C.I.A. over Islamic countries like Pakistan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (93%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; KARACHI (PAKISTAN); LANGLEY (VA); UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (92%); TERRORISM (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); SENTENCING (79%); EVIDENCE (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); MISTRIAL (76%); JUDGES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); ARMIES (69%); MURDER (58%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; KANSI, MIR AMAL JANET RENO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



316 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
The New American Politics

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Well, I guess it's official now: America has a four-party system.
That's the most important lesson to come out of Monday's decision by Congressional Democrats to reject President Clinton's request for "fast track" authority to sign more international free-trade agreements. I see a silver lining in what Congress did, even though it was harebrained. Maybe now at least the American public, and the business community, will fully understand what politics is increasingly about in this country, and will focus on which of America's four parties they want to join. 
 Me, I'm an Integrationist-Social-Safety-Netter. How about you?
To figure out which party you're in let me again offer the Friedman matrix of globalization politics. Take a piece of paper and draw a line across the middle from east to west. This is the globalization line, where you locate how you feel about the way in which technology and open markets are combining to integrate more and more of the world. At the far right end of this line are the Integrationists. These are people who believe that freer trade and integration are either inevitable or good; they want to promote more trade agreements and Internet connections from one end of the world to the other, 24 hours a day.
Next go to the far left end of this line. These are the Separatists. These are people who believe free trade and technological integration are neither good nor inevitable; they want to stop them in their tracks. So first locate yourself somewhere on this line between Separatists and Integrationists.
Now draw another line from north to south through the middle of the globalization line. This is the distribution line. It defines what you believe should go along with globalization to cushion its worst social, economic and environmental impacts. At the southern end of this line are the Social-Safety-Netters. These are people who believe that we need to package global integration with programs that will assist the "know-nots" and "have-nots," who lack the skills to take advantage of the new economy or who get caught up in the job-churning that goes with globalization and are unemployed or driven into poorer-paying jobs. The Safety-Netters also want programs to improve labor and environmental standards in developing countries rushing headlong into the global economy.
At the northern tip of this distribution line are the Let-Them-Eat-Cakers. These are people who believe that globalization is winner-take-all, loser-take-care-of-yourself.
Now everyone in the fast-track debate is in my matrix: Bill Clinton is an Integrationist-Social-Safety-Netter. Newt Gingrich is an Integrationist-Let-Them-Eat-Caker. Dick Gephardt is a Separatist-Social-Safety-Netter and Ross Perot is a Separatist-Let-Them-Eat-Caker. That's why Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gingrich are allies on free trade but opponents on social welfare, and why Mr. Gephardt and Mr. Perot are allies against more free trade, but opponents on social welfare.
As I said, I'm an Integrationist-Social-Safety-Netter. I believe that the technologies weaving the world more tightly together cannot be stopped and the integration of markets can be reversed only at a very, very high cost. Bill Clinton is right about that and Dick Gephardt and the unions are wrong.
But Mr. Gephardt and the unions are right that globalization is as creatively destructive as the earlier versions of capitalism, which destroyed feudalism and Communism. With all its positives, globalization does churn new jobs and destroy old ones, it does widen gaps between those with knowledge skills and those without them, it does weaken bonds of community. And the Clinton team, the business community and all the workers already benefiting from the information economy never took these dark sides seriously enough.
One hopes they now realize that this is one of the most fundamental issues -- maybe the most fundamental issue -- in American politics. You can't just give a speech about it one month before the vote, you can't just have your company buy an ad supporting it the day before the vote, you can't just summon a constituency for it on the eve of the vote. You have to build a real politics of Integrationist-Social-Safety-Nettism -- a politics that can show people the power and potential of global integration, while taking seriously their needs for safety nets to protect them along the way. Build it and they will come.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (67%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



317 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: In Letter, Rubin Warns Japan It Must Bolster Limp Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 12

 BODY:
In another sign of Washington's concern about an escalation of the financial crisis in Asia, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin wrote a private letter to his Japanese counterpart late last week warning that the health of Japan's banking system was deeply imperiled and urging strong action to spur the Japanese economy.
Details of the letter have leaked out in both Japan and the United States in recent days, though the Treasury Department, citing the traditional confidentiality of correspondence between finance ministers, has declined to release the text. 
 Reports about the letter's content appear to reflect the Clinton Administration's fears that the choking off of Japan's long-delayed economic recovery, worsened by a sharp fall in the Japanese stock market, could set off a crisis like the one that moved from the markets of Southeast Asia to those of New York and Latin America in the last month.
Mr. Rubin's letter, as described by people who have seen its content, apparently does not directly refer to the weakening Japanese yen, which makes Japanese goods more affordable overseas. The yen fell today to 126.32 yen to the dollar, a six-month low. But Mr. Rubin repeated his warning that Japanese officials should not be tempted to export their way out of their troubles -- a move that would greatly increase America's trade deficit.
It is unclear precisely what words Mr. Rubin used. Still, he has often said publicly that Japan's recovery should be fueled by "domestic demand-led growth."
While Mr. Rubin's letter was directed at Japan, it is increasingly clear that the Administration's immediate worry these days centers on what Japan might do in response to a potential financial collapse of South Korea, Japan's closest neighbor.
The South Korean currency has plummeted in recent weeks, corporate bankruptcies are spreading, and its banks are teetering under the weight of bad loans that many experts think vastly exceed the banks' corporate equity. In recent days, officials in Washington and Tokyo have made little secret of their concern that a free fall in the South Korean currency could put pressure on Japan to let the yen fall as well.
South Korea is one of Japan's fiercest regional competitors, and American officials worry that Japanese industry may urge the Government to make sure that South Korea's devaluation does not undermine Japanese businesses by making Japanese exports less competitive than South Korean ones.
"There's a potential here for an enormous train wreck," one senior Administration official said last week. "It's not clear, however, that there is much we could do to prevent it."
The immediate result, American officials think, could be a huge rise in the American trade deficit with Asia next year. One leading trade economist, David Hale of the Zurich Insurance Group, estimated recently that America's trade deficit with the world could expand to $250 billion to $300 billion by early 1999, up from $192 billion last year.
But the trade imbalance could rank among the least of the problems. Japanese banks, securities houses and insurance firms have struggled for several years because of the implosion of the Japanese real estate market and the fall of the stock market. They are particularly vulnerable now because they are also exposed to enormous losses in Southeast Asia. A collapse in South Korea could lead to a new round of trouble across the Sea of Japan.
Japan and the United States could also come under great pressure to engineer a South Korean aid package, though the Korean finance ministry, in a long and defensive statement issued today, insisted that it would need no outside help. To compound matters, South Korea is in the middle of a hard-fought presidential election campaign in which the ruling party could lose power for the first time in modern Korean history. In the midst of that campaign, the Government is reluctant to seek aid or take austerity measures.
Economists in the United States and Europe are clearly unconvinced that South Korea can make it on its own. "The U.S. will probably have to play a dominant role in a Korean aid package because it is difficult to imagine Government in either Seoul or Tokyo accepting one which placed a major responsibility on Japan," Mr. Hale wrote recently. But that could prove politically impossible in Washington, where Congress balked two years ago at approving a bailout of Mexico. South Korea's status as a key American military ally in Asia might not be enough to sway those in Congress who think the United States should not put money at risk rescuing foreign countries, even if the real purpose is to stabilize the world economy.
Letters between Mr. Rubin and Hiroshi Mitsuzuka, his Tokyo counterpart, are not unusual, but this one comes at an extraordinarily sensitive time. It is unclear why Japanese officials first leaked some of the content of the letter to Mr. Mitsuzuka, a longtime Liberal Democratic Party politician who several years ago served as Japan's trade minister.
They could have been paving the way for the release of a Japanese fiscal stimulus package next week. But it is also possible that Japanese officials are seeking to establish that the country is facing pressure from abroad to take more drastic, politically unpopular steps to rescue its financial sector, including closing the weakest banks and bailing out depositors.
"This is a case where gaiatsu might help," a senior Japanese official said, using the Japanese term for foreign pressure.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin suggested that Japan not try to export its way out of trouble. (Associated Press)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ZURN (SWX) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); ASIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: ZURICH INSURANCE GROUP LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; LATIN AMERICA; ; SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); ASIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); TRENDS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); BONDS (70%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (67%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC); MITSUZUKA, HIROSHI (MIN) ; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



318 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Gulf Alliance: A Falling Out

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Nov. 12

 BODY:
In the heady aftermath of the Persian Gulf war of 1991, American officials dreamed of transforming the Arab coalition that helped to oust Iraq from Kuwait into a new Arab coalition for peace.
They envisioned an Arab world no longer unified by romantic notions of solidarity, but riven by self-interest, with warmongers like Iraq to be punished into submission while peacemakers like Egypt and Syria reaped rewards for good conduct. 
 But after seven years of dashed expectations, what is now taking shape has the trappings of an Arab revolt.
The same Arab governments that rushed troops to the Saudi desert now stand united in opposition to the use of military might in the current confrontation between the United States and Iraq over Baghdad's threat to expel United Nations arms inspectors. As the Security Council voted today for more sanctions against Iraq, new questions were raised about the next stage in the crisis. Page A6.
Some of America's gulf war allies are echoing Iraqi calls for an end to economic sanctions against Baghdad.
And, even more tellingly, an American-backed economic conference that Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright is to attend this weekend in Doha, Qatar, now appears likely to include no more than a smattering of Arab participants. Among those who have refused Qatar's invitation to join an Israeli delegation around the table are Egypt and Saudi Arabia, the United States' most important allies in the region.
While the main focus of American diplomacy this week has been to line up support for the Security Council resolution, the stands taken by Arab governments outside the United Nations chambers have served as an important reason for American constraint.
"If the United States had pushed for a tougher stance on Iraq, it was plain to everyone that the Doha conference would have metamorphosed from a mere embarrassment to a disaster," a Western diplomat here said.
Nevertheless, with so many Arab countries staying at arm's length from Ms. Albright and her Israeli counterpart, David Levy, the year's most important gathering of Arab officials will now take place not in Doha, but at an Islamic summit meeting next month in Teheran, the capital of Iran, to which neither the United States nor Israel will be invited.
Even today, the Iraqi Government sought to exploit the emerging differences between the United States and its gulf war allies. Iraq's Foreign Minister, Mohammed Said al-Sahaf, pointed out to reporters in Baghdad that public opinion in many Arab countries now "stands clearly against the Americans."
Behind the renewed sense of Arab solidarity toward Iraq and against the United States has been a feeling that in the relationship between Washington and Arab capitals since the gulf war, basic understandings have been broken.
While the United States assured its allies that the isolation of Iraq would change Baghdad's behavior, the only tangible effect of the campaign has been the widespread suffering of the Iraqi people, according to this view.
And while the United States, from the time of the Middle East peace conference of 1991, has promised an evenhanded effort in promoting a broader Arab-Israeli settlement, its many Arab critics say it has failed to do so in practice.
Instead, according to this view, the Clinton Administration has simply acquiesced in a backsliding by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel that has sent Arab-Israeli relations plummeting to their lowest level in more than four years.
"A consensus within the Arab world now is that American policy toward Iraq has been overkill and that the Iraqi people have needlessly suffered," said Mohammed Sayed Saeed, a policy analyst at the Al Ahram Center for Strategic Studies in Cairo. "At the same time, Arabs believe that they have been treated as inferiors by the United States while Israel, which went back on its peace agreements, enjoys complete American protection."
Such thinking has been bubbling for many months in the Arab press and in the comments of some Arab officials. But the combination of the showdown with Iraq and a buildup to the economic conference that included last-minute American efforts to rally Arab support has begun to reveal just how deeply the resentment is felt.
Even President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, whose country acted as host for the previous conference, in November 1996, declared that his Government would stay away this time because previous efforts had produced nothing of substance and "because the Israeli Government never carries out its promises."
Of the Arab states that sent troops into battle against Iraq, only Syria has openly sided with Baghdad in the current crisis. Finding that its participation in the gulf war coalition led only to stalemate in its effort to reclaim territory conquered by Israel and secure a lasting peace, it has made a major effort in recent months to improve relations with President Saddam Hussein's regime, even opening the border between the two countries for the first time in 15 years.
Even Kuwait, which Iraq invaded and annexed in 1990, has avoided any hint of provocation. On Monday the Government, normally outspoken in support for tough measures against Baghdad, said the crisis "between Iraq and the Security Council is an issue related to them and Kuwait has nothing to do with it."
Indeed, the absence of any threat to another Arab country by Iraq in the current crisis has only added to Arab reluctance to oppose Baghdad.
The Arab League, which sent troops to Saudi Arabia in 1990 eight days after the invasion of Kuwait, has in this case declared its "complete rejection" of military action even if Iraq carries out its threat to expel American weapons inspectors. The United Arab Emirates, an important gulf war participant that has since called for a lifting of sanctions against Iraq, has warned through an official Government newspaper that an attack on Iraq -- "the defeated and the paralyzed" -- could be interpreted only as "an attack against the whole Arab nation."
And while Egypt, which holds a rotating seat on the Security Council, voted in favor of today's measure tightening sanctions against Iraq, Mr. Mubarak has publicly expressed the hope that "there will be no military operations against Iraq," while the semi-official newspaper Al Ahram, in an editorial earlier this week, endorsed the broad outline of Iraq's complaints.
The idea of "Arab solidarity" has been floated often in recent decades, but often as little more than a slogan that fails to take into account rivalries of interest and ambition.
But its role has also sometimes been underestimated. Because of a shared culture and language, a sense of kinship among Arab peoples is felt much more deeply than that which exists, for example, between Americans and Europeans, and it has contributed to popular outrage in every Arab capital at the plight of Iraqis at the hands of the United States.
In an important sense, the resistance now being shown by Arab leaders toward the United States and its policies amounts to stepping back in line with a public opinion they had previously been willing to flout.
That kind of uninhibited sentiment was on display this evening at a demonstration in Cairo where a committee of Arab women denounced the economic sanctions against Iraq as "a weapon of mass destruction." It was also evident on Monday in the West Bank and Gaza, where hundreds of Palestinians staged demonstrations that gave voice to the Arab creed that "the enemy of my enemy is my friend."
"Oh Saddam my dear," the demonstrators chanted in the West Bank town of Ramallah, "drop your bombs on Tel Aviv."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); QATAR (94%); EGYPT (93%); ISRAEL (93%); GULF STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); SYRIA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); JORDAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); QATAR (94%); EGYPT (93%); ISRAEL (93%); GULF STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); SYRIA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); JORDAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: PERSIAN GULF WAR; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US DESERT STORM (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



319 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BRIEFS;
Japan's Trade Surplus Soars in 6-Month Period

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
Japan's trade surplus soared 75.7 percent in the first half of this fiscal year compared with figures from the corresponding period a year earlier, the Ministry of Finance said today. The ministry said the current account surplus, the broadest measure of trade in goods and services, rose to 5.81 trillion yen, or $46.1 billion, from April to September. It said the surplus in merchandise trade increased 52.7 percent, to 6.25 trillion yen, or $49.6 billion. 
 In September, the current account surplus climbed 63.7 percent, to 1.17 trillion yen, or $9.2 billion, and the trade surplus rose 30.4 percent, to 1.23 trillion yen, or $10 billion. The surplus has ballooned this year as a result of surging exports, car exports to the United States in particular, combined with a weak domestic economy. Economists said they expected the rising trend in the current account surplus to continue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (71%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); TRENDS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



320 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: 4 Americans Slain in Pakistan; Link to Killing at C.I.A. Is Seen

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: KARACHI, Pakistan, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Gunmen leaped from a car during the morning rush hour in the central business district here today, fired virtually at point-blank range and killed four Americans working as auditors for a Texas-based oil and gas company and their Pakistani driver. The police said they were looking for at least four men in what they called a terrorist attack.
The five victims, employees of Houston-based Union Texas Petroleum, appeared to have died instantly when the assailants circled the Americans' station wagon and riddled it with bullets. 
 As the assailants fled, abandoning their car a short distance away, the victims lay in their vehicle for 40 minutes under the gaze of a rush-hour crowd before being taken to the Aga Khan Hospital five miles away, where they were pronounced dead.
Executives of the American company's Pakistan subsidiary identified the dead Americans as Ephrahim C. Egbu, 42; Joel B. Enlow, 40; William L. Jennings, 49; and Tracy L. Ritchie, 41. The executives said the Americans, all of Houston, had been in Karachi for varying periods of up to three weeks preparing the local company's annual audit, and had found nothing in the company's books that might have provoked the attack. The dead driver was identified as Anwar Mirza, 51, of Karachi.
The attack, which police officials said was probably linked to the conviction of a Pakistani in the killing of two Central Intelligence Agency employees outside Washington, sent shock waves through the small American community here, already traumatized by an attack in March 1995 in which two American diplomats were gunned down as they drove to work in the city.
After taking a call from Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif expressing Pakistan's condolences, Arnold G. Hoffman, president of Union Texas' Pakistan subsidiary, called the killings "a terrible and tragic loss for the families, Union Texas and for Pakistan."
He added, "At this time, we do not know the reason for this attack and we are fully cooperating with local officials in their investigation."
Police officials called the shooting as "a vicious, organized terrorist attack." They said that two of the suspects, described as being clean-shaven and in their mid-20's, hijacked the Honda used by the assailants from a textile factory owner Monday in Karachi, a city that has become synonymous in Pakistan for waves of ethnic and sectarian violence that have killed at least 5,000 people in the last five years.
Other than that, the police appeared to have no firm clues.
Nevertheless, senior police officers said the most likely motive had been to avenge a Pakistani citizen, Mir Amal Kansi, who was convicted by a jury on Tuesday in Fairfax, Va., of murdering the two Central Intelligence Agency employees in a 1993 shooting, and of wounding three other C.I.A. men, outside C.I.A. headquarters in Langley, Va.
Militants in Mr. Kansi's native province, Baluchistan, had vowed to seek revenge after Mr. Kansi was seized by American and Pakistani agents during a stayover in the Pakistani city of Dera Ismail Khan in June, then flown to the United States aboard an American military plane without any extradition or other court hearing in Pakistan.
Mr. Kansi's conviction was a leading item in Pakistani radio and television news reports on Tuesday night and in newspapers this morning.
The State Department was concerned enough about a possible attack on Americans after the Kansi verdict that it issued a formal advisory in Washington on Tuesday warning Americans in Pakistan to be especially alert because of the risks of retaliation by Mr. Kansi's sympathizers, and to avoid visiting Baluchistan and other areas of Pakistan.
But several American business executives living in the city said the first they knew of the State Department warning was when they read accounts of it in this morning's Pakstani newspapers, at about the time the Americans were killed.
One American executive with a family living in the city said the American community relied on a warden system, in which Americans pass on warnings of enhanced security risks that are passed on to them by the American Consulate.
"But I checked with several of the wardens, and none them knew a thing about the Kansi warning,' he said. "I guess that somewhere along the line the communications failed."
In a telephone call to the consulate to inquire about the issue, officials said they were too busy to discuss any aspect of the killings.
For many Americans here, the killings shootings were eerily similar to the 1995 attack, which occurred on the airport highway about three miles from the scene of today's incident. Although Pakistani officials said at the time that one of the Americans who died in the 1995 shooting, Gary Durrell, was known to them as an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency, no motive for the attack on the diplomats was ever established, at least publicly.
When Pakistani officials announced this summer that a man held in Karachi Central Prison on another charge had confessed under questioning to having been part of the gang that carried out the 1995 attack, a breakthrough in the case seemed possible. But several months later, no charges against the man, who uses the gangland nickname Tufu, have been brought.
Asked about the case today, jail officials said that Tufu had claimed to have been in a backup vehicle for the attack on the diplomats, and had said that he did not know why the diplomats had been killed.
Comparing the 1995 killings and the attack today, some Pakistanis suggested that both incidents, rather than being reactions to particular actions or policies of the United States, could have sprung from the same anti-American feeling among some Pakistani Muslims that prosecutors in the Kansi case have given as Mr. Kansi's motive for killing the C.I.A. employees, Lansing Bennett and Frank Darling.
In the Fairfax court, the prosecutors said Mr. Kansi had been motivated by anger at United States policies that he believed created suffering among Palestinians, Bosnian Muslims and others.
In recent years, Pakistan, having lost all American military and economic aid because of its covert program to develop nuclear weapons, has tried to attract new American business investment here, but even this has faltered as a result of endemic political corruption and the threat posed by terrorism.
Although Karachi has a population of more than 12 million people and serves as the hub of industrial and financial activity for a country with a population of 130 million, there are fewer than 100 American business executives here.
Union Texas, the employer of today's victims, is one of the largest American companies here, employing 600 people and producing about half of Pakistan's oil production.
After the killings today, the number of Americans here seemed likely to fall still further. At the Sheraton and Pearl Continental Hotels 300 yards from the scene of today's shootings, where the four dead Americans had been staying, other American executives who were ordered out of Pakistan by their companies in the hours after the killings lined up at travel counters to book the earliest flights home.
"I told my boss I'd rather stay and complete my business," an American insurance executive said as he booked a flight through Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, to Istanbul, where he said he made his base. "But I wasn't given any choice. My boss just said: 'Get out there. We're not going to take any risks.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Although the attack that killed four Americans and their driver came during morning rush hour, the gunmen managed to escape. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); Pakistani policemen kept watch on the street leading to the residence of the United States Consul in Karachi yesterday. Security was tightened after gunmen killed four Americans and their Pakistani driver. (Reuters)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNION TEXAS PETROLEUM HOLDINGS INC ; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY; STATE DEPARTMENT UNION TEXAS PETROLEUM CORP (57%); UNION TEXAS PETROLEUM HOLDINGS INC (57%); AMERICAN CO LLOID CO (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNION TEXAS PETROLEUM HOLDINGS INC ; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY; STATE DEPARTMENT CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; ; LANGLEY (VA); UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); TEXAS, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS SHOOTINGS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (86%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); AUDITS (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); FABRIC MILLS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); VERDICTS (65%); JURY TRIALS (65%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (65%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (64%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%); MURDER (58%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F; EGBU, EPHRAHIM C; ENLOW, JOEL B; JENNINGS, WILLIAM L; RITCHIE, TRACY L; MIRZA, ANWAR; KANSI, MIR AMAL ; SHARIF, NAWAZ (PRIME MIN) NAWAZ SHARIF (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



321 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

 
INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
4 Americans and Driver Die in Attack in Pakistan
Four Americans and their Pakistani driver were shot and killed as they drove through Karachi's central business district. The assailants fled, but police officials suspected they were avenging the conviction of a Pakistani citizen this week for killing two C.I.A. employees in Virginia in 1993. A1
 
Federal counter-terrorism officials in Washington said they feared the killings were a ploy to lure F.B.I. agents to Pakistan where they could be attacked. A10 

The four Americans were roving auditors who checked the books at Houston-based Union Texas Petroleum's overseas operations. A10
 
Sanctions Are Imposed on Iraq
The Security Council voted unanimously to impose new sanctions on Iraq for failing to cooperate with a United Nations disarmament commission. The sanctions included a ban on foreign travel by Iraqi officials, but Baghdad said it would ignore the ban, and again barred a team of inspectors from entering sites they wanted to investigate. A6
 
United Nations Begin Reform
The General Assembly approved a package of United Nations administrative reforms proposed by Secretary General Kofi Annan. None of the measures approved responded to demands being made by members of the Congress before the United States pays more than $1 billion in arrears to the organization. Mr. Annan made a special appeal for the creation of the post of Deputy Secretary General. A13
 
Election Date Is Fixed in Kenya
Kenya's electoral commission announced that the country's general elections, which most analysts expect President Daniel arap Moi to win, would be held on Dec. 29. Opposition leaders accused Mr. Moi's allies on the commission of rushing the election to give challengers less time to campaign. The Constitution required that elections be held before the end of the year, but recent electoral reforms led many to believe they would be delayed. A11
 
Famed Fugitive Remains Free
Brazil's supreme court rejected a British request for the extradition of Ronnie Biggs, who escaped from jail two years after robbing a Glasgow-to-London mail train in 1963. The court deemed Mr. Biggs's involvement in the celebrated "Great Train Robbery" as void under Brazil's 20-year statute of limitations. A5
 
Damaged Basilica Will Reopen
A part of Assisi's 13th century Basilica of St. Francis, badly damaged by recent earthquakes, will probably reopen to the public on Nov. 30, the church's custodians said. The Rev. Nicola Giandomenico, a spokesman for the Franciscan friars who live in the church complex, said security checks on the lower part of the basilica showed it was structurally safe. He reiterated the friars' hope that the upper basilica be reopened permanently in 2000. (Reuters)
 
NATIONAL A14-25
 
Congress Relaxes Rules On Residency for Refugees
Seeking to avert a backlash against Republicans, Congress is relaxing two provisions in a 1996 law that threatened to uproot hundreds of thousands of immigrants living in the United States. Lawmakers have agreed, in the waning days of this year's session, to exempt thousands of refugees from civil wars in Central America from sweeping new deportation rules. As many as 150,000 Nicaraguans would receive automatic permanent residency. A1
 
Babbitt Inquiry May Widen
Justice Department officials have urged Attorney General Janet Reno to extend an investigation that could lead to the appointment of an independent prosecutor to examine Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt's role in a decision to kill an Indian casino project, law-enforcement officials said. A20
 
New Use for Cholesterol Drugs
Doctors said a large study showed that cholesterol-lowering drugs can help even healthy middle-aged people with ordinary cholesterol levels reduce their risk of heart trouble by more than one-third. A23
 
Legislator Threatens to Sue
Representative John A. Boehner is preparing to sue Representative Jim McDermott, accusing him of making public an intercepted conference call between House Republican leaders. Mr. Boehner was driving in Florida last year when a Florida couple picked up his cellular phone conversation with House Speaker Newt Gingrich and other Republicans on a police scanner and taped it. A16
 
Congress Agrees on Spending
Rushing to complete work and adjourn for the year, Republican Congressional leaders agreed to a compromise with the White House on the last three Federal spending bills for 1998, yielding to the Administration in fights over international family planning and school vouchers. A24
 
New Guidelines on Asthma Care
Modest doses of inhaled steroids combined with other drugs control asthma as well as or better than high doses of steroids, while reducing the risk of side effects from long-term use, two studies have found. A23
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Jury Convicts Leader In Trade Center Bombing
A Federal jury in Manhattan convicted Ramzi Ahmed Yousef of orchestrating and helping carry out the deadly bomb plot at the World Trade Center in 1993. After deliberating for three days, the jury also convicted a second man, Eyad Ismoil, whom prosecutors accused of driving the van that carried the bomb into the Trade Center's underground garage. The bombing left six deaths, hundreds of injuries, millions of dollars in property damage and changed the way many New Yorkers viewed their security. A1
 
Investigators say they may never learn whether the plotters in the bombing had the backing of a government or Middle East terrorist group or acted independently, raising cash from family members and friends. And much about Mr. Yousef, from his background to his name, remains a mystery. A1
 
F.B.I. Ends T.W.A. Inquiry
The F.B.I. has written to the families of victims of T.W.A. Flight 800 saying that it is closing its investigation because it has found "absolutely no evidence" that a criminal act -- such as a bomb or a missile -- brought the plane down off the coast of Long Island in July of 1996, killing all on board. A1
 
Gambling Cruises Set to Start
A company plans to begin daily gambling cruises out of midtown Manhattan as early as next month. The company will offer overnight cruises into international waters -- where casino gambling is legal -- for about 1,000 passengers per trip. B1
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-18
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Spielberg Film Challenged
"Amistad," Steven Spielberg's film about a true-life revolt of African slaves in 1839, has been ensnared in a plagiarism suit one month before its release that could halt its distribution. The author Barbara Chase-Riboud has filed a $10 million copyright infringement suit against Dreamworks, which made the film. E1
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-20
 
Fed Rates Unchanged
Torn between fear of incipient inflation at home and concern about unsettling financial markets around the world, the Federal Reserve voted to leave interest rates unchanged and ride out the storm for a while longer. The decision had been widely expected by economists and investors, who saw little chance that the central bank would risk upsetting the global markets by raising rates, even though there is mounting evidence that inflationary pressures are building in the American economy. D1
 
After the Fed announced its decision, the Dow Jones industrial average plunged, closing down 157.41 points, or 2.08 percent, at 7,401.32. D10
 
Rubin Presses Japan on Banks
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin wrote a private letter to his Japanese counterpart last week warning that Japan's banking system is deeply imperiled, and urging strong action to spur the Japanese economy. D1
 
Starwood Nears ITT Goal
ITT shareholders essentially endorsed a sale of the company to Starwood Lodging Trust. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES B7
 
Rod Milburn
A gold-medalist in the 110-meter hurdles at the 1972 Munich Olympics in world-record time, he was 47. B7
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
Editorials: Ms. Reno's lazy investigations; fast-track falsities; three new architectural landmarks; Philip Taubman on the Iran embargo.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Bob Herbert.
 
Chronicle B12
 
Crossword E12
 
Bridge E12
 
Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAQ (93%); KENYA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: UNION TEXAS PETROLEUM CORP (57%); UNION TEXAS PETROLEUM HOLDINGS INC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAQ (93%); KENYA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (90%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); SHOOTINGS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); REFUGEES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (74%); ELECTION LAW (74%); TERRORISM (73%); TRAINS (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); DISARMAMENT (69%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); APPEALS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



322 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: House Yields to Clinton in 2 Spending Bills

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Thursday, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Rushing to complete work and to adjourn for the year, the House of Representatives yielded to the Clinton Administration early this morning in passing 1998 fiscal year spending bills for foreign operations and for the District of Columbia.
The votes came after midnight and Republican leaders' removal of amendments that President Clinton had found objectionable. But in a bow to the conservatives who were behind the amendments, Republican leaders agreed to allow those issues to be voted on in separate, stand-alone legislation. 
 The compromise was a major victory for Mr. Clinton, who had threatened to veto the spending bills because of the contentious issues. But it is a bittersweet victory since it comes on the heels of his failure to win one of his major legislative goals of the year, enhanced trade authority, or fast-track legislation.
The House on a voice vote Wednesday night approved an interim Federal highway bill that would provide about $15 billion in transportation grants to the states for the next six months. Under the plan, which House and Senate negotiators agreed to on Sunday, each state would receive at least half the Federal transportation money that it received in 1997, giving Congress until next spring to work out a permanent six-year plan.
With the fast-track legislation off the political landscape, the last major pieces of legislation facing the first session of the 104th Congress are a vote on a bailout for Amtrak and passage of the spending bills for the Departments of Commerce, State and Justice and the Federal judiciary system; the District of Columbia; and for foreign operations.
The House is expected to adjourn later today after completing work on the spending bill for Commerce, State and Justice. The Senate is to begin voting on the three remaining spending bills and the highway bill today and to complete its work as early as Friday.
The nearly $13 billion spending bill for foreign operations passed in the House on a vote of 333 to 76 after Republican leaders restored $385 million for international family-planning programs and removed language that would have prohibited Federal funds from going to overseas programs or organizations that use their own money to promote abortion. But instead of a lump sum, the money will be allocated over a year at a rate of 8.34 percent, or $32 million a month.
An official of Population Action International criticized the plan as "doling out money by the teaspoon."
"This is an unhappy compromise and no way to fund one of the world's most respected programs," said Victoria Markell, vice president of the population organization. "Rather, it is a way to cripple it."
Current Federal law, under the so-called Mexico City Policy, already bars the use of Federal money for overseas abortion services, but anti-abortion forces in the House had tried to expand that language.
The Republicans also stripped from the foreign operations spending bill three provisions that are dear to the White House: reauthorization of the State Department, the United States' payment of nearly $1 billion in back dues to the United Nations and $3.5 billion to help the International Monetary Fund bolster tottering economies in Southeast Asia.
Those three provisions will be lumped into a separate piece of legislation along with the language on international family planning that was removed from the spending bill.
International organizations like the United Nations and the International Monetary Fund are frequent political targets of conservative Republicans. But the current fight comes at an especially crucial time.
The International Monetary Fund has announced that it will lend $17 billion to Thailand and $10 billion to Indonesia as part of an effort involving 25 nations, including the United States, to stabilize their currencies. Without such action, world leaders fear that other Southeast Asian nations will face similar problems.
Administration officials, led by Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, met Wednesday evening with Speaker Newt Gingrich and other Republican leaders in an effort to negotiate a compromise over the issues.
The District of Columbia spending bill was approved on a voice vote. The bill, with $820 million, had been held up because of a fight over a Republican plan to provide $7 million for a school voucher program. It would provide $3,200 vouchers to 2,000 children from low-income families in Washington to allow the children to attend private schools. Democrats, including the President, opposed the idea, arguing that it would erode the public school system.
The Senate voted on Sunday to remove the voucher proposal from the spending bill and to make it a separate bill, and the House leadership decided on Wednesday to go along with that approach.
The major breakthrough on the Commerce, Justice and State Departments bill came in the weekend when Republican leaders and the White House agreed to a compromise over a disputed method of estimating the population in 2000.
The Census Bureau would be allowed to proceed with a test next year on the use of statistical sampling, as the Administration wanted. In return, Republicans won an agreement that the House Speaker would be allowed to challenge in court the use of sampling and that the Government would pay for the lawsuit.
That provision angered Democrats to the point that many said Wednesday night that they would vote against the spending bill for Commerce and the other departments. But the Democrats conceded that they lacked the votes to defeat it.
The bill appropriates money for three of the largest Cabinet departments -- Commerce ($3.2 billion), Justice ($1.13 billion), and State ($5 billion) -- as well as the Federal judiciary system ($3.2 billion). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (52%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT ; UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (54%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT ; UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND UNITED NATIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; WASHINGTON (DC); ; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; SOUTHEAST ASIA; UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (52%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING; ABORTION; FOREIGN AID; FEDERAL AID (US) ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC LEGISLATION (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (88%); ABORTION (84%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); VETO (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BAILOUTS (69%); FAMILY PLANNING (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (61%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



323 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Insurer Will Expand In Lower Manhattan

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

 BODY:
American International Group, which already has a sizable presence in lower Manhattan, is expanding by 135,636 square feet at 110 William Street, the 32-story tower at the corner of John Street.
The insurance company signed an 11-year lease with annual rents averaging in the low $20 range per square foot, said Roy L. Appel of CB Commercial Real Estate, who represented American International with his father, S. Harold Appel of the same firm. Kevin R. Wang of Mendik Management Company represented the building's owner, Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States. 
 American International already occupied space on three floors at 110 William Street through its risk management subsidiary, Mr. Appel said.
Among the other tenants of the 848,592-square-foot building, constructed in 1958, are the city's Economic Development Corporation and Department of Business Services. DAVID M. HALBFINGER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (71%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); MENDIK MANAGEMENT CO INC (71%); CB COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE GROUP INC (57%); CB RICHARD ELLIS SERVICES INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; 110 WILLIAM STREET (NYC) COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); REAL ESTATE (87%); RISK MANAGEMENT (87%); LIFE INSURANCE (71%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



324 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: World News Briefs;
Malaysian Leader Faces Vote After Comments

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Nov. 12

 BODY:
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad will face a vote of confidence in Parliament over his reported remarks that a Jewish conspiracy was behind Malaysia's currency crisis, his deputy said today.
The move comes in response to demands in the United States Congress that Mr. Mahathir resign or apologize for comments last month about Jews. 
 Mr. Mahathir is expected to win the vote in the lower house of Parliament, where his National Front coalition controls more than 85 percent of the seats.
The coalition's motion for a vote will be presented at the earliest possible date in the current session of Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim said.
Mr. Mahathir has denied making anti-Jewish statements, saying he had only denounced George Soros, the American financier, who he had noted is a Jew.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA; MALAYSIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: JEWS; ANTI-SEMITISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MALAYSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: MOHAMAD, MAHATHIR (PRIME MIN) GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1997



325 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 13, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Global Stock Slide Reaches U.S. as Dow Falls 157.41

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
The fallout from a worlwide slide in share prices continued to rattle stock markets in the United States yesterday, sending all the major indexes tumbling sharply.
 
 Fears that a global economic slow-down could pose a threat to corporate profits everywhere, initially depressed stocks in Asia and Europe, then in the Western hemisphere.
 The worries are so severe that even the Federal Reserve's decision not to raise interest rates at yesterday's policy meeting - typically seen as a positive sign for economic growth - failed to spark a rally.
 In fact, after the Fed announced its decision, shortly after 2 P.M., the Dow Joes industrial average nose-dived. It closed down 157.41 points, or 2.08 percent, at 7,401.32 - and is now down about 10.4 percent form its record close on Aug. 6.
 Much of the fallout yesterday followed a slide of nearly 4 percent in the Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong.
 For several weeks, stock markets around the globe have gyrated in tandem, making one thing clear, analysts say: the economies and stock markets around the word are undeniably linked.
 "Some regions are much worse off than others, but it's clear that world economic growth will slow next year," said Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch. "The U.S. is still going to have a decent economy, but we're going to get a negative growth shock."
 The slump in share prices here is not just a knee-jerk reaction to falling prices elsewhere, analysts say, but a fundamental concern over the prospects for earnings growth.
 "We're getting worries about earnings and carnage in the technology sector because that's where some of the big earnings were," said David Shulman, the chief equity strategist at Salomon Brothers. "Asia is much worse than people think, and the Asian contagion has moved to Brazil."
 In Brazil, the selloff erased some of the world's biggest 1997 stock gains. Yesterday, the Bovespa Index, which peaked in July, fell 10 percent, prompting exchange officials to halt trading for 30 minutes. In three months, the Bovespa has lost nearly 50 percent.
 A Brazilian Government austerity plan of spending cuts and tax increases aimed at taming a growing budget deficit seems to have shaken faith in the economy, and prospects for earnings growth next year.
 "A month ago, we thought Brazil was going to grow 3.5 percent, and now it looks like it's not going to grow," Mr. Steinberg at Merrill said. "It seems that widening parts of the world are being pulled into this defationary cauldron."
 While no analysts believe the situation is as severe in the United States as in Brazil or Asia, there are growing concerns that a deflationary episode abroad could reduce earnings prospects at home.
 "You've got a major international catstrophe brewing," said Don R. Hays, a strategist at Wheat First Butcher Singer, adding, "You've got a stock market that's more overvalued than at any time in history, and so investors are taking some air out of the ballon."
 Among the hardest hit sectors yesterday were banking and technology, both of which are viewed as sensitive to a slowdown in the Pacific Rim.
 Shares of Chase Manhattan fell 5 5/8, to 106 3/4, and Citicorp fell 7 1/16, to 116 3/8. Texas Instruments also fell sharply, down 12 1/2, to 93 3/4, after a Robertson Stephens analyt lowered earnings estimates.
 Shares of Worldcom dropped for the third consecutive session since the company agreed to acquire MCI Communications, falling 1 15/16, to 28 15/16, or 1/16 below the price Wold-com had set to guarantee its offer of each share of MCI. At the new price, Worldcom would offer MCI shareholders $50.89, worth of Worldcom stock instead, shaving the overall value of the deal to $36.39 billion from $36.47 billion.
 Other sectors are also vulnerable. Volkswagen A.G., Europe's large auto maker, is cutting production in Brazil, and General Motors is already warnings of weakness overseas and falling earnings expectations.
 Few shares were spared yesterday. On the Big Board, a little more than seven stocks fell for every two that rose in heavy volume of more than 588 million shares.
 But Laszio Birinyi, a market strategist at Birinyi & Associates in Greenwich, Conn., said that investors continued to quietly buy up shares of blue-chip issues. "Our attitude is the bull market is still intact," he said. "Even though everyone's concerned about Asia, few are actually leaving the party. The selling is not as intense as the prices reflect."
 
ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available EMERGING MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1997



326 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 41; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 2761 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD;
Art in Miami Now Extends Beyond Deco

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: MIAMI

 BODY:
Move over, "Miami Vice." Make ready for Miami nice.
The metropolis of south Florida is fast developing into an arts center. In fact, it may already have the richest cultural life of any city in the southeastern United States. 
 There are plenty of images to the contrary, of course: the white stretch limos, the Baywatch blondes, the nouveau riche extravagance, the mindless hours of sun worship, the murders of German tourists and of Gianni Versace. Some people think a sentence that contains the words "art" and "Miami" must be a grammatical error.
But just by itself, the southern end of Miami Beach has: (1) the greatest assemblage of Art Deco buildings in the United States; (2) the home auditorium of a ballet company that faithfully upholds the Balanchine tradition, and (3) the most comprehensive collection of early modern design in the world, not to mention an ever-changing cast of wacko street characters, who do things like dress up as Mondrian paintings for Halloween.
Lenny Bruce once derided southern Florida as the place where neon comes to retire. Fair enough. But Norman Van Aken, the area's most gifted chef, redresses the balance with a much more positive, equally epigrammatic comment. "Miami," he says, "is where the future comes for tryouts."
All around Dade County -- in Miami, North Miami, Coral Gables and Coconut Grove -- there are splendid feasts for the mind as well as the senses.
In the last decade or so, Miami has become the hub of banking, commerce and transportation in the Caribbean, and wealthy businessmen from Venezuela, Colombia and elsewhere maintain homes here, shuttling in and out. A long-lived local joke says that Miami is no longer the southernmost big city in the United States but the northernmost big city in Latin America. Calle Ocho, Eighth Street, the bustling main street of Little Havana, is the heartland of Hispanic Miami. At the corner of Southwest 13th Street stands a stark memorial to those killed in the bungled Bay of Pigs landings, marked with an eternal flame and a Spanish inscription recalling the fiasco of April 17, 1961.
This is a new city, peopled almost entirely by men and women who were born elsewhere. Many are refugees from the icy Northern winters; many more are refugees from politically or economically repressed parts of the Caribbean. Now they are trying to grow together ethnically, politically, commercially and culturally.
"You could have the same demographics in New York or L.A., and it wouldn't mix," said Bonnie Clearwater, director of the revitalized Museum of Contemporary Art in North Miami, who has lived in all three cities. "Here, for some reason, it does."
To see how life used to be lived here, you could do worse than begin at Vizcaya, the lavish winter home of James Deering, an International Harvester tycoon who between 1914 and 1916 caused there to arise on the steamy shores of Biscayne Bay a grand faux-Renaissance villa, complete with pipe organ.
Like Hearst, Deering plundered Europe for his New World showplace, taking a gate from a Pisani palace and a tinted plaster ceiling from the Rossi Palace, both in Venice. He liked Venice. His stone breakwater is shaped like a barge, with obelisks perched upon it, and Venetian-style striped poles rise from the water near the landing.
Another dreamer, George Merrick, built Coral Gables a decade later. He called it "The City Beautiful," a slogan that seems less far-fetched, even now, than most developers' coinages. The centerpiece is the romantic, Mediterranean-style Biltmore Hotel, newly restored and worth a visit even if you do not stay there; all around it, on streets mostly named for Spanish cities, are tile-roofed bungalows shaded by fig trees and live oaks. Coral Gables has its allusion to Venice, too: an enormous public swimming hole, the Venetian Pool, cut from a rock quarry and festooned with ferns, palms and waterfalls.
The Art Deco district of South Beach has not only been preserved but also turned into the city's symbol. More than 650 buildings from the 1930's, centered on Ocean Drive, have been restored, many as hotels, and painted butterscotch, turquoise, mint green, coral and teal. (Teal is Miami's color, whether we are talking about Don Johnson's sports coats, the uniforms of the football Dolphins and the world champion baseball Marlins or the signs identifying tow-away zones.)
You can buy guidebooks or join tours at the Art Deco Welcome Center at 1001 Ocean Drive. Among the choicest buildings are the blue-and-white Park Central Hotel, at 640 Ocean Drive, by Henry Hohauser; the Clevelander, at 1020 Ocean, with a flying-saucer sculpture, and the Leslie, at 1244, lemon yellow with handsome fluted columns. The Cardozo, a fine Streamline Moderne building at 1300 Ocean, is undergoing a second restoration. Versace lived at 1114 Ocean, an atypical Mediterranean palace, and died on its steps.
As you walk, notice the high jinks on the beach opposite: an architect manque building a minutely detailed sand castle, complete with turrets and cannon; improbably fit men and women Rollerblading; beefcakes doing push-ups.
The local tradition of quality architecture, dented a bit in the 1950's and 60's, has been picked up by Arquitectonica, a Miami-based firm with a worldwide practice. Three condominiums on Brickell Avenue near downtown Miami -- the Palace at 1541, the Imperial at 1627 and the Atlantis at 2025, with a red triangle on the roof -- show the exuberant style to advantage: bright colors, skillful massing and always some little geometrical trademark.
In Miami Beach, the firm has built an award-winning parking garage at Sixth and Collins, with the openings between levels cleverly masked with bushes and vines that cut down on air pollution (and the visual kind as well).
Ms. Clearwater's museum, currently showing the work of the French sculptor Annette Messager, is housed in another standout local building, a simple, flexible structure by Charles Gwathmey composed of cubes and cylinders.
There is something slightly absurd about walking out of the brilliant sunlight of South Beach into the Wolfsonian collection a couple of blocks inland. Sadly, few people try to jump the cultural hurdle that divides the two; the Wolfsonian, whose name represents a longing by the donor Mitchell Wolfson Jr. to share the glory of Washington's Smithsonian, is all too often empty.
My goodness, what a mistake that is, even in the most benign weather! You begin the tour of this old warehouse with a glimpse of the scintillating frontispiece from a theater in Norristown, Pa., and continue through items selected from a collection of 70,000 pieces. Familiar names like Christopher Dresser and Josef Hoffmann and Victor Horta are represented, but so are obscure designers of ephemera like bond certificates and newspaper ads.
The Miami City Ballet performs a few blocks away, at the Jackie Gleason Theater. (The people in charge of nomenclature hereabouts seem stuck in the 1960's; Arthur Godfrey Road crosses the island a few blocks to the north.) The ballet company has been assembled and trained by Edward Villella, one of Balanchine's premier male dancers. Mr. Villella's group is crisp, powerful and utterly devoted to the master's vigorous Neo-Classical style.
Just down the street, the New World Symphony, a training orchestra that draws promising musicians from around the world, performs regularly under the baton of Michael Tilson Thomas. And across the water in Coconut Grove, one of the nation's oldest regional theaters offers the likes of Jack Klugman and Tony Randall.
So we come at the end to a special, secret place. It is called the Kampong, and it was the home for many decades of Dr. David Fairchild, the plant explorer who brought blood oranges and cashews and tung oil and durum wheat to North America. Unlike the public garden named for Fairchild, this one is private, which is its joy (no crowds) and its curse (a chronic lack of money).
The Kampong is planted with tropical fruit trees ranging from the key lime to the pomelo. On some trees, Larry Schokman, the director of horticulture, has made grafts that yield blossoms two or three times a year. He showed us one hybrid with one parent from Ghana and the other from Brazil.
Fairchild Tropical Gardens, nearby, were heavily damaged in the hurricane of 1992. But the Kampong survived almost intact, with an amazing Ficus Bengalensis at the entrance, 351 feet around, roots dangling in the air, and a long vista down to the sea, interrupted by a shimmering lagoon.
 
Wonders Await Beyond the Sand And the Surf
 
Here is information about places in Miami mentioned in the article, along with tips on where to stay and where to eat.
 
Where to Stay
 
BILTMORE HOTEL, 1200 Anastasia Avenue, Coral Gables, (305) 445-1926, is a magnificently restored 1926 landmark, with a tower patterned after the Giralda in Seville, Spain; a two-story lobby with a stunning painted ceiling; a 17,000-square-foot swimming pool, and comfortable rooms at relatively sane prices. Through Dec. 31, daily room rate, $239 for one person, $259 for two people; after Dec. 31, $259 for one person, $279 for two.
THE DELANO, 1685 Collins Avenue, at 17th Street, Miami Beach, (305) 672-2000, the hot spot on South Beach, is Ian Schrager's all-white fantasy, with a forest of unadorned columns in the lobby echoed by a forest of palms outside. Philippe Starck's bathrooms are handsome but only marginally practical. Giddy clientele. Through Dec. 21, daily room rates, based on double occupancy, $295 to $395; after Dec. 21, $315 to $415.
THE GRAND BAY HOTEL, 2669 South Bayshore Drive, Miami, (305) 858-9600, in Coconut Grove, belies the area's Bohemian origins with its acres of marble and finely finished guest rooms, all of which have terraces. Fresh flowers abound. Through Dec. 31, daily room rate, based on double occupancy, $255; suites range from $350 to $1,200; after Dec. 31, rooms are $300, suites, $350 to $1,400.
THE INTER-CONTINENTAL, 100 Chopin Plaza, Miami, (305) 577-1000. Businessmen who need a central location might choose this hotel, which overlooks Biscayne Bay. Rooms have a Latin flavor; service is willing but sometimes inept. Through Dec. 31, the daily rate for the weekend based on double occupancy is $165; after Dec. 31, the rate is $205. Midweek through Dec. 31, the daily rate ranges from $185 to $245; after Dec. 31, the rate is $225 to $265.
THE SHERATON BAL HARBOUR, 9701 Collins Avenue, Bal Harbour, (305) 865-7511, one of the better convention hotels, also suitable for families, is right on the beach, with a swimming pool incorporating a suspension bridge and waterfalls. The best shopping in South Florida is just across the street. Through Dec. 18, daily room rates, $190 to $280; after Dec. 18, $235 to $325.
 
Where to Eat
 
NORMAN'S, 21 Almeria Avenue, Coral Gables, (305) 446-6767. Norman Van Aken helped create New World cuisine, an amalgam of France, Florida and Latin America. At Norman's, Miami's best restaurant, he cooks a dozen dishes that sound hideously complicated but taste perfectly integrated, like rum-and-pepper-painted grouper with a mango and habanero chile sauce. Equally original wine list.
CHEF ALLEN'S, 19088 Northeast 29th Avenue, at 191st street, North Miami Beach, (305) 935-2900. Another of the founding fathers of the new regional style is Allen Susser, who has a way with fish (e.g., grilled swordfish with sweet potato hash) and desserts (bananas four ways). If the food at Chef Allen's is not quite as subtle as Norman Van Aken's, it's still very good.
THE BLUE DOOR, at the Delano, (305) 674-6400, is a stage for the South Beach follies, but it's a superb restaurant, too, especially when Claude Troisgros, the consultant chef, is there to cook his sauteed foie gras with star fruit and jumbo ravioli filled with taro mousseline. Scion of the three-star Troigros clan of Roanne, France, he ran C.T. in Manhattan and now lives in Rio.
PACIFIC TIME, 915 Lincoln Road, Miami Beach, (305) 534-5979. Nothing could be less likely a few blocks from the Atlantic than a restaurant called Pacific Time. But there it is, and Jonathan Eismann turns out mouth-watering Pacific Rim dishes. A few of our favorites: a starter of Korean kimchi, skate in a delicate curry-infused broth and a side of perfectly cooked baby bok choy.
JOE'S STONE CRAB, 227 Biscayne Street, Miami Beach, (305) 673-0365, has been there forever -- well, 85 years. It still serves delicious hash browns, good Key lime pie (though the chief piemaker recently died) and the world's best stone crab claws, with shells, as Damon Runyon wrote, "harder than a landlord's heart."
 
Coming Up
 
THE MIAMI CITY BALLET. The company's next performances at the Jackie Gleason Theater, 1700 Washington Avenue, at 17th Street in Miami Beach, are "The Nutcracker," on Dec. 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30. A program including the "Ramonda" Variations, with choreography by Balanchine to music by Glazounov, will be performed on Feb. 6, 7 and 8. Tickets: $17 to $60. (305) 532-7713.
THE NEW WORLD SYMPHONY performs on Nov. 15 and 16 at the Lincoln Theater at 555 Lincoln Road. David Loebel will conduct music by Hindemith, Ravel and Haydn, with Jean-Yves Thibaudet as soloist in the Ravel Piano Concerto in G major. On Nov. 29 and 30, Michael Tilson Thomas will conduct a Russian program, with works by Glinka, Shostakovich and Prokofiev; the finale will feature Aaron Copeland's "Salon Mexico." Tickets: $19 to $46. (800) 597-3331.
"THE SUNSHINE BOYS." Jack Klugman and Tony Randall star in Neil Simon's play through Nov. 23 at the Coconut Grove Playhouse, 3500 Main Highway, Coconut Grove. Performances: Tuesday, Thursday and Friday nights at 8; Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays at 2 and 8 P.M.; no show on Mondays. Tickets: $35, weekdays and matinees; $40, Friday and Saturday nights. (305) 442-4000.
 
Attractions
 
VIZCAYA MUSEUM AND GARDENS, 3251 South Miami Avenue, Miami, (305) 250-9133. Open daily, 9:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. Admission, $10; $5 for children 6 to 12; free for those under 6. Decorative arts from the 16th to 19th centuries.
ART DECO WELCOME CENTER, Art Deco Welcome Center, 1001 Ocean Drive, Miami Beach, (305) 531-3484. Ninety-minute guided walking tours of the area are given every Saturday at 10:30 A.M.; fee, $10. There are also self-guided audio tours available for $5. The center is open Monday through Thursday, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. ; Fridays and Sundays, 11 A.M. to 11 P.M.; Saturdays, 11 A.M. to midnight.
MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART, 770 Northeast 125th Street, North Miami, (305) 893-6211. "Collection in Focus," a display of new acquisitions that are part of the permanent collection; "Annette Messager: Dependence Independence," an installation, and paintings and sculpture by David Rohn. All through Nov. 30. Open Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sundays, noon to 5 P.M.; closed on Mondays. Admission: $4; $2 for students and the elderly; on Tuesdays, all visitors pay what they wish.
WOLFSONIAN-FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY MUSEUM, 1001 Washington Avenue, Miami, (305) 531-1001. Open Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Thursdays, 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.; Sundays, noon to 5 P.M.; closed on Mondays. Admission, $5; $3.50 for students, the elderly and children 6 to 18 years old; free for children under 6 and on Thursdays, 6 to 9 P.M. Exhibitions: "Art and Design in the Modern Age," "Culinary Culture," "Wish You Were Here" and "Visionaries in Exile."
THE KAMPONG, 4013 Douglas Road, Coconut Grove, (305) 442-7169. Private garden. Tours on the first Sunday of every month at 2, 3 and 4 P.M.; in December, the tours will be on Dec. 14. Suggested donation, $10; $5 for students and children 5 to 16; free for children under 5. Reservations required.
FAIRCHILD TROPICAL GARDENS, 10901 Old Cutler Road, Miami, (305) 667-1651. Open daily, 9:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M., except Christmas. Admission, including guided tram tour: $8; free for those under 13.
 
Getting There
 
With the holidays approaching, flights to Miami from New York are filling quickly. Both Continental and American Airlines offer weekend packages with a Saturday departure to Miami and a return flight on Monday (or Tuesday on American) for a round-trip fare of $178. A round-trip ticket with an unrestricted return flight, purchased 21 days in advance, costs about $247 on both carriers. Continental Airlines, (212) 319-9494; American Airlines, (800) 433-7300. R. W. APPLE Jr.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Along with Ocean Drive's palm trees, Miami offers feasts for the mind as well as the senses. (Susan Greenwood)(pg. E41); Vizcaya, the lavish villa built by James Deering, is open to the public. (Associated Press)(pg. E46)
 
Map showing the location of Miami and Miami Beach, Florida. (pg. E46)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: MIAMI CITY BALLET; MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (MIAMI); NEW WORLD SYMPHONY ; KAMPONG (MIAMI) GIANNI VERSACE SPA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIAMI CITY BALLET; MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (MIAMI); NEW WORLD SYMPHONY ; KAMPONG (MIAMI)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; DADE COUNTY (FLA); MIAMI (FLA); MIAMI BEACH (FLA); UNITED STATES (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; ART DECO; ARCHITECTURE ; FLOWERS AND PLANTS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PAINTING (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); BALLET (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); MURDER (76%); HALLOWEEN (73%); REFUGEES (62%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR ; FAIRCHILD, DAVID (DR) GIANNI VERSACE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



327 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 54; Column 5; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Why Do Americans Gorge On Gothic?

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI 

 BODY:

NIGHTMARE ON MAIN STREET
Angels, Sadomasochism and the Culture of Gothic.
By Mark Edmundson
190 pages. Harvard University Press. $22.95.
 What do the following have in common: the Academy Award-winning film "Silence of the Lambs"; slasher movies like "Nightmare on Elm Street," "Scream" and "Halloween"; the new popularity of body piercing and tattoos; the sadomasochistic photographs of Robert Mapplethorpe; the horror novels of Anne Rice and Stephen King, and lurid news stories about serial killers, child molesters and demonic possession? 
 As the scholar Mark Edmundson points out in his absorbing new book "Nightmare on Main Street," they're all contemporary manifestations of the Gothic, an esthetic that reveals "the dark side, the world of cruelty, lust, perversion and crime that, many of us at least half believe, is hidden beneath established conventions." The Gothic not only relies upon certain familiar conventions (a hero-villain, a heroine in distress, a terrible place, unrelieved fear), but also purveys a distinctive vision, a dark, pessimistic view of the world as a place in which time present is shaped by time past, and "much of life has been scripted in advance."
As a literary form, the Gothic was invented by Horace Walpole in his 1764 novel "The Castle of Otranto" and developed further by such writers as Monk Lewis, Ann Radcliffe, Mary Shelley and Edgar Allan Poe. The popularity of late 18th-century Gothic narratives, Mr. Edmundson suggests, reflected an unease with the social and cultural changes unleashed by the French Revolution; it pointed up the chaotic emotions seething beneath the Enlightenment's surface of reason and helped goad readers into a recognition of their own suppressed passions.
Why has the America of the 90's witnessed a resurgence of the Gothic? Why have tabloid stories about O. J. Simpson, John and Lorena Bobbitt, and Andrew Cunanan captivated the public imagination? Why are Goth fashions and music suddenly in vogue? Why has the "X-Files" become a hit television show? No doubt part of the appeal of the Gothic is that it provides a reassuring framework for controlling free-floating anxieties (both millennial anxieties and more everyday anxieties about crime, illness and economic security) by converting them into suspense. The Gothic thrives, Mr. Edmundson argues, in a world in which "those in authority -- the supposed exemplars of the good -- are under suspicion," a world in which cynicism ("the conviction that the worst truth that you can come up with about any person or event is the most consequential truth") is a given.
Two other reasons are advanced by Mr. Edmundson for the current ascendancy of the Gothic. The first concerns reactions to the social changes wrought by the 60's and highlights the prominent role that "transgressor blacks like O. J. Simpson and Michael Jackson" and "enraged women like Lorena Bobbitt, Tonya Harding and the purported victims of once-repressed sexual abuse" play in current Gothic scenarios. "Fin-de-siecle American Gothic is often motivated by a drive to turn back the clock," Mr. Edmundson writes, "to get the uppity women, the blacks, and the young back into their place."
The second reason cited by Mr. Edmundson concerns the decline of faith in a benevolent, active God. "There is something to gain in accepting the harsh belief that the world is infested with evil," he writes, "that all power is corrupt, all humanity debased, and that there is nothing we can do about it. With the turn to contemporary Gothic -- no-fault, dead-end, politically impotent though it may be -- we recover a horizon of ultimate meaning. We recover something of what is lost with the withdrawal of God from the day-to-day world. With the Gothic, we can tell ourselves that we live in the worst and most barbaric of times, that all is broken never to be mended, that things are bad and fated to be, that significant hope is a sorry joke, the prerogative of suckers. The Gothic, dark as it is, offers epistemological certainty; it allows us to believe that we've found the truth."
Coexisting with contemporary Gothic is what Mr. Edmundson calls a "culture of easy transcendence," exemplified by the movie "Forrest Gump." This pop transcendence is a degenerate form of Emersonian optimism, a belief that one can move on, move past, move through all traumas, that one can shrug off the shackles of the past. It is manifested in the Pollyanna-ish belief in angels, and the proliferation of self-help gurus and 12-step programs.
"Productions like 'Forrest Gump' and the angel books invert the Gothic," Mr. Edmundson writes. "But in another sense facile transcendence reinforces the culture of terror. The very insubstantiality of the easy transcendence scenarios, their status, acknowledged even by some of their consumers, as simple wish fulfillment, testifies to the absence of plausible hope for many Americans." It underscores "the despair that often underlies the current quest for self-renovation."
Given the flimsiness of the "easy transcendence" ethos, the author argues, the Gothic impulse continues to insinuate itself in the American psyche -- with disturbing effects. "Dead-end, no-fault, paranoiac: our current Gothic modes invite us to be afraid, but not, in general, to fight back," he writes. "They suggest that we're our own worst enemy and propose no cogent defense. They counsel us to despair about political change and social reform. They offer us only the satisfaction that can come from complete fatalism, from giving up."
Drawing upon his considerable knowledge of American and European literature, Mr. Edmundson, who teaches English at the University of Virginia, does a nimble job of situating the current Gothic craze in context with philosophical developments, while at the same time assessing its social consequences. The book's occasional weaknesses stem from his tendency to overcompress his arguments and his eagerness to make his thesis as wide-ranging as possible. Some of his Gothic citations are decidedly debatable (does "The Lion King" really provoke and exploit "fear of predatory adults"?), and some of his discussions of major literary movements like modernism and romanticism are reductive and glancing at best.
Such quibbles, however, are eclipsed by the cogency of Mr. Edmundson's ideas. "Nightmare on Main Street" is a provocative and often illuminating book.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: NIGHTMARE ON MAIN STREET (BOOK)

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (54%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (54%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); HORROR FILMS (77%); FILM (77%); WRITERS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); HALLOWEEN (71%); CHILD ABUSE (70%); MURDER (70%); SEX OFFENSES (70%); HOMICIDE (70%); MILLENNIUM (64%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (55%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: EDMUNDSON, MARK; KAKUTANI, MICHIKO STEPHEN KING (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



328 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
A Canadian agency group hopes to persuade potential clients to take a look north of the border.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
WHEN advertisers introduce campaigns with provocative or contentious creative elements, they often say they are trying to "push the boundaries." Now an agency association is asking them to consider doing that literally.
The Institute of Canadian Advertising, a trade organization based in Toronto, is undertaking an unusual initiative to convince American marketers to consider shops north of the 49th parallel when they award accounts. The effort being sponsored by the institute, which is the Canadian equivalent of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, carries the theme -- what else? -- "Push the boundaries." 
 "Canadians are not well known for standing up and saying, 'Look at me,' " said John A. Harding, executive vice president of the institute. "But we have a story to tell."
"An advertiser in New York doesn't think twice about using an agency from Minneapolis or Portland," he added. "It's just as conceivable to look at an agency north of the border." (Or in the case of Detroit area advertisers, south of the border.)
The ambitious initiative includes print advertisements, direct and interactive marketing and a public relations campaign, all meant to generate requests for a videotape and booklet about the abilities of Canadian agencies. The effort is indicative of the growing globalization of advertising as multinational marketers increasingly look at results rather than passports.
"Where ideas come from is not as important as whether or not they work," said Andy Krupski, chairman of the institute's business development committee, who is president and chief executive at the Grey Canada unit of Grey Advertising in Toronto. "This is the first step in a continuing program to make sure the world is aware of the talent that's in Canada."
The initiative offers a lengthy list of what the institute describes as the advantages of hiring Canadian agencies, from favorable exchange rates to efficient production facilities to experience in ethnic marketing.
"Our industry has to work in two official languages by law," Mr. Krupski said, referring to English and French, "and in three or four by a market perspective. Because we have a lot of constituencies, we have to make ideas strong enough to work across cultural lines."
"And typically we do that with fewer dollars than may be afforded in the U.S.," he added, "which may make us more agile and frugal."
But persuading Americans that other countries can be capable of effective work is a challenge not unlike withstanding a Canadian winter without a warm coat.
"U.S. chauvinism" is daunting, said Stan Sutter, editor of Marketing Magazine, a weekly trade publication in Toronto, who described the initiative as "calling the bluff of all the companies that say they believe in globalization."
"If globalization is real," he asked, "why not use an agency in Toronto, Vancouver or Montreal?"
Another reason the institute is prospecting for American clients, he said, is that "since the recession of the early 1990's, it's been tough on the agency industry here." "Accounts keep going south," he added.
O. Burtch Drake, president and chief executive of the association of American agencies, echoed that.
"A lot of companies are handling Canada out of the United States," he said, "which eventually leads to a consolidation of Canadian assignments -- handled by Canadian agencies or Canadian offices of U.S. agencies -- at U.S. agencies."
"I know the people up there quite well," he added, referring to the managers of Canadian agencies, "and they're good, smart ad people. But there are some pretty good agencies here. The ultimate test is whether the work will be as good as they can get here."
At least one advertiser has decided that a Canadian agency ought to handle an American assignment. TDL Group Ltd., a unit of Wendy's International that operates the Tim Hortons chain of Canadian doughnut and coffee shops, is using its Canadian agency, Enterprise Creative Selling, to create campaigns to introduce Hortons in American markets like Detroit and Columbus, Ohio.
"We believe our agency up here understands our business and the message we need to get across in a new market," said Patti Jameson, corporate communications director at TDL Group in Oakville, Ontario. "There is some merit in saying that opening a store in Buffalo is very similar to opening a store in Mississauga," a Toronto suburb.
But last month, Northern Telecom in Brampton, Ontario, shifted its corporate advertising account from one American agency (J. Walter Thompson San Francisco, part of WPP Group) to another (the Bozell Worldwide unit of Bozell, Jacobs, Kenyon & Eckhardt in New York).
Indeed, Mr. Krupski said, one goal of the initiative is to remind Canadian advertisers "not to forget there's some good talent up here, too."
Several agencies in Toronto are contributing to the effort: the Harrod & Mirlin unit of True North Communications and the Saatchi & Saatchi Canada unit of Cordiant P.L.C., which worked on the print ads; Grey Interactive, which designed a World Wide Web site (http://www.ica-ad.com), and Spectrum Public Relations, part of the BBDO Canada unit of Omnicom Group.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE OF CANADIAN ADVERTISING AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF CANADIAN ADVERTISING AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (71%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (67%); EXCHANGE RATES (62%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (61%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



329 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: At Home Abroad;
Meet Yesterday's Men

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
Richard Gephardt, meet William Hague. The Democratic leader in the U.S. House and the Conservative leader in Britain are pointing their countries and their parties in the same direction: backward toward economic and political disaster.
The two men are trying to undo the policies that have given their countries unparalleled prosperity. In the United States, it is the 60-year-old policy of free international trade. In Britain, it is membership in the European Union. 
 Mr. Gephardt has just had his greatest success: leading an overwhelming majority of Democrats in the House to kill President Clinton's fast-track trade legislation. A few days later Mr. Hague led the Tories in the House of Commons in futile opposition to an E.U. treaty -- opposition that, if it had succeeded, would very likely have led in time to British withdrawal from the Union.
A nostalgia for the bad old days grips both men. Or so one must conclude on examining their arguments.
At the heart of Mr. Gephardt's opposition to the trade legislation was the argument that free trade costs American jobs. But that can be true only if jobs are a zero-sum game, so that using Malaysians instead of Americans to make sneakers adds that much to U.S. unemployment. And that is not what happens.
Over the last four years, with the lowest trade barriers in its history, the United States has added more than 11 million jobs to its total employed. The U.S. unemployment figure is now the lowest in 24 years: 4.7 percent.
British unemployment stands at about 6 percent, again the lowest figure in years. Britain has benefited greatly from its membership in the European Union, not just economically but in the greater variety and sophistication of life here. But Mr. Hague and his cohorts are unapologetic Little Englanders, longing to be once more an island apart from Europe.
The Congressional Democrats and the British Conservatives are alike in another respect. Both have changed their historic positions on the issue.
It was the Democrats, starting with President Franklin Roosevelt, who led the United States away from the policy of high tariffs -- a policy that had helped to bring on the Great Depression. American business was largely protectionist then but has come to favor free trade strongly, as British industry supports full participation in the European Union.
And it was the Conservatives, under Prime Minister Edward Heath, who in 1972 finally took Britain into what was then the European Common Market. What an irony that the same party is dominated in the House of Commons today by members who seem to believe, in the old saying, that the wogs begin at Calais.
It was the Labor Party that used to have the largest share of Little Englanders. As recently as 15 years ago, Labor, then dominated by its left wing, wanted to withdraw from Europe.
Today New Labor, as Prime Minister Tony Blair christened the party, has only a minor, lingering anti-European wing. The Blair Government is still fudging its position on when or how it will join the E.U.'s great current project, a single European currency, but it has said it will join if and when the economic factors favor British participation.
Even more strikingly, the labor union movement here is strongly for Europe -- and for the common currency. The Trades Union Congress used to be so backward in its political-economic outlook that it was famously caricatured by the cartoonist David Low as a cart horse.
All this points to a great difference between the two countries: a difference in political leadership. Tony Blair, accompanied by modern union leaders, has turned the moderate political left in this country toward forward-looking policies. In the United States, Richard Gephardt's Democrats and their union allies want to stop the world and get off.
Much of the failure has to be laid to Bill Clinton. Of course an American President has far less ability to influence legislators than a prime minister does. But President Clinton has hardly tried over the years. He has run for himself, not for the Democratic Party.
And Mr. Clinton did not even try on the trade legislation until too late. He, and all of us, will pay the price if the world reads Mr. Gephardt's victory as the end of American leadership for expanding world trade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (52%); AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (52%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (52%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); TRENDS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR); HAGUE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



330 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Fed Solidly for Steady Rates on Sept. 30

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Despite concerns over increased wage pressures, Federal Reserve officials voted 10 to 0 to keep interest rates unchanged at the end of the third quarter, according to minutes issued today.
The Fed also kept rates unchanged at this week's policy meeting, minutes of which will not be released until after the next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee in December. 
 At their Sept. 30 meeting, committee members reviewed economic data that suggested brisk activity, paced by robust consumer and business spending. But "despite widespread indications of tight labor markets, increases in labor compensation had been moderate in recent months, and price inflation remained subdued," the minutes said.
Although Fed forecasters earlier told the committee they expected the economy to expand faster than expected during the second half and early 1998, they said growth would moderate to a more sustainable rate later.
As a result, the committee voted to keep the Federal funds rate unchanged at 5.5 percent. The rate is what banks charge each other for overnight loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); INFLATION (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); MONETARY POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); INTERBANK LENDING (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



331 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Finishes Lower vs. Yen For the First Time in 10 Days

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The dollar ended lower against the yen yesterday for the first time in 10 days on concern that the Bank of Japan might sell dollars to curb the United States currency's rise.
Against the mark, the dollar rose for a third day as the United States stock market rebounded and concern ebbed that Germany might soon raise interest rates. Klaus-Dieter Kuhbacher, a member of the Bundesbank's policy-making council, suggested that higher rates in Germany were not justified. 
The dollar's decline against the yen came after Japanese reports that the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Japan had considered selling dollars for a week, leading some currency traders to speculate that the central bank might already have intervened.
"The market got the impression the Bank of Japan had been selling," said Dennis Pettit, manager of foreign exchange at the New York branch of the Long Term Credit Bank of Japan. "Though no one said they saw them doing it, the rumors caused some panic selling."
In late New York trading, the dollar cost 126.07 yen, down from 126.32 late Wednesday. The dollar cost 1.7243 marks, up from 1.7183. The British pound cost $1.6987, down from $1.7033.
The dollar pared most of its losses against the yen after the London-based IBCA ratings service downgraded credit ratings of three major Japanese banks and was considering doing the same for three other Japanese banks.
While the yen's weakness can benefit Japan's struggling economy by making exports less expensive, Japanese officials have in the past complained when the dollar rose quickly in a short period.
"The dollar's been on a one-way street for the last two and a half weeks," said David Ogg, manager of foreign exchange at Dresdner Bank. "This takes some volatility out of it."
The dollar is up 13 percent against the yen since touching a seven-month low of 110.65 yen June 11.
"I can't imagine that the U.S. is terribly happy about the yen weakening as much as it has," Mr. Pettit said. "They can live with it as long as it's a short-term phenomenon. The question is how long before it becomes permanent."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF JAPAN (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BRITISH POUND (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



332 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Productivity In U.S. Surges; Fastest Pace In Five Years

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
The productivity of American workers grew in the third quarter at the fastest pace in five years. The unexpectedly strong rate eased fears that labor shortages could lead to renewed inflation.
Productivity surged at an annual rate of 4.5 percent from July through September, helping to push unit labor costs down three-tenths of a percent, the Labor Department said today. 
 The growth in nonfarm productivity, which represents the output per number of hours worked, was the fastest since a 5.9 percent annual rate during the final three months of 1992. Many analysts were expecting a growth rate of 3 percent.
Mark Vitner, economist at the First Union Corporation in Charlotte, N.C., said the steep productivity gain was "simply unheard of this late into a business expansion."
Productivity is considered the key to Americans' standard of living because greater efficiency means businesses can increase wages without raising prices as workers produce more in the same amount of time.
"Such high productivity growth implies downward pressure on inflation," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. "Unit labor costs declined, which means that the recent pickup in wages should be of little concern because productivity gains will offset them."
The drop in labor costs, which typically represent two-thirds of the price of a product, was the first since the second quarter of 1994.
The department also provided further evidence that the labor market remained tight, as unemployment has fallen to levels not seen since the early 1970's. It said that first-time claims for jobless benefits fell last week by 6,000, to 310,000. It was the 10th consecutive week that claims remained below 320,000.
The third-quarter productivity report followed a 2.4 percent growth rate in the three previous months. Those performances contrasted with growth that averaged only about 1 percent a year since the early 1970's, after robust advances in excess of 3 percent annually in the 1960's. It rose just 1.3 percent last year.
The overall productivity increase was led by a 9.8 percent jump in the manufacturing sector, largest since a 12.5 percent gain in the second quarter of 1982.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "U.S. Productivity"
Index of output per hour of all people in nonfarm businesses. 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted. Chart shows the quarterly change at annual rate from 1993 through 1997. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) WELLS FARGO & CO (70%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; PRODUCTIVITY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY PRODUCTIVITY (94%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



333 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Shortsighted Arab Diplomacy

 BODY:
Arab countries that favor long-term stability in the Middle East are making a sad mistake by boycotting this weekend's economic conference in Qatar and by resisting more forceful steps to keep Saddam Hussein from developing weapons of mass destruction.
Staying away from the fourth annual Middle East and North Africa economic conference at Doha, Qatar, can only hurt the stalled Israeli-Palestinian peace process. The meeting is designed to build the kind of economic links that brought reconciliation between traditional foes like France and Germany after World War II. But when countries long committed to peace, like Egypt and Morocco, and American allies like Saudi Arabia stay away, they reinforce the efforts of extremists on both sides of the Arab-Israeli divide. 
 The reluctance of many Arab countries to apply meaningful international pressure on Saddam Hussein over his escalating challenge to United Nations arms inspectors is similarly self-defeating. Most of those inspectors are now leaving Iraq, after Baghdad's expulsion yesterday of the six American members of the U.N. inspection team. But as Iraq's 1990 invasion of Kuwait demonstrated, it is the Arab Middle East that would face the first and gravest dangers should the Iraqi dictator build any deliverable biological, chemical or nuclear weapons.
The countries shunning the Doha conference say they are expressing anger at Israel's Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, and at America's refusal to condemn Mr. Netanyahu's policies toward the Palestinians. They also want to show Israel that there will be no end to its economic isolation in the region if it refuses to follow up on the Oslo peace agreements. But the Netanyahu Government cares little about economic bridges with the Middle East, preferring to cultivate trade and investment ties with Europe and East Asia.
It was the United States that pushed hardest for Arab countries to participate and is now most discouraged by their absence. Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Tunisia, Yemen and the host, Qatar, are the only Arab countries planning to send official delegations. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright will attend, but the absence of so many of her Arab counterparts shows how readily setbacks in one area of Middle East peacemaking lead to further reversals elsewhere.
The rare gesture of hope was made by King Hussein of Jordan. Despite his rage at a bungled Israeli assassination attempt in Amman earlier this fall, he is sending a representative to Doha. Others should learn from his vision and courage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (97%); ISRAEL (96%); QATAR (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); JORDAN (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); MOROCCO (79%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); OMAN (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; IRAQ; QATAR; MIDDLE EAST (97%); ISRAEL (96%); QATAR (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); JORDAN (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); MOROCCO (79%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); OMAN (79%); GERMANY (76%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); BOYCOTTS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); ASSASSINATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); TRENDS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



334 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKET TURMOIL: THE POLICY MAKERS;
Crisis in Asia No Big Threat, Fed Chief Says

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, teamed up with the Clinton Administration today to offer soothing comments about the turmoil in global markets, saying the problems in Asia and elsewhere should not threaten prosperity in the United States or the soundness of the nation's financial system.
While pointing out possible risks from the crisis to the United States and the rest of the world, Mr. Greenspan said the difficulties that had created such volatility in stock markets around the world could even benefit the United States by helping in a small way to suppress inflation. 
 The Federal Reserve has been increasingly concerned that the strong growth in the domestic economy at a time when unemployment has fallen to a 24-year low could lead to rising prices and thwart the long expansion. The Fed voted on Wednesday not to raise interest rates, concerned that tightening monetary policy would further destabilize markets around the world and betting that the American economy might slow sufficiently to avert any inflationary outbreak.
Mr. Greenspan's comments heartened investors somewhat today. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 86.44 points to close at 7,487.76, partly offsetting Wednesday's 157.41-point decline.
Asked during his appearance before the House Banking Committee today whether the situation in Asia significantly threatened the world economy and international financial system, Mr. Greenspan said no.
"I think we have fallen far short of something where we have serious threats," Mr. Greenspan said. "The reason it requires our attention is that we don't wish it to become something which is a far more serious threat to the system."
Mr. Greenspan's assessment was largely the same offered by Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, who appeared alongside him in fielding questions about the crisis.
Mr. Summers said the "direct and indirect impact on our economy of a prolonged period of lower growth in Southeast Asia, and the large decline in its currencies, is potentially significant."
But, Mr. Summers said in his prepared testimony, the Administration does not see "significant risk to United States financial institutions or to domestic financial stability as a whole as a result of the turbulence to date."
Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Summers said the fallout from problems in Asia could worsen if steps were not taken by the United States and international financial institutions to restore stability.
They made low-key pleas to the Republican leadership in Congress to restore $3.5 billion in additional financing for the International Monetary Fund requested by the Administration. The financing was deleted from spending bills today in the House and Senate because of a political dispute over American support for family-planning programs abroad.
Mr. Greenspan stayed closely to comments he made about the Asian turmoil before a Congressional committee two weeks ago.
He said the trouble in Asia would reduce American exports to the region and diminish profits of companies that operate there. He said there could be indirect effects on the American economy as the problems of Thailand, Indonesia and South Korea put pressure on the Japanese economy.
"To date, the direct impact of these developments on the American economy has been modest, but it can be expected not to be negligible," Mr. Greenspan said.
Questioned about whether a $160 million trading loss by the Chase Manhattan Bank in October signaled broader problems in the American banking system because of events in Asia, Mr. Greenspan said the loss posted by Chase was not particularly big.
"The losses that are involved in those trades in no way threaten in any means whatever the financial status of that institution," Mr. Greenspan said.
Before the Asian crisis is over, he added, "there will be lots of other losses recognized, but they are in nowhere near the orders of magnitude which threaten the financial system of the United States nor any of the major banking institutions in the developed world."
Mr. Summers used much of his presentation to justify American involvement in international efforts to stabilize the economies and financial markets of Asia and, increasingly, Latin America.
But the Administration's policies came under attack from liberal Democrats for supporting countries like Indonesia. They said the Administration was ignoring human rights abuses, corruption and other problems in Indonesia, and demanded that the Administration make financial aid contingent on improvement in those areas.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The reason the Asian crisis "requires our attention is that we don't wish it to become something which is a far more serious threat" to the global financial system, Alan Greenspan told Congress yesterday. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. D3)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM LAWRENCE H STEIN (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); BONDS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); TESTIMONY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); FAMILY PLANNING (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (DEPUTY SEC) ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



335 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: An Ultimatum for Iraq

BYLINE: By Robert M. Gates; Robert M. Gates was Director of Central Intelligence from 1991 to 1993.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
Perhaps the most important of the United Nations Security Council's decisions after the Persian Gulf war in 1991 was its resolution that Iraq's program to build weapons of mass destruction must be eliminated.
Before the war, Iraq had significant stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons, and programs to develop even more sinister weapons, including nuclear ones. As a result of the war and the subsequent intensive inspections carried out by international teams, many of these weapons have been destroyed. 
 But far from all. And now -- in part because of our own indecisiveness and inattention -- we find ourselves in a stare-down with Iraq. If this continues for more than a few days, we should address Saddam Hussein in the only language he understands: force.
Since the end of the war, the Iraqis, trying to preserve their programs for chemical, biological and nuclear weapons, have lied to United Nations inspectors and engaged in a deadly game of hide-and-seek. For diplomatic reasons, the United Nations has never fully revealed the extent of physical abuse and mistreatment of its inspectors in Iraq. Nor has it fully revealed the extraordinary deception, subterfuge, trickery and other obstructionism used by the Iraqis.
Over the years, the weapons inspectors and the Security Council have shown remarkable patience and persistence in dealing with Mr. Hussein's efforts to thwart the will of the United Nations. And the inspectors exposed and destroyed many of these fearsome weapons and the associated equipment.
Then, last month, the Iraqi dictator issued an ultimatum: if Americans were included in the inspection teams, the teams would be barred from doing their work.
When Mr. Hussein first made those threats, Kofi Annan, the Secretary General of the United Nations, sent a diplomatic mission to Baghdad to urge reconsideration. (He must have forgotten about the stream of similarly feckless missions before the 1991 war). After that mission failed, the Security Council tightened economic sanctions somewhat. But the inspectors are still blocked from doing their work -- yesterday, they began leaving Iraq -- and it seems clear that Mr. Hussein is moving or hiding his weapons or equipment. So what now?
The Clinton Administration has worked to maintain the Security Council's strong support for the sanctions as long as Mr. Hussein refuses to comply with all the resolutions, including his refusal to allow the inspections. That effort, over time, has become more challenging as Russia and France, in particular, have pursued oil and other contracts with Iraq worth billions of dollars, to take effect once the sanctions are lifted.
However, it appears that President Clinton has failed to make an effort, both personally and through senior advisers, month after month and year after year, to maintain and nurture the coalition that defeated Mr. Hussein.
Maintaining a core of support within such a fragile alliance requires constant attention. The diplomats of both the Soviet Union and France continuously tried to undermine the coalition in 1990 and 1991, and only frequent telephone calls from President George Bush to Presidents Mikhail Gorbachev and Francois Mitterrand kept them on board. At its highest levels, the Clinton Administration must remind Russia, France and others that Mr. Hussein must fully comply with the United Nations resolutions. Mr. Clinton should point out to these nations that if the desire for unilateral political and economic gain in the Middle East causes them to lose their resolve, their relations with the United States will suffer.
Further, Mr. Hussein probably has begun to question long-term American resolve as well (a question that perhaps began to form when the war ended with him still in power). In 1994, when he rushed tens of thousands of troops to the Kuwaiti border, the Administration quite laudably sent reinforcements to the region and made clear that it was ready to deal with any new aggression. However, when the Iraqi forces were pulled back, our own were quietly withdrawn, and Mr. Hussein paid no price for his bluff. This was a military opportunity missed. Similarly, when Mr. Hussein last year violated the "no-fly zone" in northern Iraq and re-established his position there, the United States threatened retaliation, but then never acted.
By this fall, Mr. Hussein presumably had concluded that fissures in the coalition and the American failure to respond forcefully to his maneuverings in the past had created an environment in which he could challenge both the United States and the United Nations Security Council over the inspections.
He must not be allowed to succeed. The minimum acceptable outcome of this confrontation must be both the new, tightened sanctions just adopted by the Security Council and a complete reversal by Iraq on weapons inspections -- allowing inspectors to proceed unhindered regardless of their nationalities. Moreover, there must be an aggressive push to find out what Mr. Hussein has been doing in the absence of the inspectors.
 Failing this, the United States -- preferably with the full support of the Security Council, but at least with whatever coalition support it can muster, or alone if necessary -- must act forcibly to remind the Iraqi military that it will pay a heavy price for Mr. Hussein's obduracy, arrogance and defiance. A few dozen missiles launched against Iraq would be an inadequate response. Mr. Hussein has easily absorbed such attacks before and then boasted to his people and his neighbors that he can take whatever the Americans dish out.
 No, the next strike should be a powerful air and missile campaign targeted on the Republican Guard divisions that sustain Mr. Hussein's regime. That campaign, focused on military targets, should continue until he relents on inspections. In addition, Iraq's generals must be reminded by our actions -- again and again, if necessary -- that their forces will pay a terrible price when Mr. Hussein takes on the United States and the United Nations. This not only would weaken the regime, but it may also eventually induce the Iraqi army to remove this man, who imposes such awful sacrifices on his own people even as he builds new palaces for himself.
Surely, we know now that force is the only thing Mr. Hussein understands. We have known since 1990 that faintheartedness disguised as reasonableness in dealing with him is an invitation to further depredations.
If Mr. Hussein fails to reverse course on inspections within a few days, the United States must act, and it must deliver a message understandable not just by him, but by his army. Insistence upon full compliance with all United Nations resolutions and enforcement of those resolutions is the only acceptable path. The alternative is a megalomaniac with weapons of mass destruction.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Janusz Kapusta)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); FRANCE (52%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); FRANCE (52%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); 

PERSON: GATES, ROBERT M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



336 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKET TURMOIL: THE AUTO MAKERS;
Brazilian Slowdown Forces Rethinking and Retrenching

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Southeast Asian auto sales have collapsed, and now the other shoe has dropped for the world's biggest auto makers.
After years of spectacular growth, the Brazilian auto market -- the largest of any emerging-market country -- is facing a severe slowdown as the Government there has doubled interest rates, raised income taxes and slashed spending to prevent Asia's currency turmoil from spreading across the Pacific. 
 The Ford Motor Company said today that it would halt production at Brazilian factories for about a week beginning Friday, and had already warned that fourth-quarter profits would be hurt by the Brazil slowdown. Volkswagen A. G. and the General Motors Corporation are also cutting production, while Fiat said today that it would take the expensive step of offering heavily discounted interest rates to lure buyers.
Auto makers remain optimistic about long-term prospects in Brazil, which has a growing middle class eager to buy cars. The Mexican peso's sharp drop in December 1994 caused lasting damage to auto sales there, but Brazil has resisted devaluation of its currency, the real. Auto analysts nonetheless said today that the problems in Brazil were likely to hurt auto maker profits in the fourth quarter and into next year.
"So far, this does not seem to be another Mexico," said Scott F. Merlis, an independent auto analyst in Westport, Conn., who expects Brazilian sales into next year to be flat to slightly down.
Had the Government not acted to protect the real, things could have been worse in the long run, auto makers and analysts agree. "Given the Government austerity plan, it seems that the odds of the Brazilian auto industry imploding have diminished, but the odds of sustained growth have also diminished," Mr. Merlis said.
Because Brazil has no domestically based auto makers, European and United States companies have the most to lose. The biggest in Brazil's auto market, Volkswagen, has said it will cut production at its two Sao Paulo factories from five days a week to three. Latin American sales account for about 15 percent of Volkswagen's profits. Fiat, Brazil's second-largest auto maker, said today that it would trim the monthly interest rates charged to car buyers from 3.8 percent to 2.79 percent, or 39 percent on an annualized basis. Car sales have plunged partly because the Brazilian central bank has doubled the cost of borrowing -- annualized base lending rates are now 46 percent. A third of Fiat's profits come from Latin America, Jack V. Kirnan, an auto analyst at Salomon Brothers, estimates.
General Motors is the third-largest auto maker in Brazil, and has only modestly trimmed production by suspending one shift of workers as of last Saturday. About 15 percent of G.M.'s profits come from Latin America, and Mr. Merlis estimated that the trouble in Brazil could reduce G.M.'s 1998 earnings by $125 million.
Andre Beer, an executive at G.M. do Brasil, said it was too early to determine the full effects of the Government's economic package. He said that if necessary the company would eliminate more shifts and take extra holidays and export more cars, using layoffs only as a last resort.
While auto makers could increase exports from Brazil to Argentina and other neighbors as long as their economies remained strong, analysts said large-scale exports from Brazil to the United States or Europe were unlikely. Many of the best-selling cars in Brazil are tailored to developing markets.
Ford is Brazil's fourth-largest auto maker. It builds two pickup trucks and two small cars there: the F-series and Courier pickups and the Fiesta and Ka cars. It ships some to Argentina, while it imports from Argentina Ranger pickups and the Escort to sell in Brazil.
Ford has been struggling in Brazil for some time. Last year, it lost $572 million in Latin America, but this year, it is expected to earn about $200 million there. The Brazilian turmoil is likely to halt that improvement, Mr. Kirnan said. Just last month, Ford signed a letter of intent with the Brazilian state of Rio Grande do Sul to spend up to $500 million building an additional assembly plant there.
Among American auto makers, the Chrysler Corporation has the least to lose, for now, because it ships cars and trucks from the United States, Austria and Argentina to Brazil and can sell many of them in those markets instead. Chrysler sold just 8,805 vehicles in the first 10 months of the year, and has reduced sales expectations for the year from 12,000 to 10,000, Evelyn M. Mariperisena, a spokeswoman, said.
But next year was to have been Chrysler's big year: in June, it plans to open a $350 million factory near Sao Paulo with the capacity to build 40,000 Dakota pickup trucks a year. It is building an engine factory nearby in a joint venture with BMW, with production to begin in 1999. Chrysler for now has no plans to delay the factories, Ms. Mariperisena said.
While slower sales are the biggest problem facing auto makers in Brazil, further measures were announced today that could hurt their profits. Mercosur, the South American free trade zone, announced it would increase import duties by 3 percent on most products, which would include auto parts, but not fully assembled cars and trucks.
Delphi Automotive Systems, G.M.'s parts unit, with 12 factories in Brazil building parts for Volkswagen, Fiat, Ford, and G.M., along with other auto makers, has already reduced the number of parts it builds daily and has ordered fewer days' worth of parts from its suppliers, said David G. Bodkin, a spokesman.
Because Delphi's parts have just 40 percent Brazilian content on average, the tariff increase will raise its costs, Mr. Bodkin said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leaders in Brazil"
Two of America's Big Three sell large numbers of cars in Brazil; Chrysler's presence there is limited. Figures are for 1997 sales through September. Chart shows cars and light trucks sold (by Volkswagen, Fiat, General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler) and each company's market share in that region. (Source: J.D. Power & Associates)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VOW (FRA) (91%); VKW (LSE) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); FSOR (PAR) (84%); F (BIT) (84%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (84%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); ASIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (78%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO ; VOLKSWAGEN AG; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FIAT SPA VOLKSWAGEN AG (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); FIAT SPA (84%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (70%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO ; VOLKSWAGEN AG; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FIAT SPA

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; BRAZIL (99%); ASIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (78%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ; PRODUCTION; CURRENCY AUTOMAKERS (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TRENDS (78%); DEVALUATION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



337 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKET TURMOIL: THE INVESTORS;
Despite Market Turmoil, Cash Keeps Pouring Into Mutual Funds

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
In a demonstration of resilience following October's stock market turmoil, mutual fund investors have continued to funnel new money this month into mutual funds that invest in the largest American stocks, analysts say.
Indeed, despite three sharp market dips this year, cash flows into all stock funds in the first 10 months of 1997 have outpaced those recorded in the corresponding period last year, which was by far the best year ever for equity mutual funds. Since January, this year's cash flows had been lagging well behind last year's record pace, but strong numbers for October pushed the total for the year so far ahead of that for the first 10 months of 1996. 
 Investors did hesitate briefly in their fervor for equity funds when stock prices plunged on Oct. 24. And since then, they have made net withdrawals from funds that invest in foreign stock markets, which have fared poorly in the face of Asian currency devaluations and questions about Latin America's economic outlook, and from some types of small-stock funds.
But two independent trackers of cash flow data say that by the end of October, investors had resumed adding to their investments in broad United States equity funds, including the index funds that have proved so popular this year.
"There certainly is a large contingency that believes the market will continue to go up," said Robert Adler, president of AMG Data Services, an Arcata, Calif., company that tracks weekly cash flows. In the two weeks since Oct. 29, investors added $1.7 billion to stock funds of all types.
Similarly, Trim Tabs Financial Services, of Santa Rosa, Calif., reported that cash flows to domestic stock funds have gained strength in three out of four of its twice-weekly reporting periods since Oct. 27.
The Investment Company Institute, a mutual fund trade group, reported yesterday that fund investors added an estimated $21 billion to stock funds last month, down from $25.8 billion in September but up from $13.5 billion in October 1996. That brings the total this year to $198 billion, exceeding the $192 billion that stock funds received in the first 10 months of 1996, on their way to a record 12-month total of $221 billion.
For nearly three years, as record amounts of money have flowed into stock funds, analysts have wondered how fund shareholders would react if the stock market suffered a decline measuring more than 10 percent of the Dow Jones industrial average -- an event that had not occurred since the fall of 1990.
At its closing price on Oct. 27, the day that the Dow industrials fell 554 points, the bellwether index was more than 13 percent below its recent high. But investors held firm, contributing to the market's recovery despite continued market declines overseas. At yesterday's closing price of 7,487.76, the Dow industrials had moved back to within 10 percent of the record close, 8,259.31 on Aug. 7.
Stock prices have now gone through three sharp downdrafts this year, but in each case mutual fund investors have proved less likely to dramatically slow their new investments than they were in a similar period last year.
In July 1996, for example, when the Dow industrials swooned by nearly 7 percent in a week's time, cash flows into stock funds fell by more than 60 percent from the previous month's level.
This year, however, when stock prices dipped in March, August and, most recently, October, the amount of cash flowing into stock funds fell by much smaller amounts, measuring from 18 percent to 47 percent.
Last month's strong cash flows appear even more remarkable in light of recent big declines in overseas stock markets. According to both AMG and Trim Tabs, investors steadily withdrew money from international stock funds in October and so far this month.
The October cash flows reported by the trade group imply that much of that money was shifted into domestic stock funds, which would help to explain some of the resilience in American stocks since last month. Money flowing out of international stock funds could have given portfolio managers extra ability to buy domestic stocks at bargain prices in late October, despite the fact that fund managers had the lowest level of cash in their portfolios in nearly 21 years.
At the end of September, the average domestic equity fund had 5.1 percent of its assets in cash. Not since December 1976 had the level been lower, according to the trade group.
Final details on the Investment Company Institute's cash flow report, including a breakdown of the flows between domestic and international stock funds, will be released near the end of the month.
Much of the week-in, week-out strength in stock fund cash flows stems from participants in retirement programs, who typically have a certain amount of money automatically deducted from their paychecks each week, Mr. Adler said.
Therefore, the weekly and monthly cash flows "don't necessarily reflect short-term confidence," he said. "In those cases, investors have not made any decision except to continue to invest for the long term."
Retirement plans account for a growing portion of mutual fund assets, which this year topped $4 billion. At the end of 1996, retirement plans held 35 percent of all mutual fund assets, the Investment Company Institute reported recently.
Those assets are split about evenly between individual retirement accounts and employer-sponsored retirement plans, such as 401(k) and 403(b) plans. Although contributions to individual retirement accounts fell after the 1986 overhaul of the Tax Code, the accounts have continued to grow as employees moving from one company to another roll over assets from company-sponsored plans into the individual accounts.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows total cash flow (in billions) into equity mutual funds from 1990 through 1997 (first 10 months). (Source: Investment Company Institute)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE AMG DATA SERVICES (54%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (98%); CASH FLOW (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (87%); INDEX FUNDS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); DEVALUATION (53%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



338 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Yanks Need To Be Patient On Williams

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON 

 BODY:
THIS notion that the Yankees must trade Bernie Williams if they do not sign him to a long-term contract within several weeks is patently absurd, nothing more than a line of organizational propaganda as George Steinbrenner tries to pressure Williams into surrendering the leverage he has waited years to have.
The manipulative and flawed thinking goes like this: If Williams does not soon break and agree to their five-year, $37.5 million offer or perhaps a better one yet to come, the Yankees would be crazy to allow him back under another one-year deal. They could not take the risk of his leaving as a free agent next winter and getting nothing in return for their best all-round player. 
 Silly Question: Then where would they be?
Obvious Answer: Where they typically are, perusing the aisles of baseball's 24-hour talent supermarket.
If there is one thing an owner like Steinbrenner does not have to worry about, it is winding up where the Rangers did, unable to fill the hole in their offense after Mark Messier walked out on them. No restricted free agency and no shortage of teams desperate to unload high-priced talent add up to a crazy buyer's market for baseball's aristocrats.
The game's best starting pitcher, Pedro Martinez, will be changing teams in about 20 minutes because the Montreal Expos, who have surrendered a future Hall of Fame wing in recent years, simply can't afford him. Florida's World Series hitting star, Moises Alou, barely made it out of the Game 7 parking lot before his $5 million salary was dumped on Houston for two pitchers named X and Y. Just add Martinez and Alou to the growing list of transient stars in a sport where Mark McGwire could make a run at a 36-year-old home run record last summer then be pointed in the easterly direction of his previous blast.
McGwire. Larry Walker. David Justice. Albert Belle. Kenny Lofton. John Wetteland. Tino Martinez. Roger Clemens. Given the way marquee players and ordinary players have been changing teams, baseball should consider its own Home Shopping Network, as a replacement for those microscopically rated games of the week.
Hero today, gone tomorrow. Alou will be followed out of Miami by more multimillionaire Marlins, as the champs go on the cheap after payroll inflation brought them 15 minutes of fame, albeit at 12:30 in the morning. Florida is now baseball's poster franchise, its leading example of volatility, of how too many teams operate with a vision that is barely past their nose. Yesterday, the Marlins were the toast of culturally rich South Florida, and many points south. Today, they are toast.
I made this point to Williams's agent, Scott Boras, the other day, suggesting that his client should consider the possibility of landing with a team that would pay him more but whose field of dreams could, like Florida's, instantly turn to mud. Boras laughed -- a bit too derisively, I thought -- and asked: "Who creates a more volatile working environment than George Steinbrenner?"
On a day-to-day basis, that is true. But few owners in sports are as consistently competitive year to year, and that counts heavily, the way baseball's business is going. Steinbrenner's deep pockets and his insatiable appetite for success and the attention it brings will always keep Williams, a quiet star, protected in the lineup and the clubhouse.
It is not my business to tell the Yankees what they should offer Williams any more than it is to tell Williams what to take. But Boras insisted that Williams -- not pleased at how Steinbrenner has low-balled him in the past while spending freely on other team's free agents -- will roll the dice under another one-year deal and give Steinbrenner another chance next winter.
"We know what the market will be for him," Boras said. "And we just need one team."
Williams could get hurt, or have a lousy year. If he is willing to take those risks, why shouldn't the Yankees? Why should they dump a 29-year-old center fielder who has been a career-long Yankee, a Puerto Rican star in heavily Hispanic New York, without playing this out to the bottom of the ninth? No one is going to just hand the Yankees equal value to rent Williams for a year. If they should lose him next year, believe me, able-bodied replacements will suddenly become available. Poor teams will continue to regretfully jettison their stars. Steinbrenner will always have more money than they have. He can afford to wait this Williams thing out, and should.
The way baseball is going, Ken Griffey Jr. will be on that 24-hour supermarket shelf before long.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernie Williams. (Barton Silverman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); CANADA (54%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (54%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); MONTREAL EXPOS (54%); MONTREAL EXPOS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); MONTREAL EXPOS (54%); MONTREAL EXPOS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); CANADA (54%); FLORIDA, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (54%); MIAMI, FL, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY; WILLIAMS, BERNIE GEORGE STEINBRENNER (73%); MARK DOUGLAS MESSIER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



339 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Paybacks for Riders Sought As Transit Surplus Increases

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN 

 BODY:
The cash surplus at New York City Transit grew by an additional $19 million during September as riders continued to flock to buses and subways, according to figures to be officially released next week.
The new flood of money brought the surplus for the first three quarters of 1997 to $129 million and brought renewed calls from rider advocates for the transit agency to give the money back to riders in the form of fare cuts or increased service, lest it be snapped up by the city or the state. 
 When the agency, then known as the Transit Authority, ran up a $113 million surplus in 1994, the advocates have said, the city essentially claimed the money for itself by cutting its subsidies for student subway passes by that amount, leaving the authority to make up the difference.
But as they have for two months, officials at New York City Transit's parent agency, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, declined yesterday to outline their plans, if any, for the extra money.
"We are pleased with the numbers and continue to monitor the situation," said Tom Kelly, a spokesman for the M.T.A. He said officials might say more on Monday when the numbers are released at the transit agency's monthly committee meeting.
According to the figures released Wednesday by the Permanent Citizens Advisory Committee to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, an independent watchdog group within the agency, revenue from bus and subway riders exceeded expectations even more in September than in the previous two months, when the increases were so steep that officials said they were puzzled by them.
Bus revenue was 14 percent more than expected in September; subway revenue, up more than 6 percent. At the same time, revenue from the taxes that subsidize mass transit ran almost 10 percent ahead of schedule, a dividend of the city's continuing economic boom.
The surplus is a product of many factors, several of them tied to the big jump in ridership that followed the introduction of free bus-to-subway transfers in July. Transit officials had predicted that revenue would fall as more two-fare riders took advantage of the free transfers, and they drew up their budget accordingly.
What has happened instead is that the existence of the transfers has apparently attracted riders to the system who had avoided it altogether before, and thus revenue has increased, though not nearly as dramatically as ridership.
When a surplus was first revealed last month, transit officials played down its significance, saying that a few months of increased ridership were not a basis for making plans and warning that the gains could disappear overnight.
But with three months left in the agency's fiscal year and New York City Transit's cash flow only growing healthier, rider advocates expressed impatience.
"The M.T.A. can deny for only so long that it's sitting on a pile of cash," said Joseph G. Rappaport, the staff coordinator of the Straphangers Campaign. The group, along with the City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, has called on the M.T.A. to offer riders 12 fares for the price of 10, rather than the 11-for-10 deal the authority plans to begin offering in January.
Alan H. Foster, the citizens advisory committee's associate director, said that the money could also be saved to go toward future debt payments.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Passenger Revenues" shows expected and actual revenue from bus and subway fares. (Source: MTA New York City Transit)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (56%); T H E M INTERNATIONAL INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SUBWAYS; BUSES URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CASH FLOW (78%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



340 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKET TURMOIL: THE STREET;
Calmer Trading Overseas Helps Bolster U.S. Stocks

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks ended higher yesterday, bolstered in part by calmer markets overseas and by expectations that economic slowdowns in Asia and Latin America would keep United States interest rates low.
Such expectations overcame, at least for a day, concerns on how the overseas turmoil will hurt profits of American companies. Investors confidence was heightened in part by comments from Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman. He told the House Banking Committee that the problems in Asia and other regions would not threaten prosperity in the United States and could even help hold down inflation. 
 The turmoil in Asia and Latin America "ultimately will be beneficial to the U.S. economy, our stock market and also our bond market," said Robert Bloom, chief investment officer at the Friends Vilas-Fischer Trust Company in New York, which manages $2.4 billion.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 86.44, or 1.2 percent, to 7,487.76. The Dow began the day with an 87-point gain, tumbled to a 51-point loss and bounced back up again in a furious rally late in the session.
Other market indexes were higher. The Nasdaq composite index rose 16.02 points, or 1 percent, to 1,557.74, and the Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 10.70, or 1.2 percent, to 916.66.
United States stocks were also helped by gains in Hong Kong and Brazilian stocks. The Hang Seng index of 33 stocks, the Hong Kong market's main stock index, rose 112.87 points, or 1.17 percent, at 9,720.78. Brazil's 51-share Bovespa index, which fell 10.2 percent on Wednesday, closed up 250.02 points, or 3.20 percent, at 8,07203 yesterday.
"There's a seesaw going on here," said Andrew M. Brooks, vice president in charge of equity trading at T. Rowe Price Associates. "The Asian situation continues to be troublesome and of concern, and we're struggling to find some direction."
In Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 leading issues recovered from sharp losses to end down just 6.9 points yesterday.
Early today, however, Japanese stocks were lower. At the midday recess in trading, the Nikkei was down 206.29 points, or 1.34 percent, at 15,220.98.
Among individual issues, AT&T rose 2, to 48 3/4, for the biggest percentage rise in the Dow industrials, The Sprint Corporation rose 3 1/4, to 57 1/2, and the BellSouth Corporation gained 11/16, to 49 5/8. Worldcom Inc.'s acquisition of the MCI Communications Corporation puts pressure on big telephone companies to merge or form alliances, analysts say.
Computer-related shares, which plunged on Wednesday on concern that Southeast Asia's financial woes would hurt their profits, rebounded yesterday. Texas Instruments Inc. rose 3 3/4, to 97 1/2, after losing 12 1/2 points yesterday. The Dell Computer Corporation rose 5 1/16, to 77 1/16.
Auto and chemical shares sank. General Motors fell 9/16, to 62 1/4, and The DuPont Company lost 2, to 57.
Oil service stocks fell on concerns that sales cannot increase because drilling rigs are booked solid and that price increases could delay some drilling by oil companies in the future, analysts said. "That's worrisome in the environment of very robust valuations," said Byron Dunn, an analyst with SBC Warburg Dillon Read Inc.
The Cooper Cameron Corporation lost 3 5/8, to 70; Tidewater Inc. fell 3 3/8, to 62, and the Halliburton Company fell 2 13/16, to 53 1/2.
 
ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 
Charts: "Back to Square One"
Some high-flying markets have recently lost most or all the gains they had accumulated this year. Charts show stock market indexes (for the countries: Brazil, Mexico, United States, Britian, Japan, and Hong Kong) from January through November of 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: S (NYSE) (84%); VZC (LSE) (81%); VZ (NYSE) (81%); TXN (NASDAQ) (60%); TROW (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (81%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (61%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (61%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (60%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); HONG KONG (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); MEXICO (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (84%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (81%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (61%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (60%); T ROWE PRICE GROUP INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; LATIN AMERICA; BRAZIL; HONG KONG; ; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); HONG KONG (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); MEXICO (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX ; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BONDS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



341 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: South African Tycoons Apologize for Gaining From Apartheid

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Nov. 13

 BODY:
For the last three days, South Africa has been treated to a remarkable sight: the chief executives of the nation's biggest corporations and banks lining up to apologize for their actions over the last century.
The venue is the Truth and Reconciliation Commission's hearings into the ways business supported apartheid or violated human rights during the era of white rule. Since the Commission's attention is usually focused on grieving families and police torturers, the parade of men in sober but beautifully cut suits was unusual. Also unusually, their submissions were meticulously prepared, and not one witness wept. 
 Mining executives admitted that exploiting racial and tribal divisions helped cut labor costs. Afrikaner executives admitted that close association with government officials won them contracts. However, all concluded that the economy would have been far stronger if apartheid had never existed because it brought the world's wrath down on them.
Not everyone said "sorry." Some sounded more sincere, some less, and there was some cattiness in the halls as captains of industry quietly graded each others' performances. In general, one mining executive observed, the new bosses of Government-controlled institutions like the Land and Agricultural Bank and the Eskom electric utility offered the most heartfelt apologies, for acts by long-gone predecessors.
No unsolved murders were elucidated, but the executives were specific in detailing some things they regretted. Sanlam, an insurance conglomerate, expressed sorrow that the killing of Steven Biko took place in a building it rented to the police. Anglo-American, the huge conglomerate founded on gold mining, expressed regret that it never built family housing for more than 1 percent of its black miners. However, executives were careful to place it in context: Anglo-American had wanted to build family housing for 10 percent, but was forbidden to do so by the Government.
That plea for understanding was characteristic of the tone of the hearings. For years, many executives in the liberal English-dominated business community took the line that apartheid was evil, but they were powerless to stop it. Labor and anti-apartheid activists retorted that if corporations were brave enough to quit paying taxes, apartheid would crumble.
Very few executives openly opposed apartheid until the mid-1980's, when sanctions began crippling the economy. Meanwhile, many companies helped the Government evade trade sanctions, thwart the oil embargo and the United Nations arms embargo so effectively that the country built a powerful arms industry and even nuclear weapons.
The hearings, intended to show that apartheid was as much business as politics, began with Archbishop Desmond M. Tutu, the chairman, saying he was disappointed at some "glaring absences." White labor unions, white farming and wine-making cooperatives and the oil companies had offered no submissions.
Today, Cedric Savage, chief executive of Tongaat-Hulett, a sugar company employing 20,000 South Africans, handled sharp questions about his company's relations with the security police, its handling of the killing of an anti-apartheid activist on its property and whether it amassed its vast plantations legally.
"You feel as if you're on the rack," he said afterward, adding that he believed in what the commission was doing. "You're defensive, but you're not wanting to be."
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: LAND & AGRICULTURAL BANK OF SOUTH AFRICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS EXECUTIVES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); ARMS TRADE (84%); WITNESSES (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); FAMILY (76%); MINE WORKERS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); MINES & MINING (70%); GOLD MINING (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%); MURDER (65%); ARMS EMBARGOES (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); POLITICS (60%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (51%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR CHRISTIAN PIERRET (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



342 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Gains for Treasury Bonds Are Pared by Stock Rally

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices overcame early weakness yesterday, only to fall victim again to a rally in stocks.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond ended unchanged at 100 13/32, leaving its yield at 6.10 percent. 
 Support for bonds came from a Government report that showed third-quarter productivity was larger than expected and from comments by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman.
In testimony before the House Banking Committee, Mr. Greenspan indicated that the Southeast Asian financial turmoil would dampen export growth in the United States, muting inflationary pressures.
"The forces that have emerged out of the Southeast Asian difficulties are imparting a disinflationary effect on the United States and others," Mr. Greenspan said.
Analysts said that Mr. Greenspan's comments gave some market participants hope that the Fed would not raise rates in the months to come.
On Wednesday, the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's policy making panel, as expected, left short-term interest rates unchanged. While recent strong economic reports have revived concerns that the Fed would soon raise rates, the turmoil in Asia appears to have stayed the Fed's hand.
"The fact that the Fed did not tighten the Federal funds rate at yesterday's F.O.M.C. meeting despite surprisingly strong recent domestic economic data indicates that the Fed really views the potential ultimate U.S. consequences of the Asian financial crisis as possibly serious," said Maury N. Harris, chief economist at Paine Webber Inc.
But he added, "Looking ahead, we still do not expect the Fed to tighten at its final 1997 F.O.M.C. meeting."
Treasury securities also received a lift after the Government reported that nonfarm productivity rose 4.5 percent in the third quarter, exceeding expectation and posting the largest gain since the fourth quarter of 1992.
Many economists have pointed to productivity gains as the reason inflationary pressure remains contained despite robust growth.
Yesterday's productivity report was "a big positive for the inflation outlook despite the effects of a tighter labor market," said Sherry Cooper, chief economist at Nesbitt Burns Securities.
Mr. Harris of Paine Webber noted that strong productivity gains also effectively raised the Fed's speed limit for noninflationary growth.
Traders said the Fed was in the market yesterday for the second time this week as a buyer of coupons with maturities ranging from Nov. 15, 1999, to Oct. 31, 2002, even though there had been expectations of what is generally referred to as a "coupon pass."
"Despite constructive comments from Mr. Greenspan," said David Ader, regional director at Technical Data in Boston, "a coupon pass and an amazingly constructive production report, the bond market could not lose its fascination with equities."
Bond prices fell in the afternoon as stocks climbed. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 86.44 points, or 1.17 percent.
Today, the bond market turns its attention to reports on October retail sales and producer prices.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Tax-Exempt Yields"
Average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent. Chart shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds (in percent) from July through November 1997. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TECHNICAL DATA SYSTEMS (50%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (74%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (74%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); BONDS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); INTEREST RATES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (55%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



343 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Co-op in Unusual Site Pushes Plan Toward Goal

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
Like a sentinel, the 42-story Citylights building looms over Long Island City's scattering of stooped row houses and aluminum-sided homes with their chain-link-fenced backyards, dwarfing even the smokestacks of abandoned factories and the steeple of St. Mary's Church just to the east.
The residential tower -- with its three hues of brick, terraces and gently arched roof -- seems plucked from Manhattan's affluent precincts and plunked among the auto body shops, loading docks and weeded-over train tracks along spits of land and inlets that etch the Queens shore of the East River. 
 Eighteen months ago, there was only a hole in the ground.
But since January, 10,000 potential buyers have made inquiries about a building that even its sponsors saw as unusually situated, and 6,000 have filled out financial questionnaires.
"Sales have been brisk," said Fred Harris, vice president of the Trotwood Corporation, a Mellon Bank subsidiary that, along with real estate stalwarts like Worldwide Holdings, William Zeckendorf Jr. and James Wolfenson, has developed Citylights.
What government planners envisioned in the early 1980's was a Battery Park-like development called Queens West. Sixteen sites along a mile of waterfront were designated for residential buildings, with 20 of the 78 acres set aside for green space and an esplanade. Only now, with construction of Citylights, has that grand plan begun coming to fruition.
So, to the west through the wide windows of the 521-unit co-op, the saw-toothed skyline of Manhattan glitters on the far side of the river, and to the north, cables draped like a Victorian-era necklace swoop toward ornate finials atop the Queensboro Bridge.
"Seems like a superb place to grow a residential community," said Herbert Sturz, president of the Trotwood Corporation.
Queens West is a partnership involving the Port Authority, the New York City Economic Development Corporation and the Empire State Development Corporation, with the goal of transforming what Mr. Sturz called the "pioneering site" that is Long Island City.
Along with a novel financing plan that allows some "pioneers" to buy apartments for less than $25,000, it was that opulent view, wrested from an essentially industrial neighborhood, that developers of Citylights hoped would bring in buyers.
Contracts have been signed for 228 of the 521 apartments, and about 100 are already occupied. "We expect to sell out by June," Mr. Sturz said.
With more than 6,000 applications filed, a lottery was held to handle the first 4,000, those received by March 1. But it was not a pure lottery, because the sponsors committed to set aside 70 units for households with incomes below $57,000 a year.
"We've attracted waiters and waitresses, architects and court clerks, teachers and some very wealthy people," Mr. Sturz said. The remaining 2,000 applications will be handled on a first-come, first-served basis.
The application process has not always been smooth.
"My patience was tested through a number of unnecessary delays; you really need to be persistent," says one message on a web site devoted to the Queens West development: www.licweb.com/qwbbs.
"They don't answer their voice mail," said Martin Hollander, a Suffolk County resident who would like to buy a one-bedroom apartment. "I'm disquieted by their clumsy handling of the applications. The problem is people like to make plans."
The problem, Mr. Harris said, is a deluge of people hungry for a good deal.
Prices at Citylights have been kept considerably lower than market rates in affluent sections of the city through an unusual financing structure.
Normally, a buyer makes a down payment of about 20 percent and obtains a personal share loan (the co-op equivalent of a mortgage) to pay off the rest of the purchase price. Then, a part of the shareholder's monthly maintenance charge is used to pay off the so-called underlying mortgage obtained by the developer to finance the entire building. But the developers of Citylights have, in effect, reversed the process, making it possible to keep the purchase price low while increasing that part of the maintenance used to pay down the underlying mortgage.
The $85.6 million mortgage for Citylights has been financed by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Housing Investment Trust, with the mortgage insured by the Federal Housing Administration, permitting the trust to charge only 7.75 percent interest a year.
So, rather than charging market-rate prices for the units and using the money from sales to pay off the underlying mortgage, the developers have set purchase prices low and charged higher than normal maintenance fees to help pay off the mortgage.
The relatively low mortgage rate and the low sales prices have allowed many families who have insufficient funds to qualify for an individual apartment loan and even, in some cases, to pay the entire purchase price without obtaining a loan. Because a higher proportion of the maintenance pays the interest on the underlying mortgage, a higher proportion of the maintenance is tax-deductible, keeping the after-tax cost lower than in a comparable building.
Now, a new pricing schedule is about to be submitted to the State Attorney General's office. Under the plan, 154 of the 521 apartments will be priced at or below $30,000, with the lowest price -- for a third-floor studio on the building's north side -- set at $10,994 and a maintenance charge of $540. The most expensive apartment in the building will sell for $225,000, with a maintenance of $2,730.
More typically, a one-bedroom apartment on a lower floor with a dining room that could be converted to a small bedroom will cost $25,250 with a maintenance charge of $1,250. That apartment's share of the underlying mortgage, payments for which are included in the monthly maintenance, is estimated at $133,000. And a similar one-bedroom unit on the 39th floor, would be $69,000 with maintenance of $1,760.
Lori Sanford-Ross, a refugee assistance agency manager, and her husband, Sid Ross, a playwright, paid $38,500 for a two-bedroom overlooking the river and moved in two months ago.
"It's true there's no great produce store around here, no butcher shop, but it's becoming more like a neighborhood," Ms. Sanford-Ross said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Queens, the 42-story Citylights building, now selling co-ops, looms over Long Island City, towering above the steeple of St. Mary's Church. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)
 
Map of Queens showing location of the Citylights building: The Citylights building is part of a Queens West development plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: QUEENS WEST EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (64%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: QUEENS WEST

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND CITY (NYC); QUEENS (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS FRED ROY HARRIS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



344 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: In Slap at U.S., Israel Reduces Role at Talks

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Nov. 13

 BODY:
With growing numbers of Arab countries staying away from the Middle East economic conference in Doha, Qatar, to protest against Israel's policies, Israel announced today that Foreign Minister David Levy would not attend.
The announcement said that the Industry and Trade Minister, Natan Sharansky, would lead the Israeli delegation instead. 
 The announcement dealt a final blow to American efforts to keep the three-day regional conference at a respectable diplomatic level. Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright is scheduled to attend part of the conference, and she had made direct appeals to Israel and to moderate Arab countries to take part.
But the announcement by Egypt that it would stay away from Doha -- along with Morocco and Saudi Arabia, among Arab countries friendly to Washington -- dealt a serious blow to the conference and prompted Mr. Levy to cancel. The Israelis were reported to be further concerned that the Emir of Qatar, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, , would not receive Mr. Levy, while Shimon Peres, former Prime Minister under the Labor Party, and a guest at Doha, was certain of a warm reception.
In announcing his decision to pull Egypt out, President Hosni Mubarak accused the Israeli Government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of undermining peace efforts with the Palestinians by continuing with the expansion of settlements and by failing to honor commitments under the Oslo agreements. "All contacts, meetings, conferences, shuttle missions and all international efforts have failed to achieve progress as the Israeli Government never keeps its promises," he said. The process was at a "dead end," he declared.
Other Arab officials said the boycott was also aimed at the United States, which is blamed by many Arabs for failing to put pressure on Israel to honor obligations undertaken under American sponsorship.
So far, the Palestinian Authority of Yasir Arafat has not announced its intentions. In fact, only four Arab states in addition to Qatar have confirmed they will participate this year -- Jordan, Kuwait, Oman and Yemen. Syria and Lebanon have boycotted all the annual conferences, while Libya and Iraq have not been invited.
The first two Middle East and North Africa conferences, in Casablanca in 1994 and Amman in 1995, drew large numbers of participants and were held in an air of high optimism. Both Yitzhak Rabin and Mr. Peres -- who were Prime Minister and Foreign Minister at the time -- attended. At last year's conference in Cairo, the mood was considerably more dour, but Mr. Levy did attend.
In an interview with an Israeli newspaper published today, and again in comments in Gaza today, Mr. Arafat declared that even if no agreement is reached with Israel by the end of the century, he would proclaim a Palestinian state. The Oslo agreements set a five-year timetable for a final settlement between Israel and the Palestinians, which was to be reached by the end of 1999.
"They had better listen well," Mr. Arafat told the tabloid Yediot Ahronot. "We will declare the establishment of an independent and sovereign Palestinian state before the end of the century. That is our right and our duty to our people who have made so many great sacrifices so as to be a free people in its land -- in the land of its forefathers."
"We will declare the establishment of a state whether Netanyahu wants it or not. That will happen at the conclusion of the five years of the interim agreement according to the Oslo Accords, in other words, after September 1999. Even if part of the state remains under occupation and contains settlements. This mission cannot be stopped by any force in the world. It is our sacred right."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
No Snub Intended; Just a Delay
 WASHINGTON, Nov. 13 (AP) -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who was omitted from President Clinton's schedule for next week, will instead be invited to meet with Mr. Clinton in early December, a White House spokeswoman said today.
"We don't have a precise day, but we're closing in on one," said the spokeswoman, Anne Luzzato.
In what was characterized by some as a snub, White House officials said earlier this week that Mr. Clinton's schedule could not accommodate Mr. Netanyahu next week, when he will be in the United States on a speaking tour. Mr. Netanyahu, not due to return until February, will make a special trip to Washington early next month, an Israeli diplomat said.
Ms. Luzzato denied any slight to the Prime Minister, saying his meeting had "always been a matter of 'when, not if;' now we have the 'when.' "
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); QATAR (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); EGYPT (93%); JORDAN (79%); MOROCCO (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); OMAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; QATAR; ISRAEL; ISRAEL (99%); QATAR (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); EGYPT (93%); JORDAN (79%); MOROCCO (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); OMAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (87%); TRENDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SPACE SHUTTLE (50%); 

PERSON: LEVY, DAVID (MIN); SHARANSKY, NATAN (MIN) SHIMON PERES (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); HOSNI MUBARAK (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



345 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Action Halts Effort To Curb Arms

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Iraq's expulsion of six American weapons inspectors today brought an effective halt to an effort that has been at the center of the United Nations mission in Iraq for nearly seven years. Richard Butler, the head of the United Nations team charged with ferreting out Iraqi efforts to acquire weapons of mass destruction, said that only a skeleton staff would be left in place after all United Nations inspectors are withdrawn Friday.
Iraq's decision to make good on its threat to expel the Americans was announced in an afternoon television broadcast that included wartime footage of flames, blood and human suffering in an effort demonstrate the Baghdad Government's resolve. 
 The order covered all of the American inspectors in Iraq as part of a United Nations team, and it declared that they would not be permitted to return "until the American Administration and the Security Council decide to review their irresponsible policy and their dealing with Iraq," according to the Iraqi broadcast.
Mr. Butler tried to persuade Iraqi officials to permit the Americans to postpone their departure until Friday morning, so that they might join the 78 other inspectors who are being withdrawn aboard a United Nations flight to Bahrain. But Iraqi officials refused that request, insisting that the Americans travel overland and depart by day's end.
The Iraqi News Agency reported that the Americans left Baghdad shortly before 11 P.M., local time, and television pictures showed their convoy of Toyota Land Cruisers heading toward the divided highway that crosses the rugged desert to Amman, at least 12 hours away.
As it has since it first declared its intent to expel the American inspectors on Oct. 29, Iraq proclaimed its willingness today to cooperate with United Nations inspectors from every country other than the United States.
But the United Nations has repeatedly refused to accept such conditions.
Iraq has grown increasingly frustrated in recent months at its failure to win an easing of the crippling economic sanctions maintained by the United Nations -- and insisted upon by the United States -- since its forces invaded Kuwait in 1990. It has accused American inspectors of acting as instruments of an effort by the United States to maintain those sanctions in perpetuity.
Those charges have been angrily rejected both in Washington and by the United Nations.
Over the last week, the Iraqi Government had suspended the expulsion of Americans while there seemed to be some chance that the United Nations might agree to scale back their role. But after it became clear that the possibility did not exist, Iraq ratcheted the confrontation to a new level of crisis.
Mr. Butler said in New York that all but nine of the remaining weapons inspectors in Iraq would leave on the flight to Bahrain on Friday morning. He said that the team to be left behind would be too small to maintain an effective regime of monitoring and inspecting Iraq's weapons facilities. That effort is intended to insure that Iraq carries out obligations imposed by the Security Council after the Persian Gulf war.
These include the destruction of nuclear, chemical, biological, and conventional weapons or their components and allowing the United Nations to monitor important sites to insure that Iraq does not resume its weapons-building efforts. As American officials including President Clinton have pointed out in recent days, the team's work has led to the destruction of more Iraqi weapons than were destroyed by weeks of relentless American and allied bombardment during the 1991 war.
But the United Nations team has not carried out any inspections since Oct. 29, when Iraq first blocked American inspectors from those operations and the United Nations declared that it would not proceed without them. The inspectors are expected to remain in Bahrain, a staging area for the United Nations operations in Iraq, for some time.
Most of the 105 weapons inspectors and logisticians in Iraq packed their bags two weeks ago in preparation for a swift departure, a United Nations official in Baghdad said by telephone tonight. But the official described a scene of hurry and some tension as the Americans and others made ready to leave today.
In the last week, the number of organized demonstrations in Baghdad has increased sharply, with several taking place outside the United Nations headquarters there, where hundreds of young men have gathered almost daily to shout their disapproval of the United States and the United Nations. Even after the departure of the inspectors, some 400 other United Nations personnel will remain in Baghdad, and a spokesman there, Eric Falt, said today that the security situation could be best described as "calm but generally tense."
Iraqi officials have said they are prepared to bear the consequences of defying the United Nations, and in recent days they have opened presidential palaces to hundreds of ordinary citizens, who have taken up places there as a deterrent to possible American bomb or missile strikes.
Diplomats in Baghdad say that at the same time, long lines have begun to appear at gas stations and some stores, an apparent sign of apprehension at the prospect of military action.
Since the United Nations began its bid several years ago to oversee the destruction of Iraqi weapons, it has weathered dozens of confrontations between its personnel and Iraqi officials who have barred them from key sites, often for days at a time.
The United States has taken significant military action against Iraq three times since the Gulf war, but none of those confrontations was over the issue of access for arms inspectors. The strikes -- two in 1993, and one last year -- were in response to other Iraqi violations of United Nations rules and to Iraq's alleged role in ordering an assassination attempt against former President Bush in Kuwait.
In seeking to play down the significance of Iraq's expulsion order, Tariq Aziz, the Deputy Prime Minister, told reporters in New York that the United Nations inspection team "could fully perform its duties" with inspectors of its choosing -- "except the Americans."
Mr. Aziz said that Iraq was determined only to force an end to the dominant role played by Americans on the inspection team "so that it becomes a real and genuine international organ, not an American-led organ." He said that Mr. Butler alone should be considered responsible for the loss of inspections that would result from his decision to withdraw inspectors of other nationalities.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Saddam Hussein of Iraq met with members of the ruling Baath Party in Baghdad yesterday, as all American members of the United Nations disarmament commission were ordered to leave the country. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Map of Jordan showing location of Amman: American arms experts were ordered to go overland to Amman.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); JORDAN (92%); BAHRAIN (92%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS IRAQI NEWS AGENCY (54%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); JORDAN (92%); BAHRAIN (92%); KUWAIT (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (75%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; BUTLER, RICHARD SADDAM HUSSEIN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



346 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Honda, Beating Out G.M., Plans to Build Cars in China

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Beating out a competing bid by the General Motors Corporation, the Honda Motor Company announced today that it had won the right to manufacture passenger cars at a plant in southern China.
Honda executives said the venture, their first auto assembly operation in China's perplexing car market, would involve a $200 million investment with two local partners to produce a model resembling the Honda Accord. Honda will take a 50 percent stake. 
 Yet Honda is essentially betting it can succeed where the French auto maker PSA Peugeot Citroen failed. Honda plans to use the same plant in Guangzhou that Peugeot vacated early this year, frustrated by low output, rising debt and squabbles with its local partner.
Honda executives, like their counterparts at other auto makers, expressed faith that the long-term potential in China's passenger car market was worth the considerable near-term difficulties, like bureaucratic interference, inadequate sourcing and an insular distribution network.
"We believe the Chinese market has the potential for further expansion in the future," Yoshihide Munekuni, Honda's chairman, told a news conference in Tokyo. "We will study the possibility of exports from the Chinese plant in the future."
General Motors expressed disappointment, but said it would not affect a larger commitment to G.M.'s $1.5 billion plant now under construction in Shanghai, where it plans to produce Buicks in 18 months.
"We regret that it was not possible for Opel/G.M. to reach agreement with the authorities in Guangzhou," G.M. said. "We believe our proposal, which provided a substantial investment in Guangzhou, would have been a viable business opportunity for all parties concerned."
Honda's local partners are the Guangzhou Auto Group Corporation, which Peugeot executives blamed for making their venture more trouble than it was worth, and the Dongfeng Motor Corporation, already a partner with Honda at a plant that produces engine and suspension components for export to other Honda plants in Asia.
The new Honda venture plans to start modestly, calling for just 30,000 vehicles a year. The first cars will be assembled in late 1999, Honda said.
The new venture will also give Honda its first automobile sales channel in the Chinese market, Mr. Munekuni said in Tokyo, where the No. 3 Japanese auto maker's plans were announced together with an upbeat earnings report timed to coincide with a visit to Japan by China's Prime Minister, Li Peng. Honda said earnings rose 33 percent in the six months ended Sept. 30, powered by strong exports to the United States and Europe.
Mr. Munekuni promised that the new venture would not assume Guangzhou Auto's existing debt, though its size was not disclosed.
"Debts of Guangzhou Peugeot Automobile will be settled by the Guangzhou government," he said.
The first step in a long series of approvals that Honda must win, the Honda chairman added, is to apply to the central Government for permission to start a feasibility study on the venture. Formal approval of the venture will follow at a later date, barring insurmountable obstacles.
Guangzhou Auto hopes to become one of a handful of auto-making conglomerates that emerge in China in the coming decade. Officials in Beijing have said they hope to consolidate the nation's 123 auto assembly plants into a dozen companies as part of an overall plan to make the nation's cumbersome state-run industry more efficient.
Though its potential is tantalizingly large, China's auto market is still relatively small. Passenger cars account for only about a quarter of the 1.5 million vehicles assembled here, which are mostly trucks and vans.
One perennially touchy issue in China's car manufacturing is the amount of local content in autos made by international car makers. Honda said 40 percent of the China-made Accords would be made with local components in the first year, though that number is expected to rise in subsequent years.
Required to work with a local partner, international auto makers have rarely been able to profit in China. The outlook for car makers has grown hazier in recent months, as car sales have dropped, and the recent economic downturn in Southeast Asia is not expected to help.
By contrast, Honda's most lucrative markets are in the West, which was reflected in the six-month earnings report the company released today. Helped by the diminished value of the yen, Honda's exports almost doubled to meet strong demand in Europe and the United States. Honda vehicle sales rose 16 percent in the United States, to about half a million. A popular seller was the CR-V sport utility vehicle, which Honda began selling in the United States in February. European buyers snapped up CR-V's and Civics.
The export markets compensated for weak sales in Japan. Like Japan's other car manufacturers, Honda has been hurt by an increase in the Japanese sales tax, the elimination of tax rebates and an increase in health insurance premiums. Also, mini-cars, which produce less profit, are accounting for a bigger portion of Honda's domestic sales.
In the fiscal first half, which ended Sept. 30, net income rose to 126.49 billion yen, or $1.02 billion, from 94.91 billion yen a year earlier. Sales increased 13 percent, to 2.794 trillion yen from 2.479 trillion yen.
Honda also acknowledged that the Southeast Asian economic crisis would hurt its sales in the region. It lowered its full-year forecast for production in Asia outside of Japan by 30 percent, to 130,000 units. But it raised its full-year export target by 21 percent, to 570,000 autos.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UG (PAR) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); 0489 (HKSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (91%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); 

CITY: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; GUANGZHOU AUTO GROUP CORP; DONGFENG MOTOR CORP PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (95%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); DONGFENG MOTOR GROUP CO LTD (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; GUANGZHOU AUTO GROUP CORP; DONGFENG MOTOR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (71%); SOUTH CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (91%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); EXPORT CONTROLS (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); COMPANY EARNINGS (60%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



347 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKET TURMOIL: THE FALLOUT;
Chase's Trading Losses in October Totaled $160 Million Before Taxes

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
Whipsawed by the economic turmoil sweeping across Asia and Latin America, the Chase Manhattan Corporation, the nation's largest bank, said yesterday that it had suffered a pretax trading loss of $160 million for October.
Chase said the loss after taxes would be about $100 million and would threaten the New York bank's ability to meet operating earnings growth of 15 percent for the year. The announcement by Chase was its first confirmation of reports that sharp drops in the price of emerging-market debt during the last week of October had made a significant dent. The bank said it did not expect trading results for November to be as grim. 
 Chase had overall trading revenue of $1.9 billion in the first nine months of this year.
Chase's Latin American trading operation primarily makes a market in Mexican, Argentine and Brazilian sovereign debt through its New York and London trading desks. Smaller regional desks in those countries trade bank notes and similar instruments. Traders said sharp downturns in Brazil did the most damage to Chase, though the bank has also been sideswiped by tens of millions of dollars in trading losses in Russia.
Analysts had been expecting Chase to earn $2.27 a share for the fourth quarter and $8.61 a share for the year, according to a consensus estimate by First Call. First Call said 5 of the 20 bank analysts it surveys lowered their estimates for Chase yesterday, reducing the fourth-quarter consensus to $1.82 a share.
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, Chase's shares rose 50 cents, to $107.25, after a big decline the day before. The price of the stock, which had plummeted over the last few weeks, apparently already reflected the trading losses. Other bank stocks rebounded more sharply, and it is becoming clear that serious emerging-market losses appear to be limited to Chase. Banks have started filing their third-quarter reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any material trading losses suffered by the end of October would have to be reported in those filings.
A Citicorp spokeswoman said that "nothing we've experienced requires us to change our practice of not discussing results." A spokeswoman for J. P. Morgan & Company said her bank had nothing material to report. Traders said the bank did not suffer any sizable emerging-market losses in October and was still in the black for November.
The Bankers Trust New York Corporation said it was not planning to make any disclosures regarding trading losses. The BankAmerica Corporation, which has had average trading revenue of $70 million a month this year, said October results were below that average but still positive for the month. The BankBoston Corporation did not respond to inquiries.
"We believe that the severity of this situation will prove to be specific to Chase rather than impacting each of the major dealer banks to a similar degree," said Diane Glossman, an analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc. "If there's anything else bigger than a bread box, they'll have to disclose it."
Ms. Glossman said she had lowered her fourth-quarter earnings estimate for Chase to $1.90 a share from $2.27 and her 1997 estimate to $8.30 a share from $8.65.
Peter Tobin, the chief financial officer of Chase, declined to break out the trading losses by country. And he said foreign exchange and derivatives trading "did very well -- no issues there."
Mr. Tobin said that trading revenue accounted for only about 15 percent of Chase's total revenue and that he expected the bank over all to earn substantial profits in the fourth quarter and for the year. He said the turmoil that began in the last week of October, after economic downturns in Asia set off a decline in Latin American markets, was unique.
Nonetheless, Judah Kraushaar, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company, said: "The trading hit was larger than I expected. They've been saying that their currency and derivatives trading was O.K., so this looks like the emerging markets really hurt them."
And banks may not be out of the woods yet. Financial markets remain volatile, meaning that banks could still be vulnerable to damage from overseas.
"This whole environment is still unfolding," Mr. Kraushaar said. "This is a work in progress, unfortunately."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); MEXICO (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; LATIN AMERICA; LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); MEXICO (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; FINANCES; COMPANY REPORTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT NOTES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT (70%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



348 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Sale of One Penn Plaza Could Happen Today

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Steven Roth's Vornado Realty Trust is expected to win out in the bidding for One Penn Plaza, a 2.4-million-square-foot tower next to Madison Square Garden, in a deal that would give the publicly traded company control of about one-third of the real estate in the neighborhood.
Mr. Roth may sign a contract as early as today to buy the property, according to two real estate executives who spoke on condition of anonymity. One of them said Vornado would pay more than $420 million and would have to make a down payment of 10 percent. 
 If the deal is completed, Vornado will have invested more than $700 million in the area since March. Although the blocks surrounding Madison Square Garden and Pennsylvania Station do not attract blue chip corporations or command the high rents of midtown, Vornado is betting that the area will become the next booming retail and commercial mecca in the city.
"Steve Roth is a big believer in the retail value of all the space that surrounds Penn Station," said Richard Baxter, a senior managing director at Insignia/Edward S. Gordon Company. "His strategy focuses on economies of scale. Between the hotel, the office space and the retail, he'll create value in the entire area."
But gaining control of One Penn Plaza presents a thorny challenge for Mr. Roth, whose company is one of the most voracious buyers of real estate in New York. The building's owners are the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company which has a 43 percent stake, and two feuding partners: Leona Helmsley, who holds 28.5 percent, and Peter Malkin, who heads a group that also has 28.5 percent. The land beneath the building is owned separately by Sarah Korein, one of the city's wealthiest landowners, and is not for sale.
Met Life initiated the sale in October when about a dozen prospective buyers submitted bids for the 25-year-old tower, which was recently renovated for $26 million. Company officials would not comment.
"We're in the final stages of marketing the building, but it would be premature to discuss any of the details," said Tricia Brown, a spokeswoman for Met Life.
According to executives close to the talks, Vornado submitted the highest bid and has held discussions with all the other partners.
Met Life's partners, however, have the right to match any offer within 30 days and to buy the property themselves. Mr. Malkin, who is in a bitter public battle with Mrs. Helmsley, has said privately that he wants the tower. Mrs. Helmsley has indicated that she would sell her interest for the right price, just as she is trying to sell most of the $5 billion Helmsley real estate holdings. But few people who know her believe that she would let One Penn Plaza go to Mr. Malkin, a partner whom she excluded from the funeral of her husband, Harry Helmsley, in January.
Mr. Malkin's prospects for buying the building are complicated by the fact that his group includes Alvin Schwartz and Irving Schneider, also former partners of Mr. Helmsley. Mr. Schneider has allied with Mrs. Helmsley against Mr. Malkin and may try to block the purchase.
"We haven't seen a contract yet, but we will look at all our options carefully," said Mr. Schwartz's lawyer, Howard Graff of Baer, Marks & Upham. "We're prepared to do what we have to do to protect our client's interests."
In any event, Mr. Malkin alone could make it difficult, though not impossible, for Vornado to take over the building, or he could agree to a sale.
Vornado has been a speculative juggernaut. In March, the company took over 2 Penn Plaza and 11 Penn Plaza, two towers looming over Madison Square Garden with a total of 2.7 million square feet, when it acquired the real estate portfolio of Bernard Mendik in a $656 million deal.
Mr. Roth's company then bought a 50 percent stake in June in the 1,700-room Hotel Pennsylvania, across the street from Madison Square Garden, as part of a $160 million joint venture with Planet Hollywood International and the billionaire Ong Beng Seng. At the same time, Vornado added three small office buildings on 34th Street.
Vornado is also among a group of eight companies vying for the landmark Chrysler Building at 42d Street and Lexington Avenue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (91%); MET (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (66%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (66%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST VORNADO REALTY TRUST (91%); METLIFE INC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: VORNADO REALTY TRUST

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; ONE PENN PLAZA (NYC) REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); 

PERSON: ROTH, STEVE STEVEN ROTH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



349 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Former Mayor Wins an Upset In Miami Ballot

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Former Mayor Xavier Suarez upset Mayor Joe Carollo today in a runoff election that had been filled with mud-slinging and charges of ballot fraud.
With all precincts reporting, Mr. Suarez had 23,598 votes, or 53.2 percent, while Mr. Carollo had 20,739 votes, or 46.8 percent. 
 The runoff was necessary since Mr. Carollo failed to win a majority in the regular election last week.
Mr. Carollo sued to have the absentee ballots in last week's mayoral election thrown out because of allegations of ballot fraud. Mr. Carollo had a majority of regular ballots but Mr. Suarez won about two-thirds of the absentee ballots.
Last night Mr. Suarez said: "We won by more regular votes, non-absentee ballot votes. What are they going to say now? We did everything by the book."
Mr. Suarez had complained that news coverage of the allegations had hurt his campaign and his reputation.
State Attorney Katherine Fernandez Rundle has called on a grand jury to investigate the absentee ballot process in Dade County and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement has seized over 5,000 absentee ballots from last week's election. Two men, one who said he was a volunteer for the Suarez campaign, have been arrested and charged with ballot fraud.
The State Law Enforcement Department for the first time monitored the election, checking absentee ballots as they were turned in to election headquarters.
Mr. Carollo battled many critics as he struggled to weather the storm of a $68 million budget deficit last year and has fought to clear the city's name amidst a slew of corruption scandals. Mr. Suarez has argued that the Mayor had exaggerated the city's financial crisis in order to elevate his status as the politician who saved the city.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS BALLOTS (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); MAYORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ARRESTS (73%); GRAND JURY (73%); SCANDALS (73%); ELECTION MONITORING (73%); BUDGETS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: SUAREZ, XAVIER; CAROLLO, JOE (MAYOR) XAVIER LOUIS SUAREZ (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



350 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Congress Votes Down Foreign Policy Proposals
Congress voted down a White House plan to make overdue payments to the United Nations and rejected contributing more money to the I.M.F. for financial crises. A1 

Iraq Expels 6 Americans
Iraq expelled six American members of an arms inspection team and put them on the road to Amman, Jordan. The United Nations responded by announcing that all inspectors would be withdrawn form the country immediately. A10
 
President Clinton denounced Iraq's action but stopped short of ordering a military retaliation. A1
 
Attacks Threatened in Pakistan
The Aimal Secret Committee, a previously unknown group, claimed responsibility for killing four American oil company workers and their driver in Karachi, Pakistan. The group threatened more attacks if Mir Aimal Kasi, a Pakistani convicted of killing two C.I.A. workers in Virginia in 1993, gets the death penalty. A3
 
Attrition Riddles Qatar Summit
Israel announced that Foreign Minister David Levy would not attend the Middle East economic conference in Doha, Qatar. The Israeli delegation is to be led instead by Natan Sharansky, the Industry and Trade Minister. Several Arab countries had signaled their protest of Israeli policies by deciding not to attend, leaving only Jordan, Kuwait, Oman and Yemen as confirmed participants in what was once supposed to be an important regional conference and diplomatic forum. A11
 
Informer Shielded Rabin's Killer
A Jewish militant who worked as an informer for Israel's Shin Bet security agency failed to report threats by Yigal Amir to kill Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, months before the assassination, according to secret findings of a state inquiry that has been made public. The informer had a history of eluding his handlers and pursuing his own violent campaign against Arabs and promoting far-right extremist groups. A9
 
Not a Bank Holiday in Indonesia
Fourteen thousand police officers and riot troops patrolled the streets of Jakarta as Indonesia's Government designated a day for hundreds of thousands of depositors to begin to retrieve a portion of their savings from the 16 troubled banks that were closed earlier in the week. The Government has allocated money for depositors to recover up to $5,700 from their accounts. A3
 
Afghanistan, Land of Onions?
Pino Arlacchi, the head of the United Nations drug control agency, announced a plan to root out opium poppies around the world within 10 years. He said he would try to convince peasants to grow legal crops, like onions, instead of the lucrative poppy, which provides the raw material for heroin. His first focus would be Afghanistan, whose militant Islamic leaders have promised to ban cultivation of the plant. A6
 
NATIONAL A14-33
 
AIDS Drugs Don't Kill Virus But Can Remain Effective
Powerful drug combinations being taken by many people infected with the AIDS virus do not eliminate it from the body, scientists have found. Neither does the virus develop resistance to the drugs in people who follow the strict dosage schedule, but the dormant infection means those using the combination therapy must continue it. A1
 
Congress Ends Mixed Session
As the 105th Congress ends its session it can boast of one bipartisan achievement: legislation to balance the budget and cut taxes. But the ill-will and stalemate of the session's closing weeks point to a return to sharp partisanship next year. A1
 
Instant Expulsions at Border
On-the-spot expulsions at United States borders are one result of a new law that gives immigration agents sweeping powers to exclude noncitizens summarily, powers that previously belonged only to judges. In the seven months since the law took effect, more than 23,000 people have been expelled this way with no access to legal help and, in most cases, were permitted no appeal. A1
 
New Warning on Diet Drugs
Americans who took either of two diet pills removed from the market in September should have medical checkups for evidence of possible heart damage, health officials said. They estimated that 1.2 million to 4.7 million people in this country have used the prescription drugs either singly or in a combination popularly known as "fen-phen." A26
 
Donation Was 'Hush' Money
The First Lady's former chief of staff, Margaret Williams, told House investigators that Johnny Chung, a discredited fund-raiser in President Clinton's re-election campaign, was such a relentless pest in seeking Administration access that his $50,000 campaign donation was finally accepted at the White House to "quiet him," and not to transact some improper quid pro quo. A32
 
Marines Get Army Apology
The Army's senior personnel official, Sara E. Lister, apologized to the Marine Corps after she described the Marines as "extremists" who were at risk of "total disconnection with society." The comments prompted calls on Capitol Hill for her resignation or dismissal. A30
 
Lawmaker Seeks Tobacco Data
Representative Thomas J. Bliley Jr., one of the tobacco industry's fiercest defenders in Congress, demanded that cigarette companies release hundreds of secret internal documents before lawmakers consider legislation to resolve regulatory issues involving tobacco. A21
 
Babbitt Inquiry Extended
Attorney General Janet Reno extended an investigation into whether to seek the appointment of an independent prosecutor to examine Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt's role in a decision to kill an Indian casino project in Wisconsin. A32
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Safety Board Inherits T.W.A. Crash Inquiry
With the FBI ruling out sabotage in the crash of T.W.A. Flight 800 off the coast of Long Island last year, the National Transportation Safety Board is now engaged in an engineer's worst nightmare: the search for a mysterious flaw that may be lurking in airplanes that are still flying. Even if the board is never able to say precisely what caused the Boeing 747's center fuel tank to explode, the engineers hope to identify additional changes in design or maintenance that could reduce the risk of similar disasters. A1
 
Guilty Plea in Insurance Case
A California man pleaded guilty in Manhattan to Federal charges that he defrauded nearly 1,600 investors of $95 million by promising them quick profits through buying the life insurance policies of terminally ill people. Such purchases, known as "viatical settlements," have become increasingly popular, especially for people with diseases like AIDS who can no longer work and have difficulty paying their medical bills. B3
 
Regents to Tighten Standards
The State Board of Regents will formally vote today to make it harder to earn a diploma in New York, requiring that the class of 2005 and beyond take three years each of mathematics and science and pass college-preparatory exams in five subjects. B2
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
WEEKEND E1-40; E41-54
 
EDITORIAL A34-35
 
Editorials: Disdain in the Senate; shortsighted Arab diplomacy; hey, look me over (for $5,000); conspiracies, real and imagined.
 
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Anthony Lewis.
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-17
 
Fed Calms Market Fears
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, offered soothing comments about the turmoil in global markets, saying the problems in Asia and elsewhere should not threaten prosperity in the United States or the soundness of the nation's financial system. Mr. Greenspan said the financial difficulties that had created such volatility in stock markets around the world could even benefit the United States by helping to suppress inflation. D1
 
Chase Posts October Loss
The Chase Manhattan Corporation, the nation's largest bank, said it had suffered a pretax trading loss of $160 million for October. D1

Honda Gets Plant in China
Honda announced that it had won the right to manufacture passenger cars at a plant in southern China, beating out a competing bid by General Motors. Honda executives said the venture would involve a $200 million investment with two local partners. D2
 
U.S. Stocks Finish Higher
Stocks ended higher, bolstered by calmer markets overseas. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 86.44, or 1.2 percent, to 7,487.76. D3
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES D19
 
Chronicle D20
 
Weather D18
 
Crossword E53

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JORDAN (93%); QATAR (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); INDONESIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); OMAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (52%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JORDAN (93%); QATAR (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); INDONESIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); OMAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (52%); AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (85%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AIDS & HIV (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (77%); ASSASSINATION (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); BANK FAILURES (69%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (69%); HOMICIDE (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (68%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (67%); RIOTS (67%); OPIUM (64%); HEROIN (64%); RELIGION (64%); FARM LABOR (63%); VIRUSES (60%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



351 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.S. Stocks Bounce Back As Foreign Markets Relax
Stocks recovered more than half of the previous day's losses, bolstered by calmer markets overseas and by expectations that slowdowns in Asia and Latin America would keep United States interest rates low. 
 The Dow industrials rose 86.44 points, to 7,487.76, after a drop of 157 points on Wednesday. Page D3.
 
Honda to Build Cars in China
Honda won the right to manufacture passenger cars at a plant in southern China, beating out a bid by General Motors. D2.
 
Mazda Motors' president is retiring. The executive, Henry D. G. Wallace, a Scotsman, became in 1996 the first foreigner to head a Japanese company. D6.

ITT Suitor's Shares Recover From Drop
The shares of Starwood Lodging bounced back from an early plunge after the company reassured investors that it would not issue too much stock to pay for its planned acquisitions of ITT and Westin. Market Place. D6.
 
Productivity Leap Eases Price Fear
The productivity of American workers grew in the third quarter at the fastest pace in five years, 4.5 percent, easing concerns that labor shortages could lead to inflation. D4.
 
$10 Million in Severance Pay
Columbia/HCA Healthcare said that it had agreed to pay its former chairman nearly $10 million when he was forced out of the company in the wake of an unfolding criminal investigation of it. D2.
 
New Focus In Milken Inquiry
The investigation of Michael R. Milken is focusing on allegations of obstruction of justice by the former junk bond king, according to a letter filed in court. D4.
 
Cost-Cutting Lifts Kmart Results
Kmart said that earnings doubled in the third quarter, bolstered by cost-cutting. The company also said it would offer voluntary retirement to 28,500 employees. Other retailers reported mixed results. D17.
 
Parent of Star Tribune in Deal
Cowles Media, the parent company of Minnesota's largest newspaper, will be sold for $1.4 billion to McClatchy Newspapers. The announcement ended months of speculation about a possible buyer. D5.
 
$1.4 Billion Offer for Utility Unit
Northeast Utilities received an unsolicited $1.4 billion cash offer from the nonprofit New Hampshire Electric Cooperative for its distribution service. D2.
 
No Vote on Possible Baldness Drug
A committee of scientific experts told the F.D.A. that finasteride, a drug made by Merck, can make bald men's hair grow back, but the panel declined to endorse it as safe. A26.
 
Business Apologies in South Africa
South African business executives, appearing before the Truth and Reconciliation Commission's hearings into the ways business supported apartheid or violated human rights, have been apologizing for their companies' actions during the era of white rule. A13.
 
More Women for Harvard Cases
The Harvard Business School plans to add more case studies that feature women in management, tacitly acknowledging that the studies do not reflect the workplace. A14.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,487.76 up 86.44
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.10% Unchanged
The Dollar -- 126.07 down 0.25
 
Photo: Michael R. Milken.
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
Producer Prices: October figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern. Expected: No change.
Retail Sales: October figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern. Expected: +0.3%
 
Starwood Lodging share price since last Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); HOT (NYSE) (56%); HCA (NYSE) (55%); NU (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (55%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (55%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (55%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (55%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (56%); HCA HOLDINGS INC (55%); NORTHEAST UTILITIES (52%); MCCLATCHY NEWSPAPERS INC (52%); NEW HAMPSHIRE ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); ASIA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); WOMEN WORKERS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (69%); SEVERANCE PAY (68%); LABOR SHORTAGES (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PRODUCTIVITY (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); HAIR LOSS (64%); RETAILERS (62%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



352 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Misguided Iran Sanctions

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Nov. 11 news analysis on American efforts to impose sanctions on foreign companies that trade with Iran highlights a foreign policy dilemma: isolating Iran at the cost of alienating allies. In a porous world, sanctions are ineffective. Saddam Hussein is still in power in Iraq, Libya is indifferent and North Korea, Vietnam and Cuba have all survived.
Where United States foreign policy has been successful, it was based on constructive engagement: apartheid in South Africa, Communism in Eastern Europe, Arab-Israeli peace. A policy based on exclusion and sanctions tends to radicalize rather than tame the target. 
 Secretary of State Dean Acheson's methods for containment of Communism pushed Mao Zedong to greater extremes, and Mr. Acheson's dealings with Gamal Abdel Nasser further radicalized the Egyptian leader. Likewise, imposing more sanctions on Iran will result in further radicalization.
 
NAJMEDIN MESHKATI
GUIVE MIRFENDERESKI
Los Angeles, Nov. 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); 

PERSON: MESHTAKI, NAJMEDIN; MIRFENDERESKI, GUIVE SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



353 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1640 words

HEADLINE: James Laughlin, Publisher With Bold Taste, Dies at 83

BYLINE: By MEL GUSSOW 

 BODY:
James Laughlin, the fiercely independent publisher, editor and poet, who, as the founder and longtime head of New Directions, published many of the most consequential and revolutionary writers of his time, died Wednesday on the way to Sharon Hospital from his home in Norfolk, Conn. He was 83.
The cause was complications following a stroke, said Griselda Ohannessian, the managing director of New Directions. 
 A man who combined bold taste with a gentle demeanor, Mr. Laughlin made a major contribution to literature as well as to the field of publishing. The list of his writers is staggering in its length and artistic complexity. He was Vladimir Nabokov's first American publisher and also printed the work of Tennessee Williams, William Carlos Williams, Ezra Pound, Henry Miller, Djuna Barnes, Dylan Thomas, Delmore Schwartz and John Hawkes, among many others.
There are large publishing houses and small presses -- and then there is New Directions, a one-man operation that grew to become one of the most influential book companies in the United States. "He was the greatest publisher America ever had," Brendan Gill, an author and critic, said yesterday. "Look at his backlist: there's nothing comparable."
As the poet Donald Hall said in an article in The New York Times in 1981, two things were paramount on Mr. Laughlin's list: "the assumption of quality and the assumption that these books would not sell in the marketplace."
He added that Mr. Laughlin started New Directions "in the service of verbal revolution," but he also reprinted Henry James, E. M. Forster, Ronald Firbank and Evelyn Waugh "when other publishers would not." Mr. Laughlin was, Mr. Hall said, a publisher "of the middle way," someone "who by low overhead, by infusions of capital from the responsible rich, by wit, or most likely by all three -- can choose with taste, publish with economy and keep a good book in print."
Mr. Laughlin published "The Crack Up" by F. Scott Fitzgerald; Beat poets including Lawrence Ferlinghetti and Gregory Corso; as well as authors in translation (Pablo Neruda, Garcia Lorca, Boris Pasternak, Jorge Luis Borges, Yukio Mishima), and on and on. He was indefatigable in his search for the new and adventurous. In a field often known for its timidity and for its concern for profits above all, Mr. Laughlin was a maverick. As he once said, "I don't have any business acumen. I'm not good at deals and can't cope with agents." What he could cope with were the personalities of some of the most difficult and temperamental authors.
With a characteristic boldness, he would take chances on anyone he considered an original. At the recommendation of Pound, he took on William Carlos Williams and Henry Miller. Williams brought him to Nathanael West and Miller encouraged him to reprint Herman Hesse's "Siddharta," which became one of New Directions's best sellers, along with Ferlinghetti's "Coney Island of the Mind." T. S. Eliot recommended Djuna Barnes.
Because of his willingness to listen to all suggestions and his close friendship with many of his authors, he thought of them as "an extended family," a family whose favored members included Pound and Nabokov. He studied with the former and he went butterfly hunting with the latter, although, for his own outdoor endeavors, he preferred to ski, swim and play golf.
For all of his editorial instinct, occasionally a book eluded him. He published Thomas Merton's poetry but delayed reading "The Seven Storey Mountain" until he returned from a skiing trip and found that Harcourt, Brace had accepted it. In 1954, Nabokov sent him a copy of the manuscript of "Lolita," and asked him if he would be interested in "publishing a time bomb." He liked the novel, but had hesitations about the subject matter. He suggested that the author send the novel to Olympia Press in Paris, which published it.
The support for these experimental authors derived from a family fortune in iron and steel. Mr. Laughlin was born in Pittsburgh. His great-grandfather, James Laughlin, had founded the family business, which became the Jones and Laughlin Steel Corporation. As a boy, James Laughlin 4th was taken by his father to visit the Laughlin mill. He compared it to the Inferno: "It was scary -- tremendous slabs of hot molten steel coming out of those giant furnaces, terrible noise, huge cranes carrying metal over your head all molten." And he made up his mind that he would never enter the business.
At the Choate School in Wallingford, Conn., he studied with the translator Dudley Fitts, and became editor of the school literary magazine. In 1933, before he entered Harvard University, he published a story in Atlantic Monthly. His aunt, Leila Laughlin Carlisle, was an important influence in his youth and he often visited her at her home in Norfolk, Conn. She encouraged his literary interests while trying to temper his enthusiasm for works of a more radical nature. She doubtless would not have approved of "Lolita."
As a student at Harvard, he majored in Latin and Italian. Because he was unhappy over the conservatism of teachers such as the poet Robert Hillyer, who would leave the room when Pound or Eliot was mentioned, he took a leave of absence in the middle of his sophomore year. He went to France, where he met Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas.
Then he wrote to Pound in Rapallo, Italy, and when the poet responded with the words, "Visibility high," he went to visit him. He stayed for six months, studying in Pound's personal "Ezuversity." In 1935, after reading Mr. Laughlin's poetry and crossing out most of the words, Pound said, "You're never going to be any good as a poet. Why don't you take up something useful?" He suggested that he become a publisher, which proved to be the most salutary advice for Mr. Laughlin as well as for the world of publishing.
Back at Harvard, and still an undergraduate, he started New Directions with money from his father. He published books out of a cottage at his aunt's home in Norfolk, Conn., and stored copies in his college room. New Directions eventually moved to New York; he continued to live in Norfolk.
His first book, published in 1936, was "New Directions in Prose & Poetry." It cost him $396 to print 700 copies, which he sold for sold for $2 each. Loading his Buick with copies, he became his own traveling salesman. The book was an anthology of experimental writing whose contributors included Elizabeth Bishop, Kay Boyle, E. E. Cummings, Henry Miller, Marianne Moore, Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound, Wallace Stevens, William Carlos Williams -- and Tasilo Ribischka. The last writer was identified as "an Austrian now living in Saugus, Mass., where he is a night watchman at a railroad grade crossing; this gives him lots of time to think." Ribischka was Mr. Laughlin's pseudonym.
Despite his reputation for thriftiness -- paying low salaries and delaying royalties when money was short -- he nurtured writers in various ways, economically as well as artistically. While publishing Delmore Schwartz, he hired him as an editor and later paid for his visits to his psychiatrist, without telling him. He would also lend money to writers.
In the 1940's, he began to publish a series called "Five Young American Poets" (the poets included Tennessee Williams, Randall Jarrell and Karl Shapiro). He also reprinted authors (Fitzgerald, Forster, Stein) in a New Classics series and published critical works under the title, "Makers of Modern Literature."
Despite Pound's discouragement, he continued writing poetry, and his reputation as a poet grew. Hayden Carruth praised Mr. Laughlin's work for "the layering voices of wit, irony and fantasy" and "the breadth of literary sources." In his own poetry, he paid homage to Greek and Latin models as well as to Pound and Williams. His book "New and Selected Poems" is scheduled to be published next year by New Directions.
His correspondence with his authors fills volumes: a series published by W. W. Norton that already includes Henry Miller, Pound, Schwartz, William Carlos Williams and Kenneth Rexroth. Typically, the letters are mostly "to" Mr. Laughlin rather than "from," with the publisher taking a more reserved position as listener and responder.
In the Schwartz-Laughlin collection, there is a letter from the publisher while visiting the family ski lodge in Alta, Utah. Taking time out to reflect on priorities, he wrote: "What is life for but to enjoy it, and certainly in the scales of happiness a fine day in the bright sun and snow on one of our mountains here is of more worth than publishing a book by a dyspeptic author." Then he added a note of cautionary advice: "Do not become a cheap writer. Keep up your standards. It is better to be read by 800 readers and be a good writer than be read by all the world and be Somerset Maugham."
He is survived by his wife, Gertrude Huston Laughlin of Norfolk; a daughter, Leila Savitch of Manhattan; two sons, Henry, of San Francisco and Paul, of Ann Arbor, Mich., and six grandchildren.
In 1992 he was awarded the National Book Foundation Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters. In an essay adapted from his acceptance speech, he wrote, "It took 23 years for New Directions to get into the black. But I've enjoyed a situation that every publisher must envy. No trips to the bank to beg for a loan. Little worry about the bottom line. If a good manuscript came along that I feared wouldn't sell much, we could do it."
Then with the honesty of an artist who knows the value of money, he added, "Of course, none of this would have possible without the industry of my ancestors, the canny Irishmen who immigrated in 1824 from County Down to Pittsburgh, where they built up what became the fourth largest steel company in the country. I bless them with every breath."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "You're never going to be any good as a poet," Ezra Pound, told James Laughlin in 1935. He suggested that he try publishing instead. (1965); James Laughlin. (1979)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BOOKS AND LITERATURE DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); PUBLISHING (94%); DEATHS (90%); WRITERS (90%); POETRY (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); LITERARY CRITICISM (73%); 

PERSON: LAUGHLIN, JAMES; GUSSOW, MEL JAMES LAUGHLIN IV (96%); VLADIMIR NABOKOV (57%); JOHN CLENDENNIN BURNE HAWKES JR (56%); BRENDAN GILL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



354 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: S.D. Paine, 65, Art Collector and Donor

 BODY:
Stephen D. Paine, an art collector and museum benefactor, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 65 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
The cause was respiratory failure due to post-polio syndrome, his wife, Susan Woods Paine, said. 
 Mr. Paine, an investment counselor who retired in 1995 as partner and senior vice president of the Wellington Management Company, was born in Cambridge on April 7, 1932, and raised in Brookline. He graduated from Deerfield Academy in 1950 and Williams College in 1954, with a degree in economics. In 1955, he contracted polio while serving in the United States Air Force and began to study art during his recuperation. He emerged from his illness confined to a wheelchair but with what was to be a lifelong passion for art.
He began by collecting the drawings of the Abstract Expressionists in the early 1960's and was soon a regular visitor to galleries in Boston and New York, known for his discerning eye and eclectic taste. The works that he and his wife gave to the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, where he was a trustee for more than 20 years, included paintings, sculptures and prints by such artists as Kandinsky, Robert Rauschenberg, Helen Frankenthaler, Jean Dubuffet and David Smith.
In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sisters, Priscilla P. Fuller of Minneapolis and Sarah P. O'Brien of Scottsdale, Ariz.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT CO LLP (57%); US AIR FORCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ART COLLECTING (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); PAINTING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); AIR FORCES (70%); 

PERSON: PAINE, STEPHEN D DAVID F SMITH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



355 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Tax Breaks Provided For Publisher's Move

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

 BODY:
City and state officials have agreed to provide at least $4.3 million in tax breaks to the Ziff-Davis Publishing Company to subsidize its move to new offices at 63 Madison Avenue, at 28th Street, from the company's longtime headquarters four blocks away at One Park Avenue.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that the tax breaks were tied to the creation of new jobs. Ziff-Davis, a computer magazine publisher that is owned by the Softbank Corporation of Japan, has promised to add 1,332 jobs, up from 738 now, over the next 22 years. 
 Ziff-Davis will receive $4.3 million in sales tax exemptions toward the purchase of new equipment. John Powers and Carol Nelson, real estate brokers at the Insignia/Edward S. Gordon Company, represented Ziff-Davis.
The city has also agreed to a limit on future increases in property taxes that Ziff-Davis will have to pay at 63 Madison. Mr. Powers said that the property-tax cap would save the company an extra $5 million over the 22-year period. But city officials said that property taxes would have to rise at a furious pace for Ziff-Davis to see such a saving.
Unlike some companies that have received tax incentives to stay in New York, Ziff-Davis never searched for a headquarters outside the city, Mr. Powers said. But he said that without the tax incentives, the company would have moved some operations to San Francisco or Boston. DAVID M. HALBFINGER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9984 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ZIFF-DAVIS PUBLISHING CO ZIFF-DAVIS PUBLISHING CO (94%); SOFTBANK CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZIFF-DAVIS PUBLISHING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS PUBLISHING (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); CITIES (79%); SALES TAX (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (73%); TAX INCREASES (73%); TRENDS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); HALBFINGER, DAVID M RUDY GIULIANI (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



356 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 14, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: CONGRESS DEPRIVES CLINTON OF MONEY FOR U.N. AND I.M.F.

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Congress voted today to defeat the carefully negotiated plan to make overdue payments to the United Nations and rejected contributing more money to the International Monetary Fund to help stave off foreign financial crises.
By a voice vote, the Senate approved a foreign operations spending bill of nearly $13 billion for 1998 -- without providing for United Nations and I.M.F. payments. The House had passed similar legislation 333 to 76 shortly after midnight. 
 The White House spokesman called the votes "boneheaded."
A spokesman for Secretary General Kofi Annan said the action "is going to make a difficult situation even more difficult" financially at the United Nations.
But the spokesman, Fred Eckhard, said the refusal to pay dues would probably not scuttle American attempts to build a unified front against Iraq because "on a big strategic issue like this, nations will act in their national interests."
The fight over money for the two international agencies became entwined in the domestic battle over abortion, and it dominated the final hours of the first session of the 105th Congress.
In the last few days, the Administration has mounted an extraordinarily strong lobbying effort to rescue the money for the international agencies. Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin spent several hours on Capitol Hill on Wednesday night meeting with the House Speaker, Newt Gingrich, and other Republican leaders. And Ms. Albright also talked one-on-one by telephone with the conservative legislators who backed the anti-abortion amendment to the spending bill.
Indeed, the Administration has spent a year trying to pave the way for the payments, and it appeared it had made significant gains when Senator Jesse A. Helms, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, was persuaded to support the plan. But it came undone because of the anti-abortion provision.
With this defeat, President Clinton lost two of his top foreign policy initiatives and -- despite Mr. Eckhard's denial -- could be hamstrung when it comes to dealing with two looming crises. The United States is seeking support at the Security Council for action against Iraq, and is working through the I.M.F. to contain the financial confusion in Asia.
"This is a particularly ill-timed move by Congress at a moment when we are attempting to work with the United Nations to build an international support for an appropriate response to provocations by Saddam Hussein," said Michael D. McCurry, the White House spokesman. "It is utterly boneheaded for Congress to fail to meet the commitments that the United States has at the U.N. in terms of our arrears."
Mr. Gingrich, who only days before had been allied with President Clinton in a failed attempt to win passage of a bill that would have given the President enhanced authority to negotiate trade agreements, found himself leading the attacks against the White House today. But Mr. Gingrich allowed the abortion issue to be tied up with the financing issue by conservative Republicans who want to extend the reach of the so-called Mexico City Policy, which bars use of Federal money for overseas abortion services or lobbying for such services.
Under the threat of a veto, Republican leaders on Wednesday removed the anti-abortion provision from the foreign operations spending bill and provided $385 million for international family-planning programs. But in a bow to conservatives who were behind the amendment, led by Representative Christopher H. Smith, a New Jersey Republican, Mr. Gingrich agreed to remove three issues dear to the White House and hold them hostage: reauthorization of the State Department, the United States' payment of nearly $1 billion in back dues to the United Nations and $3.5 billion to help the International Monetary Fund create the fund to bolster ailing economies.
If Mr. Clinton wants that money for the United Nations and the I.M.F. he will have to accept the anti-abortion provision next year. Democrats condemned this as a "political poison pill," putting the President in a position where he would have to oppose legislation he wants because of an issue he finds objectionable.
"Mr. Gingrich made a decision that if Chris Smith cannot win on Mexico City, then no one else should win on anything," said Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, the senior Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee. "It does not punish Bill Clinton," Mr. Obey added, "it punishes the country."
The Republicans also brought up the abortion issue when the President was trying to solicit votes to give him the expanded trade authority he worked to win.
International organizations like the United Nations and the I.M.F. are frequent political targets of conservative Republicans. But the current fight comes at an especially crucial time for the Administration.
The I.M.F. issue may be especially vexing.
As part of an effort involving 25 nations, including the United States, the fund is seeking to set up an emergency credit program called the New Agreements to Borrow. It would supplement existing I.M.F. funds and could be used to loan money to countries that find themselves in extraordinary financial straits, as Mexico was in 1995.
The Administration has led the drive, in part because it wants to avoid taking the lead in future bailouts, as it did in the case of Mexico. Instead, it is seeking to assure that the I.M.F. has sufficient funds to play that role.
As was the case in the last week's fight over the trade-authority bill, Mr. Gingrich was the political point man again today. "The problem only exists in the House and only with the House leadership," Mr. Obey complained.
Even some Senate Republicans were riled by the House Republicans.
"I'm really disturbed about that," Senator Ted Stevens, an Alaska Republican and the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, told reporters this afternoon. "It's very bad."
Mr. Stevens said he had tried and failed today to persuade House Republicans to send a "clean" bill to the President with the money for the United Nations and the International Monetary Fund. He said the only option left to him was to try to pass a supplemental appropriations bill in the spring that would provide the money.
In the last major vote of the year tonight, Congress approved the spending bill for the Departments of Commerce, Justice and State, including a compromise over a much-debated method of estimating the population in 2000.
The Census Bureau would be allowed to proceed next year with a test of the use of statistical sampling, as the Administration wanted. But in return, the Republicans won an agreement that the House Speaker would be allowed to legally challenge the use of sampling and that the Government would pay for the lawsuit.
The spending bill appropriates money for three of the largest Cabinet departments -- Commerce ($4.3 billion), Justice ($17.5 billion), and State ($5 billion) -- and for the Federal judiciary system ($3.2 billion). On the Commerce bill, the House voted 282 to 110, and the Senate approved it by a voice vote.
 
 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 1997, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about a refusal by Congress to appropriate funds for United Nations dues and the International Monetary Fund confused two I.M.F. loan programs in some copies. The new program is called the New Arrangements to Borrow. (The General Agreement to Borrow is an older program.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ; UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ABORTION LEGISLATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); ABORTION (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); APPROVALS (77%); LOBBYING (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MCCURRY, MICHAEL D BILL CLINTON (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1997



357 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Mexico and U.S. Take Steps on Arms, Drugs and Border Issues

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
President Clinton and the Mexican President, Ernesto Zedillo, said today that the United States and Mexico had made modest progress in resolving a number of the central problems in their complex diplomatic relationship.
But President Clinton acknowledged that United States trade relations with Mexico and other Latin American countries had been set back by his failure to persuade Congress to grant him enhanced trading authority under a measure known as fast track. 
 Mr. Zedillo told a business audience on Thursday that he had a "tremendous expectation and hope" that fast-track legislation would pass, helping to accelerate trade throughout the Americas. The legislation would permit Congress to adopt or reject trade agreements, but not to amend them.
Mr. Clinton did not concede defeat on the trade measure, however. "I think that this is not the last chapter in this story," he said in a photo session with Mr. Zedillo at the White House this morning. "I believe that you will see some more movement early next year."
The Administration believes it needs the new negotiating power to complete the hemispheric free-trade zone that President Clinton has pledged to build by 2005.
"I would urge our friends throughout Latin America not to overreact to the House vote," Mr. Clinton said. "This story is not over yet."
The two Presidents signed a multinational accord to fight trafficking in illegal weapons, announced that they would work more closely on drug interdiction, agreed upon new extradition rules for criminals and promised cooperation on economic development and environmental projects along the 2,000-mile United States-Mexico border.
The weapons accord was signed by 28 North and South American nations at the Organization of American States today. It marked the first time that a group of countries has agreed to work together to halt the black market in arms.
The agreement mandates that the countries that sign require that all firearms made within their borders carry indelible markings indicating the serial number and name and place of manufacture. The accord also requires countries to maintain an effective licensing system for all weapons imports and exports.
Officials said today that the agreement does not require the United States to impose any new rules on gun manufacturers or importers, but it does commit the Administration to vigorous enforcement of existing laws.
The Governments also concluded a protocol to their extradition treaty this week that will permit temporary extradition to allow cross-border criminals to be tried in both countries while evidence is fresh.
Drug traffic through Mexico to the United States remains a substantial irritant in the relationship, United States officials said. Barry McCaffrey, a retired Army general who heads the White House drug control office, said that as much as 50 percent of the cocaine consumed in the United States flows through Mexico and that Mexico should do more to end its role as a shipment point on the route for South American cocaine.
But Mexican officials have responded that the problem is the demand for drugs, not the supply. The two countries today completed plans for a conference to be held in March in El Paso to discuss ways to improve interdiction of drugs and reduce demand on both sides of the border.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); EXTRADITION (87%); FIREARMS (86%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (86%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (71%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (70%); DRUG POLICY (69%); ARMIES (68%); SMALL ARMS MFG (67%); DRUG INTERDICTION (65%); COCAINE (65%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



358 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Think Tank;
New Vision of Eden as a Scientific Garden

BYLINE: By Paul Lewis 

 BODY:
Ever since Plato wrote the "Republic," idealists have been setting out their visions of the perfect society. Thomas More, who wrote "Utopia" in 1516, wanted to restore the traditional village and fend off the emerging market system that allowed "rich men to buy up all." The Frenchman Charles Fourier believed man could rationally determine the most harmonious social unit: by his calculations, 1,620 people on 5,000 acres. In the 1780's, the religious, communal Shakers began establishing villages with celibacy as the cardinal principle; seven decades later, John Humphrey Noyes founded the religious and socialist Oneida community, where every woman was the wife of every man and vice versa.
The latest entrant to the utopian ranks seems to be Freeman J. Dyson, the 73-year-old mathematician and former physicist, who is now a futurologist at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J. Like the scientific utopians at this century's start, Mr. Dyson says technology provides the bridge to a heaven on earth. 
 He conjures up a world where trees, not oil wells, produce fuel, where rural villages are the major source of wealth, and former slum dwellers are hooked up to the Internet.
In his vision, new technologies pointed in the right direction could create such a poverty-free utopia, leapfrogging the dishearteningly slow efforts of the World Bank and other do-gooders to promote development.
Mr. Dyson laid out his theory in a lecture in Manhattan last week sponsored by the Carnegie Council on Ethics and International Affairs. His starting point was the way rural villages in Britain, Germany and France are abandoning agriculture to become residential centers for the middle class and sites for business and light industry.
These villages became sources of wealth, he argued, because "they have what wealthy people seek, peace and security and beauty." He then asked himself the obvious question, "How can a God-forsaken Mexican village become a source of wealth?"
His answer: "The sun, the genome and the Internet can work together to bring wealth to the villages of Mexico just as the older technology of electricity and automobiles brought wealth to the villages of England."
"Technology guided by ethics has the power to help billions of poor people all over the earth," he explained. "The thousand megawatts of solar power falling daily on every tropical square mile is enough to support "a dense population with all modern conveniences."
Of course, photoelectric conversion is expensive, but in time, geneticists could develop mutated trees "that convert sunlight to liquid fuel and deliver the fuel directly through their roots to a network of pipes," Mr. Dyson said. Then "economic forces will move industries from cities to the country."
Finally, all these new rural production centers could be linked via the Internet, allowing "people in remote places to make business deals, to buy and sell, to keep in touch with friends, to continue their education."
The obstacle, he said, is not that science cannot achieve this, but that technological research is heading in the wrong direction, concentrating on "making toys for the rich."
Genetic researchers, for example, seek mainly to advance human "high-tech medicine," which primarily benefits the rich, while manufacturers prefer to upgrade products, keeping them "out of reach of the poor."
Mr. Dyson said ethical values as well as the desire for profit can drive technological research just as technology sometimes influences human values. Thus the Protestant work ethic, which emphasized personal responsibility, fathered capitalism and the Industrial Revolution. But what made the spread of Protestantism possible in the first place was the invention of printing, because it popularized the Bible.
What research into this holy trinity of solar energy, genetics and computers now needs, Mr. Dyson said, is "a strong ethical push" to get all three technologies working in tandem to create "a socially just world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A picture from a past utopia: Shakers during religious exercises in a meeting house. (Culver Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); FRANCE (53%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE COUNCIL ON ETHICS AND INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS AND INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHERS NV (59%); CARNEGIE COUNCIL ON ETHICS & INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (59%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (56%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CARNEGIE COUNCIL ON ETHICS AND INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS CARNEGIE COUNCIL ON ETHICS & INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (59%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (56%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); FRANCE (53%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES ETHICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); RELIGION (75%); SLUM DWELLINGS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); SOLAR ENERGY (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (63%); 

PERSON: DYSON, FREEMAN J

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



359 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Foreign-Policy Vandalism

 BODY:
In an extreme example of legislative irresponsibility, the House of Representatives on Thursday abruptly killed the carefully negotiated compromise on the United States' delinquent dues to the United Nations. It also deleted an urgently needed spending provision for the International Monetary Fund, which is trying to contain a dangerous Asian financial crisis.
The House Republican majority did not particularly object to the I.M.F. spending or the U.N. provision, which the White House had worked out with Senator Jesse Helms. The G.O.P.'s purpose was to hold these essential items hostage until the next session so as to coerce President Clinton into supporting an anti-abortion measure. The measure would deny Federal money to any overseas family planning agency that performs abortions or lobbies to change abortion laws. 
 Earlier this week, Mr. Clinton accepted a painful defeat over "fast track" trade authority because he refused to accept the anti-abortion language. Then House members tried to hold the entire $13 billion foreign operations spending bill hostage to their cause. Finally, they resorted to assaulting the I.M.F. and weakening the United Nations in the midst of the Iraq crisis. The White House went only slightly overboard in characterizing their logic as "boneheaded."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ABORTION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); VANDALISM (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); FAMILY PLANNING (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



360 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Of Consumers Remains High

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
Despite recent stock market gyrations, the nation's consumers have actually grown more confident about current economic conditions, the Survey Research Center at the University of Michigan told clients today.
Whether consumers would grow more cautious as the value of their securities portfolios shrank has been a matter of debate. But it appears that as a group they view the situation much as does Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve. In late October, Mr. Greenspan called the stock market decline in the United States a "salutary event" that might help keep the buoyant economy from overheating by curbing consumer spending. 
 Government figures released today supported the notion that the economy was not growing so rapidly as to lead to inflation. Retail spending fell, while the prices that producers receive for their goods rose only slightly.
Most startling, the confidence of consumers in current conditions climbed to a new high for this economic expansion, which began in the spring of 1991.
"Although the largest number of consumers since the 1987 crash reported hearing of the decline in stock prices, nearly as many reported hearing of rebounding stock prices," the Michigan polling group said in its preliminary report for November. "Consumer confidence has remained remarkably strong."
The rise in the overall confidence index was to 106.1 from 105.6, according to a subscriber, with a major component, the appraisal of current conditions, surging to 115.5 from 109.8.
This upbeat assessment comes at the beginning of the holiday shopping season and after two months of declining retail sales. Retail sales edged down two-tenths of 1 percent, to $213.7 billion, in October, the Commerce Department estimated today. That report for October was accompanied by a revision in September sales figures to a decline of one-tenth of 1 percent from what had been an increase of three-tenths of 1 percent.
Though consumers appear to have pulled back from their blistering summer spending pace, economists said they still had considerable buying power and the will to use it.
The latest sales figures had "quite a weak tone," said analysts at Macroeconomic Advisers in St. Louis, but a slide at automotive showrooms depressed the total. Otherwise, retail spending posted a gain of four-tenths of 1 percent.
"We've got momentum" across a broad front, said Brian M. Jones, an economist at Salomon Brothers.
The price report, reflecting what the nation's producers obtain for their goods, showed a third consecutive increase following seven months of declines.
Still, analysts said the slight upward drift was not enough to concern the Federal Reserve. They noted that the rise was minimal, at one-tenth of 1 percent, and that without the wide-swinging food and energy components, there was no producer inflation at all last month. The price of raw materials registered a jump of 4 percent, mostly because of a surge in the price of natural gas.
"Prices just keep coming in with hardly any sign of inflationary pressures," said Howard Keen, chief economist at Conrail Inc.
Sales of durable goods, mainly motor vehicles, fell nine-tenths of 1 percent last month, to act as the main drag on retail sales. Automotive dealers reported a 2 percent decline in receipts, while merchants selling building materials, hardware, garden supplies and mobile homes saw a decline of one-tenth of 1 percent. Sales of furniture and other items for the home were unchanged.
Last month's total sales were 3.4 percent greater than those of October 1996, before any adjustment for inflation.

GRAPHIC: Charts: "Producer Prices"
Index of finished goodes prices, 1982=100. Seasonally adjusted. Chart shows index of finished goodes prices from March 1996 through October 1997. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
 
"Retail Sales"
Total retail sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Chart shows total retail sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted from March 1996 through October 1997. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (64%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); LANSING, MI, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



361 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: French Speakers Meet Where Few Will Hear

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, Nov. 14

 BODY:
Under siege in Africa, intimidated on the Internet, fighting for its life in Indochina, the embattled French language is rallying its defenders this week in Vietnam, a former colony of France where less than 1 percent of the 75 million Vietnamese still speak French.
"Everybody wants to learn English to get a job," said Duong Bay, who got his at the Foreign Ministry by pursuing English studies at the university here. 
 Even Nguyen Lan, a 90-year-old professor who compiled the leading Vietnamese-French dictionary, has calling cards in Vietnamese and English, not French. His secretary had them done that way without asking, he said.
Most people here in northern Vietnam stopped using the French language when Ho Chi Minh defeated the French Army in 1954. In the south, French stopped being the language of choice for younger members of the elite during the American military buildup of the 1960's.
Nevertheless, from today until Sunday, President Jacques Chirac and leaders of more than 30 other countries, including some with only a passing acquaintance with French, are meeting here to fight for the francophone way in a world depressingly (to some of them) anglophone.
All this constitutes a historical oddity that might baffle Ho Chi Minh, himself a French-educated Vietnamese Communist leader who sacrificed millions of his compatriots' lives for independence from French tutelage and, later, American influence. For his country is joining its former colonial master in an effort to try to use the French language as a way to build a bloc of countries determined to stand up to the global assault of Anglo-American cultural, economic and political influences.
"The English that is spreading around the world is Anglo-American, not the pure English of Shakespeare," said Margie Sudre, a French legislator, born in Vietnam, who held the job of Secretary of State for Francophone Affairs in the French Foreign Ministry when the conservatives were in power.
"We don't want the French language to lose its richness and purity," she said.
On Sunday, despite some grumbling from African countries spearheaded by Burkina Faso that wanted a black African to head the organization, the Franco-summiteers are expected to elect Boutros Boutros-Ghali of Egypt, the former United Nations Secretary General, as their own Secretary General, a permanent spokesman to the rest of the globe for the next four years.
"I see it as a regional grouping," Mr. Boutros-Ghali said of the French-speaking movement in a recent interview with Le Figaro magazine. "It should become a way of defending cultural diversity. If everybody wears the same clothes, speaks the same language, has the same customs, we risk having a global fascist-type regime."
There's nothing phony, the defenders of French say, about holding a "Francophonie" summit meeting in a place where French is hardly spoken.
"Even though the percentage of Vietnamese who speak the language fluently is not very great, quality is more important than quantity," said Pham Khac Lam, a fluent French speaker who heads a committee dealing with the millions of Vietnamese who live abroad.
To the Vietnamese, holding their first international summit meeting shows that they have arrived, and to the French, the conference is a kind of beau geste well worth France's 70 percent share of the $17 million cost.
For if English is the global medium of commerce and communication par excellence, French is the message itself to francophones.
The "Conference of Chiefs of State and Government of Countries Having French in Common," to give this session its formal name, includes representatives of 46 member countries and two associate members, Portuguese-speaking Sao Tome and Principe and Romanian-speaking Moldova.
Some members, like France, Ivory Coast, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Haiti, actually use French as their official language, even if in some of them the mass of people speak something else.
In others, like Canada and Belgium, it is one of two or more official languages, and in about 20, like Romania, Bulgaria and Egypt, it is widely studied or, as in Vietnam, used to be popular but went out of vogue with independence.
The Canadian provinces of Quebec and New Brunswick have full membership, and New England, where more people now study Spanish in school than French, has observer status, as does Louisiana.
If these countries and regions constitute the French-speaking world, it is potentially powerful, since it accounts for 10 percent of the world's gross national product and 9 percent of its population. But in all the world there are, by official French count, only 105 million "genuine" francophones -- people who use French every day.
That is not even half as many English speakers as there are in the United States, not to mention Britain, India and the rest of the world. It is fewer people than live in Brazil, where Portuguese is spoken.
Another 55 million people in former French colonies in Asia, Africa, America and the Caribbean use French occasionally, and an additional 100 million people scattered around the world have studied it.
What the French-speaking lands have in common is a sense of mission to resist the anglicization of the globe. Meetings like the current one are expected somehow to help them acquire at least some of the cultural and business clout that English-speakers get, in the French view, as a free ride.
"As soon as you get two or three business leaders together, you start speaking English," said Jean Gandois, who until last month was president of the main employers' organization in France.
That is one reason that France spends close to $1 billion a year in aid, education grants, language training programs and credits to spread French civilization around the world, including $88 million for the Francophone Agency, a coordinating organization in Paris that will form the basis of Mr. Boutros-Ghali's new secretariat.
France also spends more than $100 million a year on 1,056 Alliance Francaise centers that teach French in 134 countries and goes to extraordinary lengths to protect French language and culture at home.
Laws require popular music radio stations in France to make sure that 40 percent of the songs they broadcast are French and television stations to show French programs, but to little avail.
Francois Bayrou, an opposition leader, complained in the French Parliament the other day that one consequence of the insidious Anglo-Saxon influence was that criminals in French courts had begun referring to judges as "Votre Honneur," L.A. Law-style, instead of the traditional "Monsieur le Juge."
The defensiveness goes so far that when rebels overthrew the military dictator Mobutu Sese Seko in Zaire, now the Congo, earlier this year, some French commentators speculated that the American military advice they say the rebels benefited from was aimed at subverting the biggest French-speaking country in Africa to the Anglo-American orbit. The country's new Government boycotted the conference today, saying it was protesting France's longtime support for Mr. Mobutu.
Last year Mr. Chirac vetoed former Foreign Minister Uffe Ellemann-Jensen of Denmark as Secretary General of the NATO alliance, solely because he thought the Dane's French was not good enough to preserve French as one of NATO's official languages.
Mr. Chirac, who on Wednesday started the second visit to Vietnam since 1954 by a French head of state, also tried unsuccessfully to keep the United States from forcing Mr. Boutros-Ghali out of his job at the United Nations, where he had vigorously defended French as an official language. Kofi Annan of Ghana, who took over the post in January, had to demonstrate command of French before Paris gave its approval.
French and other diplomats now hope that Mr. Boutros-Ghali will be able to use diplomacy to keep inter-African conflicts from flaring up again and to manage them if they do erupt, averting the danger of meddling from any English speakers with designs on the area.
Against such high hopes, there is a certain reality to be faced, and it is evident here. Hanoi, swarming with motorcycles, seems as on the make and culturally overwhelmed as Saigon did in the 1960's, at the height of the American war. Now Vietnam is unified as a Communist country trying to practice capitalism, and France is only a distant memory. And Mr. Bay estimates that for every student studying French in Vietnam, there are at least 30 learning English.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Le Van Khoi, 85, owner of a traditional-medicine shop in Hanoi, is one of the few Vietnamese who can speak French, 43 years after his country won independence. Leaders of French-speaking countries are meeting in Hanoi to discuss ways to resist what they see as the anglicization of the globe. (Reuters)
 
Map/Chart: "OVERVIEW: The World of French"
More than 60 countries and territories are in the francophone world, but that does not mean that most of the people speak the language in most of those countries. Au contraire. (A notable exception is Vietnam. Another is Haiti, where French is the official language but only a tiny percentage - the elite - use it in preference to Creole.)
 
 
Percentage of French-speaking people per region:
 
Over 80%
 
France
French Guiana
French Polynesia
Guadeloupe
Isle of Mayotte
Martinique
Monaco
New Caledonia
Quebec
Reunion I.
St. Pierre and Miquelon
* Val D'Aoste (Italy)
 
30 - 80%
 
Algeria
Belgium
Congo Rep.
Equatorial Guinea
New Brunswick
Gabon
Mauritius
Tunisia
Vanuatu
 
10 - 30%
 
Benin
Cameroon
Central African Republic
Guinea
Ivory Coast
Lebanon
Madagascar
Morocco
Senegal
Seychelles
Switzerland
Togo
Western Sahara
 
5 - 10%
 
Burkina Faso
Chad
Comoros
Congo
Guinea-Bissau
Mali
Mauritania
Niger
Ontario
 
1 - 5 %
 
Dominica
Egypt
Israel
* Louisiana
Moldova
* New England
Pondicherry
Sao Tome and Principe
St. Lucia
Syria
Western and Central Canada
 
* indicates regions with observer status at the conference
(Source: Haut Conseil de la Francophonie)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (93%); AFRICA (93%); EGYPT (92%); BURKINA FASO (92%); CANADA (79%); MOROCCO (79%); FRENCH POLYNESIA (79%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); TOGO (79%); EQUATORIAL GUINEA (79%); FRENCH GUIANA (79%); SAINT PIERRE & MIQUELON (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SEYCHELLES (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); MAURITIUS (79%); GUADELOUPE (79%); ALGERIA (79%); WESTERN SAHARA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); SENEGAL (79%); HAITI (79%); NIGER (79%); GUINEA-BISSAU (79%); VANUATU (79%); MARTINIQUE (79%); MALI (79%); CAMEROON (79%); MONACO (79%); GABON (79%); SAO TOME & PRINCIPE (79%); COMOROS (79%); GUINEA (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); MAYOTTE (79%); MADAGASCAR (79%); BELGIUM (59%); INDIA (56%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (59%); ONTARIO, CANADA (59%); PONDICHERRY, INDIA (56%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (51%); SAO TOME, SAO TOME & PRINCIPE (51%); PONDICHERRY, INDIA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (93%); AFRICA (93%); EGYPT (92%); BURKINA FASO (92%); CANADA (79%); MOROCCO (79%); FRENCH POLYNESIA (79%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); TOGO (79%); EQUATORIAL GUINEA (79%); FRENCH GUIANA (79%); SAINT PIERRE & MIQUELON (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SEYCHELLES (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); MAURITIUS (79%); GUADELOUPE (79%); ALGERIA (79%); WESTERN SAHARA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); SENEGAL (79%); HAITI (79%); NIGER (79%); GUINEA-BISSAU (79%); VANUATU (79%); MARTINIQUE (79%); MALI (79%); CAMEROON (79%); MONACO (79%); GABON (79%); SAO TOME & PRINCIPE (79%); COMOROS (79%); GUINEA (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); MAYOTTE (79%); MADAGASCAR (79%); BELGIUM (59%); INDIA (56%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (59%); ONTARIO, CANADA (59%); PONDICHERRY, INDIA (56%); HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (51%); SAO TOME, SAO TOME & PRINCIPE (51%); PONDICHERRY, INDIA (51%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); CONSERVATISM (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



362 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Chief Attacks Congress Over Back Dues

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 14

 BODY:
In an unusually sharp criticism of Congress and the anti-abortion lobby that on Thursday killed a plan to pay the United Nations more than $1 billion in back dues, Secretary General Kofi Annan today called the vote "unreasonable and regrettable."
He also noted that the action, which officials say will push the organization into its most serious financial crisis in coming months, came in the same week that Washington was using the Security Council to garner support for American policy on Iraq. 
 Diplomats from France, Britain, Japan and other allies of the United States expressed shock and dismay at the rebuff from Washington, especially at such a delicate moment.
"This can't be good for the position of the U.S. in this organization," said a European diplomat here who did not want to be identified by name or country. "We had been promised time and time again that if certain conditions were met, the bills would be paid. The conditions were met, and we are not being paid a penny."
At a news conference, Mr. Annan said that while he did not feel personally betrayed by Washington, "if there is a betrayal, it is a betrayal of the international community and the United Nations system."
"It is both unreasonable and regrettable that the legislation was held hostage to the entirely unrelated domestic policies of abortion," Mr. Annan said. "I am disappointed and concerned."
Today the European Union also "deplored" the vote in Congress, said Jean-Louis Wolzfeld, Luxembourg's representative at the United Nations and current chairman of the Union nations here. In a statement today, the Europeans said the United States was endangering reforms of the organization while contributing to its deepening financial crisis.
"We noted also that Europe pays all its dues promptly and without conditions," Mr. Wolzfeld said.
On Thursday, both houses of Congress voted against a plan negotiated with the Clinton Administration that would have authorized overdue payments to the United Nations and additional money to the International Monetary Fund.
"We're supposed to be the leader of the world, and we shouldn't be doing things like this," said David E. Birenbaum, who is chairman of the Emergency Coalition for U.S. Financial Support of the United Nations, a lobbying group that includes all former American Secretaries of State on its board.
Mr. Birenbaum, who was the American representative on budgetary matters at the United Nations mission of the United States until last year, said the Congressional action revealed more about rivalries among Republicans and legislative self-indulgence than it did about the American public's attitude toward the United Nations. "Americans don't want us to be deadbeats," he said in an interview today.
The United States is the United Nations' largest debtor, responsible for about 60 percent of all unpaid debts. Congress has demanded that American payments be reduced before all debts are settled, an issue that is now being discussed by other member nations.
Mr. Annan said today that the action on Thursday was not going to help these negotiations, or talks on other demands by members of Congress whose aim is to reduce the size and activities of the United Nations.
The Secretary General said he would call an emergency session of a General Assembly panel on finance to look for ways out of a looming crisis. The United Nations had intended to apply the money the Clinton Administration had assured it was coming to repay money borrowed from the organization's peacekeeping fund -- money owed to countries that contribute troops to peacekeeping missions.
"The crisis will come quickly and deeply," Joseph E. Connor, Under Secretary General for Administration and Management, said today, He said he conveyed that message last week to Senator Rod Grams, Republican of Minnesota, who has been a critic of the United Nations.
The United Nations is not permitted to borrow money commercially. It depends entirely on contributions or assessments from its 185 member nations. These assessments are calculated on a country's proportion of the world economy.
United Nations officials, angered by Congressional accusations that the United Nations is bloated and unwilling to cut back its staff or programs, say the organization's budget has been kept at a no-growth level since 1994 -- during which time the United States budget has increased 16 percent. While the United States Government has cut back its staffing by 12 percent, the United Nations has cut its staff 24 percent.
Mr. Annan said the Congressional vote had come, ironically, "on the day after the General Assembly endorsed a major complement of my proposals for institutional reforms."
Some Congressional voices were raised in support of the United Nations today. Representative Eliot L. Engel, a New York Democrat who is co-chairman of the House United Nations Working Group, drew a direct link to the Iraqi crisis.
"Just as we are readying the nation for military action," he said, "Congress is taking a disastrous step to undercut our ability to build a coalition of nations at the U.N."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); LUXEMBOURG (72%); 

COMPANY: US FINANCIAL 15 SPLIT CORP (56%); U S FINANCIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (56%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); LUXEMBOURG (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ABORTION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



363 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: Agencies Told by Mayor to Prepare for Budget Cuts

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
The Giuliani administration is warning city agencies that though the local economy is rebounding and tax revenues are greater than expected, they must prepare for the possibility of new spending cuts next summer to help close large budget gaps projected for the years ahead.
The administration's Office of Management and Budget sent a memo to the heads of the agencies on Thursday, calling on them to find areas where they could reduce spending. The memo was part of the administration's preparations for the 1999 fiscal year, which begins next July 1. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is to present his preliminary 1999 budget in January. 
 "We must deal with these budget gaps firmly and prudently," said the memo, which was signed by Joseph J. Lhota, the director of the city's Office of Management and Budget.
Randy M. Mastro, the Deputy Mayor for operations, said yesterday that the administration had sent this type of memo to city agencies every November since Mr. Giuliani became Mayor. Mr. Mastro referred to the process as an exercise that seeks to insure that agency officials are focused on containing spending.
"This approach has served us well over the last four years," Mr. Mastro said. "We intend to continue to hold the line on overall city spending and achieve economies of scale and savings wherever we can."
The Office of Management and Budget asked some agencies to consider cutting as much as 11 percent of the parts of their budgets that are financed by city tax revenues. It said the agencies should achieve any reductions in the number of workers through attrition or redeployment.
Although the goals for cuts are high, it is unlikely that they will be enacted, officials emphasized. The administration usually sets high targets for cuts and then carries out only a portion of them.
What is more, if the local economy continues to grow and Wall Street's profits do not sag, the city will end its 1998 fiscal year on June 30 with a large surplus. The administration could then roll the surplus into the 1999 fiscal year, helping to close a projected budget gap of $1.8 billion. The projected gaps for the two years after that are more than $2 billion annually.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET (NYC) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (93%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET (NYC) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (93%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (96%); CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



364 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Bonds and Currency Take Turns On Seesaw as Stock Markets Rally

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
A resurgence in global stock markets yesterday helped erase the remnants of Wall Street's midweek tumble, but the rebound was partly overshadowed by other volatility that hurt the dollar, buffeted bonds and sent gold prices down to 12 1/2-year lows.
The day of wild swings in the credit and currency markets resulted from rumors that Japan's Government and big financial institutions, which collectively own enormous amounts of United States Treasury bonds, will be forced to sell some to finance an economic revival plan and stabilize a wobbly banking system. 
 The frailty of Japan's economy was reflected in its stock market yesterday, which was conspicuously weak, falling 2.2 percent. The plunge in gold, which has been eroding in value for much of the year, reflected widespread fear that central banks were shedding some of their reserves before the metal declined even further. On Wednesday, Germany's Bundesbank, the second-largest holder of gold behind the United States, said it had lent some gold to traders. Last month, Switzerland said it planned to sell a substantial portion of its reserves.
Most stock investors, by contrast, enjoyed a day of resilience and price gains notably absent for many of the trading days since Oct. 27, when economic problems in Southeast Asia touched off a global rout that has been reverberating through financial markets ever since. Markets in Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand and most other Southeast Asian countries stabilized or strengthened yesterday, as did markets in Europe and Latin America.
Wall Street analysts said that investors were finally beginning to conclude that the selloff in the United States, although much less severe than the one in Asia, was a little bit overdone. The favorable reaction helped push the Dow Jones industrial average up 84.72 points, or 1.13 percent, to 7,572.48, its second straight gain of more than 80 points. The advances more than erased the 157-point slide in the Dow on Wednesday and left the widely followed index down only 8.84 points for the week.
Broader indexes also gained. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 11.69 points, or 1.28 percent, to 928.35, and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 25.77, or 1.65 percent, to 1,583.51, led by technology stocks, a key factor in overall stock advances yesterday.
Despite continuing fears about a global economic slowdown, Byron R. Wien, the chief equity strategist at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company, said he expected share prices to continue to rise.
Mr. Wien, who for some time had considered prices excessively high, said that because of the recent setbacks, the market was no longer overvalued.
Stocks also were helped by favorable economic news that showed declines in consumer spending and benign inflation, suggesting that the economy is not expanding so quickly that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates.
At the same time, a widely followed consumer-sentiment survey conducted by the University of Michigan showed Americans were increasingly upbeat about the economy, suggesting that the stock market's gyrations are not causing them great concern.
"Everything pointed to a reasonably strong market today, and we got what we were expecting," said Philip J. Orlando, chief investment officer at Value Line Asset Management. "The overseas markets were healthy, and the economics here were healthy."
The stamina of the United States economy, particularly compared with that of Japan, also helped the dollar advance in early foreign-exchange trading to a six-month high of 127.25 yen. But late in the day, the dollar tumbled and settled at 125.62 yen, largely on the rumors of impending Japanese sales of Treasury securities.
Currency traders said the rumors were credible because of a string of evidence of a weakening Japanese economic and financial system.
On Thursday, for example, the IBCA ratings agency in London downgraded the credit ratings of three of Japan's biggest banks and said it might do the same to three other Japanese banks. Earlier in the week, reports arose that Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin had written an extraordinary letter to his counterpart in Japan expressing deep concern about Japanese economic problems.
Treasury securities initially rallied on the reports showing slow growth, scant inflation and optimistic consumer sentiment, briefly pushing the yield on the 30-year bond, a barometer of interest-rate trends, to a 21-month low of 6.087 percent.
But the rumors of Japanese selling quickly erased those gains as other buyers turned into sellers, which depressed prices and pushed yields back up. That left the 30-year yield unchanged for the day at 6.10 percent.
Despite the volatility in the bond market yesterday, analysts said the underlying fundamentals point to further strength.
Thomas E. Donne, vice president and senior portfolio manager at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation in Columbus, Ohio, said the economy's strength and moribund inflation were potent reasons why the bond market could surge.
"There is little in the way of convincing hard evidence from the economy that says the Fed has to tighten," he said. Moreover, further skittishness in stocks could contribute to an investor migration to Treasuries.
The tumble in gold briefly pushed prices below $300 an ounce before it recovered slightly, but the metal still settled at its lowest level since March 1985. On the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, gold for December delivery fell $4.50 an ounce, or 1.5 percent, to $304.30. It was the biggest one-day drop since Switzerland announced on Oct. 31 that it planned to sell some gold.
 
ON THE WEB
The latest stock and mutual fund quotations, along with news updates, are available on the Internet from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (pg. D2)
 
Charts: "Stocks" S.&P. index of 500 stocks, daily closes.
"Interest Rates" Yield on 30-Year Treasuries, daily closes.
"Gold" Near-month future price per oz., daily closes.
Charts tracks daily closes from November 3rd through the 14th. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (77%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; INTEREST RATES; FINANCES; GOLD; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING (69%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (69%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



365 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

For Store Workers, Christmas Comes Early
From $100 signing bonuses to discounts on choice merchandise, workers hired by merchants for this year's holiday selling season are benefiting from acute labor shortages. The lowest unemployment level in a quarter century has forced retailers to offer extraordinary lures to attract part-time help.
 But the shortage of help could be trouble for shoppers, who may find that the customer-service and cashier lines in malls and stores in coming weeks are more aggravating than in previous seasons. Page A1.
 
Siemens Buying Westinghouse Unit
Westinghouse Electric sold its power-generation business to Siemens of Germany for $1.525 billion. In doing so, Westinghouse confirmed that it would sell its remaining industrial businesses instead of spinning them off into a separate company. Westinghouse will become a media company, and on Dec. 1, will change its name to CBS. D2. 

McClatchy Shares Tumble
Shares of McClatchy Newspapers lost 19.8 percent following the news that it would buy the Cowles Media Company, publisher of The Star Tribune of Minneapolis, for $1.4 billion, including $90 million of assumed debt. McClatchy plans to keep The Star Tribune and sell Cowles's other businesses. McClatchy shares fell $4.625, to $28. D3.
 
VW May Purchase Rolls-Royce
Volkswagen expressed interest in buying Rolls-Royce Motor Cars, setting up a possible bidding contest with German rival BMW for the luxury British auto maker. D3.
 
Waste Hauler Takes a Charge
Waste Management Inc. took a charge against earnings of $173 million before earnings and restated its accounts for the last two years. The action comes a month after its chief executive resigned abruptly after only three months on the job. D2.
 
Japanese Stimulus Plan
Stocks in Japan fell sharply after the ruling Liberal Democrats outlined a second plan to stimulate the economy. The plan disappointed investors because it did not mention income tax cuts or public works spending. D3.
 
Narrower Loss Recorded by TCI
Tele-Communications Inc.'s third-quarter loss was narrower than expected due to cost reductions and a renewed focus on the company's cable business. TCI stock rose 3.5 percent on the news to $24. The stock has risen 85 percent since a year ago. D3.
 
Top Court to Review Sex Bias Issue
The Supreme Court has agreed to decide when an employer can be held liable for a supervisor's sexual harassment of a lower-level employee. The issue has divided the lower courts in the decade since the Justices ruled that the creation of a hostile environment in the workplace, through pervasive sexual harassment, is a form of illegal sex discrimination. A11.
 
Business Criticizes Trade Red Tape Rival European and United States corporate executives who conferred in Rome recently agreed that duplicate regulations, not tariffs, hinder an expansion in trade. They proposed that if a product or factory passes inspection on one side of the Atlantic, it should be automatically accepted on the other. D14.
 
A $7.4 Billion Accounting Giant
Ernst & Young, the accounting firm, said that its domestic revenue for its fiscal year was $4.4 billion. Ernst & Young has agreed to merge with a rival, KPMG Peat Marwick, which has reported $3 billion in revenue. The merger partners have yet to agree on a name for the combined, $7.4 billion entity. D2.

Bill Would Delay New Bank Rules
Senator Lauch Faircloth, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee's subcommittee on financial institutions, introduced a bill that would stop new derivatives rules from the Financial Accounting Standards Board from taking effect for banks unless regulators first certify the standards. D14.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,572.48 up 84.72
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.10% Unchanged
The Dollar -- 125.62 down 0.45

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (92%); WM (NYSE) (66%); SIN (SWX) (57%); SIE (LSE) (57%); SIE (FRA) (57%); SIE (BIT) (57%); SI (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (66%); NAICS562213 SOLID WASTE COMBUSTORS & INCINERATORS (66%); NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (66%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (66%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (66%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (66%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (58%); 

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (92%); COWLES MEDIA CO (69%); WASTE MANAGEMENT INC (66%); SIEMENS AG (57%); MCCLATCHY NEWSPAPERS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); ROME, ITALY (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); EMPLOYER LIABILITY (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); CABLE INDUSTRY (75%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (74%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (68%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (64%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (64%); INCOME TAX (64%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (64%); DISCRIMINATION (64%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); TAX LAW (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



366 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON IS SENDING 2D CARRIER TO GULF

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
President Clinton signaled with words and with the dispatch of an aircraft carrier today that the United States is prepared to act -- with or without its allies -- to prevent Iraq from developing the ability to use chemical or biological weapons.
A day after the United Nations withdrew its weapons inspection team following Iraq's expulsion of the six American members, Mr. Clinton ordered the aircraft carrier George Washington and four other ships to the Persian Gulf, joining a fleet led by the carrier Nimitz. 
 The redeployment, a potent symbol, also bolstered the ability to strike Iraq hard, even if neighboring countries refuse permission to stage attacks from or over their lands.
Adding to an intensifying sense of confrontation, Mr. Clinton appeared twice at the White House today to issue stern warnings to President Saddam Hussein to back down and allow United Nations inspectors to resume their searches. He called Iraq's pursuit of major weapons systems "one of the three or four most significant security threats that all of our people will face."
At one point Mr. Clinton suggested that the United States was prepared to maintain sanctions against Iraq as long as Mr. Hussein remained. "What he has just done," the President said, referring to the expulsions, "is to insure that the sanctions will be there till the end of time, or as long as he lasts."
One of the biggest hurdles the Administration faces in garnering support has been a growing sense that the sanctions are hurting ordinary Iraqis, and a growing realization that Mr. Hussein has little reason to cooperate, given the the dim prospects that the sanctions will end soon.
The President's remarks undercut those diplomatic efforts, which continued with some urgency today.
Mr. Clinton met at the White House with King Hussein of Jordan, who "loosely related" the lack of support from Arab allies to frustration over the stalled Middle East peace talks, a senior Administration official said.
In Scotland, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright met with Britain's Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, who announced that Britain had ordered an aircraft carrier, the Invincible, to the Mediterranean from the Caribbean and put a squadron of Harrier jets on heightened alert.
"Our strategy is to combine intensive diplomacy with a robust military presence in the Gulf, which we are convinced is the best way to convince Saddam Hussein to reverse course," Ms. Albright said in London, where she met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel in an attempt to to revive the peace talks.
It will take at least a week for the George Washington to reach the Persian Gulf. Short of a direct Iraqi threat to American aircraft -- including U-2 spy planes, which are to resume flying over central Iraq for the United Nations as early as Sunday -- it does not appear military action is imminent.
But in Iraq, the Government appeared to brace for an attack. Television broadcasts show families gathering in one of Mr. Hussein's palaces to act as shields, for example.
In a news conference at the Pentagon, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Henry H. Shelton, called the redeployment "a prudent measure to demonstrate how seriously the U.S. takes both this challenge to the authority of the U.N., and also the continued pursuit of these dangerous weapons" by Iraq.
The United States still does not have assurances from the Saudis that they will allow attacks from Saudi Arabia, where more than 100 American planes are based, even though Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen has consulted with the Saudis, an Administration official said.
The Administration is also seeking Saudi support to dispatch an "air expeditionary force" of 20 to 30 fighter jets and bombers to the region, officials said. The force, which could use equipment already in Saudi Arabia, could support long-range B-52 bombers and possibly B-1's, which have never flown in combat.
Having the George Washington in the gulf with the Nimitz will double the number of fighters and bombers that could attack Iraq without crossing any country's airspace. The United States will also have more than a dozen ships capable of firing cruise missiles deep into Iraq.
But keeping the emphasis on diplomacy, Mr. Clinton promised to "work intensively with our allies and our friends in the region" to force Mr. Hussein to change course. He said he would be calling world leaders, and aides said they would include President Jacques Chirac of France and President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia, whose governments have opposed military action now.
Ms. Albright is also expected to meet with her counterparts in Europe and the Mideast before attending an economic conference in Qatar and then going to India and Pakistan.
In Turkey, where the United States and Britain have about 50 planes patrolling northern Iraq, Foreign Minister Ismail Cem said the United States had not asked for permission to launch attacks on Iraq.
"I would prefer that nobody asks us something which will be considered hostile by any other power," he said. "But these are realities. If these realities emerge, we will make the correct choice, the rational choice."
Despite the sanctions imposed after the gulf war and several military strikes by the United States since then, President Hussein has continued to defy the United Nations. In the latest confrontation, he has all but dared the United States and its allies to retaliate.
Wary of the eroding will at the United Nations for military retaliation, Mr. Clinton and his aides repeatedly denounced Iraq's efforts to build biological weapons.
The President's aides have decided on this strategy as a way to shift attention from the suffering of Iraq's people to the consequences of Iraq's ability to make weapons of mass destruction. "This is a crisis of Saddam's making," Mr. Clinton said. "It can be unmade only when he can no longer threaten the international community with weapons of mass destruction."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the White House yesterday, the President announced dispatch of a second carrier to the Persian Gulf. Samuel R. Berger, left, the national security adviser, and Erskine B. Bowles, the chief of staff, also attended. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 
Chart/Map: "OVERVIEW: Steaming Toward the Gulf"
The United States has considerable forces in the Persian Gulf region that could be used against Iraq, including about 18,500 troops. Last year the United States used long-range B-52's to fire missiles at Iraq.
 
TURKEY -- As part of its patrols of the northern no-flight zone over Iraq, the United States has 28 fighter jets 2/3-- F-16's and F-15's 2/3-- and other support aircraft based at Incirlik, Turkey. Britain and Turkey also patrol the zone from the base, bringing the number of aircraft to about 50, with about 1,400 troops supporting them.
 
SAUDI ARABIA AND KUWAIT -- The U.S. Air Force and Army have about 120 combat and support aircraft as well as weapons and personnel at various bases in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
 
EN ROUTE -- The carrier George Washington and other ships are en route to the Persian Gulf from the Mediterranean.
 
PERSIAN GULF -- The Nimitz carrier group includes 50 F-14's and F-18's and 27 other planes and helicopters. There are also two cruisers, four destroyers, three frigates and an attack submarine. All but the frigates are capable of firing cruise missiles like the Tomahawk, which have a range of 500 miles.
(Source: Periscope Military Database)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (95%); JORDAN (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KUWAIT (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SCOTLAND (67%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: ;UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); US AIR FORCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); US AIR FORCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; PERSIAN GULF; GREAT BRITAIN; JORDAN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (95%); JORDAN (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); TURKEY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KUWAIT (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SCOTLAND (67%); INDIAN OCEAN (94%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; GEORGE WASHINGTON (USS); AIRCRAFT CARRIERS; NIMITZ (USS); ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); INSPECTIONS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (73%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); ESPIONAGE (67%); ARMED FORCES (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; HUSSEIN I (KING OF HASHEMITE JORDAN); MYERS, STEVEN LEE; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); COOK, ROBIN (SEC) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); ERSKINE BOWLES (59%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



367 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: A Package Deal Reduces Railroad Fares, but Not for All Commuters

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Nov. 14

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has an offer that many suburban commuters are finding hard to resist: Buy $60 worth of bus and subway fares on a Metrocard and get a 9 percent discount on a monthly rail ticket.
But some commuters who have no need for a Metrocard say that the deal, which starts in January, is unfair, and they are talking about taking legal action. 
 One such critic is Robin Schneider-Weissbratten, who rides the Long Island Rail Road every workday but does not use the city transit system. When she began commuting 20 years ago, she said, she chose to work in the garment industry so she could save on subway fares. Today she still commutes from Hicksville to Pennsylvania Station, then walks a few blocks to her job in textile sales in the garment district.
"Why should I pay more for my train ticket than the person sitting next to me, just because they take a subway to Wall Street?" said Ms. Schneider-Weissbratten. "We both take up the same amount of space, we both take a seat. It's discrimination." She hopes that riders who walk to and from the train stations will join together in a class-action lawsuit.
A co-worker, Joan V. Zuckerman of Valley Stream, agreed: "Whoever thought of this plan, I just don't think it makes sense. It's not fair."
Under the plan, the reduced fares will apply to any commuter who buys $60 worth of city transit rides on the Metrocard on the back of the monthly train ticket. Those tickets must be purchased through the Mail and Ride service of the Long Island Rail Road or the Metro-North Commuter Railroad.
In addition to the discounted train tickets, customers will get a bonus of four free subway or bus rides a month. The tickets and any unused credit for transit rides will expire at the end of each month.
The transportation authority said it adopted the discounts to reduce transfer costs for people who use both suburban trains and city subways or buses, to reward these high-volume users and to help the regional economy by making longer trips easier for working people.
"We are trying to do as much as we can for as many people as we can, but there will always be someone who is not satisfied," said the M.T.A.'s deputy executive director, Christopher P. Boylan. "The private sector offers people discounts based on volume, and now people who use our system more will get a discount."
Although some people have called in complaints, the general response to the discount has been favorable, transportation officials said.
"Everybody that came to the M.T.A. hearings loved it," Mr. Boylan said. In the first week of enrollment earlier this month, 8,500 riders signed up, which he said "is really quite good." The authority says it hopes for greater use of Mail and Ride because it is more efficient than ticket windows and machines.
So far, the reaction of commuter and transit advocates is mixed. One key supporter is the executive director of the Permanent Citizens Advisory Committee to the M.T.A., Beverly Dolinsky. She likened the discount to the time-honored marketing ploy that "if you buy a dozen of something, you get an extra one thrown in free."
Another commuter advocate said he favored modifying and expanding the incentives. "We have urged free transfers to the buses and subways," said the chairman of the L.I.R.R. Commuters Council, Larry Silverman, who sits on the M.T.A. board. "And I don't think the program should be limited to the Mail and Ride customers. The bottom line is to get people out of cars and onto trains."
The sharpest attack came from Joseph G. Rappaport, coordinator of the Straphangers Campaign for city transit riders. Because of unequal government subsidies, city transit riders already pay a bigger share of operating costs than suburban commuters do, and he said the discount worsens the imbalance. The discount also rolls back the 1995 commuter fare increase, he said, while the Metrocard bonuses of 11 rides for the price of 10, to take effect in January, will only partly offset the last transit fare increase.
"What is it with the M.T.A. that they just can't be fair?" Mr. Rappaport said. "It's another slap in the face of city residents who ride the subways and buses, who once again are getting a raw deal."
Critics also contend that since the discount is based on a percentage, it benefits long-distance commuters the most. On Metro-North, for example, the monthly ticket for the shortest trip, to 125th Street in Harlem, costs $94 monthly, with a discount of about $102 a year. For the longest ride, to the Waterbury area in Connecticut, the monthly ticket is $283, with a discount of about $306 a year. The four bonus Metrocard rides a month add up to about $72 a year.
"I would prefer a free transfer and to see it applied evenly," Mr. Silverman said.
Ms. Schneider-Weissbratten said that although she has no objection to giving commuters a break on city transit fares, she drew the line at two-tiered commuter fares.
After she wrote to the L.I.R.R. to complain, an official called her, she said. "He said this was the only equitable way to do it," she said. "I said, 'Equitable to whom?' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robin Schneider-Weissbratten says a fare discount is unfair because it excludes commuters like her who walk to and from city train stations. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY; LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY; LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (93%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); TRAINS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); GARMENT WORKERS (74%); TEXTILES (69%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE; SCHNEIDER-WEISSBRATTEN, ROBIN

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



368 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Loving and Hating Those Big Dream Machines

BYLINE: BY BRENT STAPLES

 BODY:
Some fathers joined the Elks, the Masons or Rotary. But during the 1960's my father, my grandfather and my uncles belonged to the Big Wheels, a club of men who drove trucks for a living and for whom the very act of breathing required vehicular motion. Every fourth Sunday the Big Wheels put on their sharpest suits and motored to meetings in Lincolns, Buicks and Cadillacs, the biggest, curviest, most lusted-after cars in American history.
Massively substantial dream machines symbolized prosperity and promise for men who had lived through the Depression and a war before landing in the fat and sassy 50's. Going into debt for such a car seemed as American and as righteous as tithing for the church. When a Big Wheel bought a new car, the rest gathered fervently around it, drinking in the rhapsodic lines, the chrome-laden hugeness. Those of us who were children then are in our 40's now, and it should come as no surprise that we are magnetically drawn to big cars. 
 This affection for enormous machines explains why the S.U.V., or sport utility vehicle, is flying out of showrooms even as the sages demonize it. Owners of small cars fear being crushed by S.U.V.'s. Environmentalists condemn them as gas-guzzlers. These are serious concerns. But beyond them lies a snide condescension toward the owners -- and an ignorance of the culture-wide habits that produced the bulk-up.
Americans accepted small, "sensible" cars but never embraced them. Detroit's early economy efforts -- Corvair, Falcon, Valiant -- were immediately bulked up because Americans declined to buy them small. Japanese imports have gone the same way, starting out as specks and ending up indistinguishable from bigger American models.
Subcompacts are underwhelming to consumers. The big three auto makers have to offer them at a loss to induce us to drive them. By contrast, virtually all of Detroit's profits now come from big cars that evade Federal conservation laws by posing as "light trucks."
Contempt for small cars is emotional at its core, but carries at least a facade of rationality. Small cars are noisier, harder to handle in bad weather, and worst of all you feel every bump. But even if small cars were impeccably made, they would collide with my generation's ancestral memory that an authentic car should be big and comfy -- and indistinguishable from the family living room. The mini-van failed in this regard because it is tinny, underpowered and dowdy. Its bread-loaf shape shouts "suburban runabout" and connotes a middle-aged driver on a trip to the supermarket. The sport utility vehicle's brutish appearance and pachyderm bulk resonate with a cultural archetype. It equals power, youth and virility in the male buyer's mind. The appeal is clearly subliminal, and as stealthy as a pheromone.
The Land Cruiser, Range Rover and Suburban have been beaten up pretty badly, but the worst is reserved for the Navigator, which just rolled off the line at 5,600 pounds, more than 17 feet long -- and 15 miles per gallon of gas. This is sorry mileage. But what's really sorry is Federal law that forbids it in a car but permits it in a "light truck."
To see even the Navigator as aberrantly large or irrational is to forget an entire century of auto making and, more personally, the Sunday auto worship I shared with my father and the Big Wheels. American cars are, inescapably, more than transport. They have historically been touchstones for both personal and cultural aspiration. Americans drove right into the 80's in sedans longer than any utility vehicle on the market or station wagons no less wide. General motors built its largest cars ever -- just under 20 feet -- in the teeth of the 70's, with several models only a hair shorter than the Cadillacs that traditionally topped the size charts. If not for the oil crisis, they all would have gotten wider and heavier still.
The new big cars are no more irrational than the cars that have obsessed Americans throughout the century. The persistence of S.U.V. sales in the face of assault on their safety suggests that these affections are not fading. Indeed, the pachyderms thronging through city streets show that the Big Wheel impulse runs very, very deep.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); HISTORY (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



369 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: For U.S. Retailers, Grinch Brings a Tight Job Market

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Godiva Chocolatier is practically giving away candy to new employees. Managers at a Sears, Roebuck & Company store in Detroit are offering recruiting bonuses of $100. And August Max Woman, a clothing company, has raised part-time wages as much as 20 percent.
These are some of the lengths to which American retailers are going to attract help for the Christmas season. Low levels of unemployment not seen in more than a quarter of a century and the glowing health of other industries offering better-paying jobs have combined to create the most difficult holiday season in memory for retailers looking for extra sales help. 
 "I would say this is one of the most significant challenges retailers have faced in recent decades," said Bruce Van Kleeck, a vice president of the National Retail Federation, the industry's trade group. "The employment situation is so good for the United States not a lot of people are seeking jobs."
It is too soon to tell just how much this employee shortage will hurt the retail industry. But some implications are already clear. Offering steep discounts to seasonal employees and lifting wages may squeeze retailing profits, particularly if sales this holiday season are anything less than stellar.
A bigger question for the public is how the shortage will affect customer service. Shoppers -- many of whom already take a dim view of the service they receive in most retail stores -- may be in for longer lines at the cash register and fewer people to answer questions and help find merchandise in the right size and color. It is already easy to imagine plenty of harried consumers vowing to get their shopping done before Halloween next year.
"Anyone who puts in an application will be getting an interview," said Robin Lanier, a spokeswoman for the International Mass Retail Association, which represents 61,000 stores run by mass retailers.
"If you don't have the sheer numbers of bodies, leave aside the quality of people, it can be bad for service," she conceded.
"You also have the problem of turnover," Ms. Lanier added. "Younger employees are coming to work, then they suddenly get a better offer down the street and someone you were counting on has moved to someone else."
The national unemployment rate fell to 4.7 percent in October, the lowest since 1973, and some metropolitan areas like Minneapolis and Atlanta report jobless figures closer to 2.5 percent. For retailers, who usually try to increase their payrolls by 4 percent to 15 percent during the Christmas shopping season, the pool of available workers is looking increasingly shallow.
"Restaurants, movie theaters and hotels that generally attract the same type of individuals we do are all doing exceptionally well," said Mr. Van Kleeck of the national trade group. "So there is lots of competition for people."
In addition to offering higher wages and deeper employee discounts, retailers have resorted to such strategies as enticing retirees into the stores to wrap gifts and urging their own non-sales employees to earn overtime pay on the selling floor on weekends.
"We are definitely having to look harder for good people," said Bob Arruda, the store manager at the Bombay Company in Stamford, Conn. He said the company this year would offer 30 percent employee discounts to part-time help, compared with 20 percent last year. Bombay will also give, for the first time, a $75 bonus to any part-time worker who finishes the season.
Even temporary employment agencies, which have generally not provided labor for retailers' selling floors, are getting in on the action. Donald Stallard, the chief executive of Reserves Network in Cleveland, said that 5 percent to 10 percent of his 3,000 clients are now retailers looking for sales help. A few years ago, practically no retailers were using his agency.
For people like college students or the unemployed who cannot find full-time jobs, working in retail during the holiday season has long been a good way to earn extra money. That does not mean, though, that it is the most attractive place to work.
After the department store consolidations in the 1980's, many stores became stingier about sales commissions, especially for part-time help. Further, the pay is mediocre, the work can be demanding (pulling down 35 shirts for a snappish shopper who ends up buying nothing is nobody's idea of a good time), and the typical evening and weekend hours can be awkward to integrate with family life.
Pay is the easiest to change. A lot of retailers, used to paying little more than the minimum wage of $5.15 an hour plus commissions, are suddenly being forced to offer more.
"I would say that 25 percent to 30 percent of mall stores are luring them in with $6 to $8.50 an hour," said Karen MacDonald, a spokeswoman for Taubman Centers, a real estate investment trust based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., that owns shopping centers.
"Before, retailers never felt they had to offer higher than minimum wage. But it is an employee's market this year, and they have to work hard to keep them happy because there are so many other options out there."
At August Max Woman, a division of the Casual Corner Group, the starting hourly wage has been bumped from $5.50 to $5.75 or $6.75, depending on an applicant's experience. Target Stores, a unit of the Dayton Hudson Corporation, is offering higher pay to those prepared to work the least desired shifts. "If you have Sunday from 2 to 8, which is a difficult period, we might put an additional dollar an hour on those shifts," said Steve Kenady, the regional personnel director for Target.
Merchants are also offering juicier discounts for seasonal help. The Best Buy Company, an electronics retailer, lets holiday employees take 10 percent off right away instead of waiting the usual 30 days. The 10 percent discount at Target can now be used at Dayton Hudson's other stores, too. Godiva offers a whopping 50 percent discount, and a promise of fun on the job. "Who doesn't like chocolate?" asked Lisa George, the company's senior human resources director.
Melody Vaughn, who was hired to work as a sales clerk at a Pottery Barn in the Lenox Square Mall in Atlanta for the holiday season, said: "Being able to get a 20 percent discount at the holidays is the most important thing to me. Now I plan on buying all my Christmas gifts here. And working in a fun place with great discounts is better than a restaurant, where you smell."
Merchants are also resorting to clever recruiting methods. Best Buy gives any employee who refers help $100, up from $50. At the Sears in suburban Detroit, managers are offering $100 to charities that bring in candidates for seasonal employment. The Kmart Corporation solicits seasonal help through fliers inserted with its credit card bills. Many mall developers have set up on-site employment centers like the one at the Mall at Tuttle Crossing in Dublin, Ohio.
Retired people are another target group. Some retailers have sent recruiters to community centers or set up job fairs to persuade retirees to work for the season. "We find for some of our departments seniors do very well," said Jan Drummond, a spokeswoman for Sears. "Our customers like the maturity they bring to the job."
Indeed, Kimlah Hyatt, 60, a retired social services employee, said she could have had her pick of retail jobs and was thrilled to land a spot at Godiva in the Regency Square mall in Richmond.
"I have never had the opportunity to sell a beautiful product like chocolate," Ms. Hyatt said. "I got the best. The other people will have to take the dregs."
And if retailers cannot get help from the outside, they are happy to dangle carrots for those within. "A lot of corporate employees need extra cash at Christmas," said Marcy Jensen, the corporate recruiter for Best Buy. "We sat back and said, 'Why do we want them going to a Kmart when we need them in our own stores?' So, for the first year, we let them work evenings or weekends in the stores." Other merchants said they were offering similar programs.
But Wall Street, which has never paid much attention to the cost of part-time help, may be blind-sided if the shortage of help hurts retailers' bottom lines.
"Although it is difficult to assign a number," said Richard L. Church, a retail analyst at Smith Barney, "wage pressures increase selling costs. That is one factor that keeps me more cautious relative to others in terms of how good a season it is going to be."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I got the best," Kimlah Hyatt, a retired social services employee, says of her seasonal job at a Godiva store in Regency Square in Richmond. She said she could have had her pick of retail jobs. (Dean Hoffmeyer for The New York Times)(pg. D2)
 
Graphs: "Feeling the Pinch of a Strong Economy"
The retail industry, whose payrolls usually increase by 4 percent to 15 percent around the holidays, faces wage pressure and tight labor markets in some regions. Graphs show change in average earnings from the same quarter a year earlier, from 1995 to 1997, and the help wanted advertising index for the following regionsL West-South Central (Ark., La., Okla., Tex.'), Mountain (Mont., Ida., Wyo., Colo., N.M., Ariz., Utah, Nev.), Pacific (Wash., Ore., Calif., Alaska, Hawaii) and Middle Atlantic (N.Y., N.J., Pa.)
(Sources: The Conference Board; Haver Analytics)(pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: S (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (93%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (93%); SIC5441 CANDY, NUT, & CONFECTIONERY STORES (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: GODIVA CHOCOLATIER; SEARS ROEBUCK & CO GODIVA CHOCOLATIER INC (93%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (91%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GODIVA CHOCOLATIER; SEARS ROEBUCK & CO NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HIRING AND PROMOTION; LABOR; HOLIDAY TRADE; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; BONUSES; FRINGE BENEFITS ; INDUSTRY PROFILES EMPLOYMENT (97%); RETAILERS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); HALLOWEEN (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (76%); CHRISTMAS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER ; VAN VLEECK, BRUCE

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



370 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Albright Expresses Irritation After Talks With Netanyahu

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 14

 BODY:
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright expressed some irritation today with the Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, saying after long talks with him that Israeli and American interests required faster movement toward Middle East peace.
"I made clear that for the sake of the Middle East peace process and for our broader mutual interests in the region, it is time for us to move on the peace process," Ms. Albright said at a joint news conference with Mr. Netanyahu. With America's moderate Arab allies distancing themselves from Washington at a time of crisis in Iraq, she called for "a greater sense of urgency" on the part of Israelis and Palestinians. 
 "I believe it is essential for both sides to live up to agreements and not to make any steps that make it more complicated to move the process forward," she said, then repeated firmly, "It is time to move the process forward."
Ms. Albright meets the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, on Saturday in Bern, Switzerland, to try for some visible progress before she makes a brief stop on Sunday at an American-sponsored Middle Eastern economic conference in Doha, Qatar, that major Arab nations are boycotting.
 The Palestinian Authority will also boycott the conference, The Associated Press reported from Gaza. The decision was made Friday by the Authority's cabinet and legislative council, the A.P. said.
American officials say the lack of progress between Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Arafat caused that boycott, which is embarrassing to Washington and is damaging the American and Israeli positions in the region -- especially as Washington finds itself in a confrontation with Iraq.
Even the Israeli Foreign Minister, David Levy, has said he will not go to Doha, which Mr. Netanyahu denied was an insult to Ms. Albright, because the Israeli Minister for Trade, Natan Sharansky, is still going. Ms. Albright, for her part, said she would attend the Doha conference "because America keeps its word."
Ms. Albright said that her conversations with Mr. Netanyahu here were "useful," but that she would "reserve judgment" until she discovers how Mr. Arafat reacts to Mr. Netanyahu's positions. She said she would repeat similar admonitions to Mr. Arafat.
Mr. Netanyahu said Israel is "committed to keep our side of the agreements, and we'd like to see similar commitments from the other side."
Arab diplomats say Mr. Netanyahu's hesitation to carry out measures already agreed upon, like an airport and seaport in Gaza, is made worse by his clear reluctance to withdraw more troops from the West Bank, as he was to do in September.
Ms. Albright is meeting Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Arafat to try to consolidate and build on the limited progress made in Washington last week in talks between Israeli and Palestinian negotiators, "to try to avoid the usual dissipation and slippage" that follows such talks, a senior American official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); IRAQ (92%); QATAR (92%); 

CITY: BERN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); IRAQ (92%); QATAR (92%); BERN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BOYCOTTS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); 

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



371 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Dominicans May Allow Voting Abroad

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG and LARRY ROHTER 

 BODY:
In a move that promises to turn the Dominican immigrant community in New York City into a powerful electoral force in its homeland, the Dominican Government is poised to grant its citizens abroad the right to vote from polling places where they live.
While planeloads of Dominicans have routinely flown home from New York City to vote in presidential elections, their numbers have been too tiny to make an impact. This move, however, would instantly give the Dominican community in New York City the second-largest concentration of votes in any Dominican election, exceeded only by Santo Domingo, the capital. 
 For years, Dominican immigrants, whose weekly financial remittances are vital to their homeland's economic survival, have argued that denying them the right to vote from their new homes amounts to a variation on taxation without representation. And yesterday, many, particularly those who bankroll the political parties themselves, cheered the imminent change in their status. The voting-rights measure, which is working its way through the Dominican Congress and is expected to be signed by its President, would grant even naturalized American citizens of Dominican descent the right to vote and to run for office.
"It's about time," said Nelson Camacho, 52, the owner of a car service in Washington Heights. He has lived in New York City since 1980 but returns to the Dominican Republic at least twice a year for visits and now plans to run from New York for a Congressional seat there.
"This will legitimize us," he said. "This will mean that we have not lost our status as Dominicans by coming here and helping our motherland to survive and prosper. Culturally, we are one with the people who remain at home, and legally, there is no reason to make any distinction either."
Some Dominicans in New York reacted anxiously to the news. They expressed concern that the measure would keep new immigrants tethered to the politics of their homeland, preventing them from integrating themselves into their new lives. It could keep them looking backward, they said.
"If this ends up meaning that Dominicans here have less enthusiasm for participating politically here, it will have been counterproductive," said Moises Perez, executive director of the Alianza Dominicana, a social-service organization in Washington Heights. "We have limited funds. If we end up sending them disproportionately to the Dominican Republic, not just to our families but to political parties as well, it weakens our position here."
At least 15 percent of the Dominican Republic's population of 7.5 million lives abroad, with some 500,000 Dominicans in New York City (not all of whom would be eligible to vote). Some 30,000 to 40,000 immigrants arrive in New York every year, and they are the most likely to keep alive their ties by voting.
Well aware of the clout of its dollars, the Dominican population in New York spearheaded the campaign to extend voting rights to the approximately one million Dominicans who live abroad.
"As soon as we are able to vote from the United States, we will change the entire politics of the country," said Fernando Mateo, a Manhattan businessman who is the leader of a group called the Pro-Vote Movement for Dominicans Living Abroad. "This is something that is going to change the whole mind-set of the country, because we will be the ones who make the difference."
Some Dominicans in New York are self-centered in their goals; they want to use their vote to pressure politicians to reform laws that make them second-class citizens, economically, when they invest in their homeland or retire there.
The voting-rights measure, part of a broader electoral reform package, was unanimously approved last week by the Dominican Senate and has broad support in the lower house of the Dominican Congress. President Leonel Fernandez Reyna, who grew up on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and still holds an American residency permit, or green card, is expected to sign the measure.
"He is himself a product of that community," said Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, who ran against Mr. Fernandez but is also a supporter of the plan.
If approved, the proposal would go into effect in 2000, when the next Presidential election is scheduled. As currently structured, the legislation would also make it possible for Dominicans living abroad to vote in congressional elections, beginning as early as 2002.
All three principal Dominican political parties already have regional offices in New York City. Since the 1980's, Dominican presidential candidates have regularly campaigned in the city, courting investors. Three years ago, bowing to pressure from New Yorkers, the Dominican Republic adopted constitutional reforms that recognized the right to dual citizenship, paving the way for this electoral reform.
The clout of New York's Dominicans was apparent when Mr. Mateo made a recent visit to his homeland, meeting with influential members of Congress and delivering a tough message: "No vote, no more money," as one Dominican government official summarized it.
"From now on, if you want to win, you'll also have to campaign here and understand the needs of Dominicans living here," Mr. Mateo said.
One proposal to expand the electoral reform calls for creating new Congressional seats to represent Dominicans abroad.
The mechanics of how and where votes would be cast remains unclear. Several Latin American countries, most notably Colombia, already allow their citizens living abroad to vote in presidential elections, typically from the nearest consulate. But because the Dominican community in the United States is so large, such an arrangement has already been ruled out.
Adriano Espaillat, a New York State Assemblyman who represents Washington Heights, said he planned to ask for help from local election boards and in other cities with large Dominican populations, and to request the use of polling sites at schools and churches.
Mr. Espaillat said his only concern was that, with the right to vote, the politics of the Dominican Republic would prove too great a distraction to Dominicans in New York. "We don't want this to be divisive or disruptive or to lead to a split in our community among Dominican party lines," he said.
But Ramona Hernandez, a Brooklyn resident who teaches Latino studies at the University of Massachusetts in Boston, said many young Dominican-Americans, those born or raised here, are too distant from the politics of the Dominican Republic to be divided by its party politics.
"Their mind is basically here," she said.
Mr. Perez agreed. "Unless the current rate of immigration continues, this is a plan that will affect one or two generations only," he said. "Twenty years from now, Dominicans will be concerned about leaving their mark here, not there, and the influence of this legislation will diminish."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC; NEW YORK CITY; SANTO DOMINGO (DOMINICAN REPUBLIC); UNITED STATES (95%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DOMINICAN-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES IMMIGRATION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REFUGEES (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%); 

PERSON: SONTAG, DEBORAH; ROHTER, LARRY

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



372 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7
 
Another Aircraft Carrier Is Heading to Persian Gulf
President Clinton dispatched an aircraft carrier to join another already in the Persian Gulf in an attempt to signal that the United States did not take lightly Iraq's expulsion of six American members on an international weapons inspection team. A1 

Albright Urges Mideast Move
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright had talks with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel in London, during which she called on Israelis and Palestinians "to move on the peace process." She will meet the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat on her way to a Middle Eastern economic conference in Qatar that major Arab nations are boycotting. A6
 
U.N. Miffed at Vote on Arrears
Secretary General Kofi Annan said a vote in Congress that killed a plan to pay the United Nations more than $1 billion in back dues was "unreasonable and regrettable." The European Union "deplored" the way domestic discord about abortion policies held up the legislation. A7
 
Congo Investigator Resigns
One of three members of the United Nations team that arrived in Congo this week to investigate allegations of massacres by troops loyal to Laurent Kabila, now the President of the Democratic Republic of Congo, has resigned for personal reasons, United Nations officials said. A second member was weighing whether to step down, they added. Members of the team were concerned that the American representative to the United Nations, Bill Richardson, had promised Mr. Kabila's Government that it would be allowed to see their final report before it was submitted to the Secretary General. A7
 
French Return to Indochina
In Vietnam, where only about 1 percent of the population of 75 million speaks French, President Jacques Chirac of France and leaders of more than 30 other countries rallied to defend the "richness and purity" of the language. They were expected to name Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the former United Nations Secretary General, as their spokesman. A4
 
Questions on Russian Reformer
Russia's Parliament ordered an investigation into an implausibly large publishing advance for a book on privatization co-authored by First Deputy Prime Minister Anatoly Chubais. Mr. Chubais said charges that the payment was a "veiled bribe" were efforts to smear his role as a crusader for economic reform. A3
 
Ambassadors Return to Iran
Ambassadors from 11 European Union countries returned to Teheran after a six-month hiatus caused by a dispute between Iran and Germany, Teheran Radio said. It said the German and French ambassadors would return late next week. The European Union withdrew the envoys in April after a Berlin court ruled that Iranian leaders had ordered the killing of three Iranian Kurdish dissident leaders in a Berlin restaurant in 1992.
 (Reuters)
 
NATIONAL A8-14
 
Jury Recommends Death In C.I.A. Slaying Case
A jury recommended a death sentence for a Pakistani immigrant who was convicted this week of gunning down two C.I.A. employees in 1993 in a case that has reverberated in South Asia. A1
 
Immigration Law Blocked
A Federal judge in California reinforced her earlier decisions blocking enforcement of a ballot initiative, which sought to deny undocumented immigrants many social services, citing "obvious flaws in the initiative, constitutional and otherwise" and Federal immigration regulations that she said superseded Proposition 187. A8
 
Army Official Steps Down
The Army's chief personnel official, Sara E. Lister, resigned after apologizing to the Marines for having described them as "extremists" who were at risk of "total disconnection with society." A12
 
Chicago Police Official Retires
Hours after it was disclosed that he had a close friendship with a convicted felon, Chicago's police superintendent, Matt Rodriguez, said he was retiring, a decision that followed a stream of troubling incidents within the police department. A8
 
Court Takes Harassment Case
The Supreme Court agreed to decide when an employer can be held liable for a supervisor's sexual harassment of a lower-level employee. The issue has divided the lower courts in the decade since the Justices ruled that the creation of a hostile environment in the workplace, through pervasive sexual harassment, is a form of illegal sex discrimination. A11
 
House Opens Ethics Inquiry
The House ethics committee said it had begun an investigation into Representative Bud Shuster, the influential Pennsylvania Republican who is chairman of the House Transportation Committee. The committee acted in response to a year-old complaint questioning a series of ties between Mr.Shuster and a lobbyist, Ann Eppard, who had formerly been his chief of staff for 22 years. A10
 
Kevorkian Assists in Death
Dr. Jack Kevorkian's argument with the Roman Catholic Church over assisted suicide escalated after his lawyer said Dr. Kevorkian had helped an elderly woman die on Thursday night in a church in the Detroit archdiocese. His lawyer told reporters the woman's assisted suicide came with the help of "a sympathetic priest." The lawyer said the woman suffered from cancer and had asked to die in a church. A10
 
Chung Gives Private Testimony
Johnny Chung, a California businessman who gave $366,000 to the Democratic Party in last year's election campaign and visited the White House about 50 times, refused to testify under oath to House investigators. But, behind closed doors, Mr. Chung gave the investigators an informal account of his political activities. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-5
 
State Regents Mandate 3 Years of Language Study
The state Board of Regents voted to require most high school students to pass three years of a foreign language to earn a diploma. The language requirement was adopted as part of a sweeping plan to toughen graduation standards for high school students. But while most elements of the plan -- like more stringent requirements in math and science -- had been discussed at length months ago, the foreign language requirement had never before come up. A1
 
N.A.A.C.P. Backs Chapter
In an abrupt reversal, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has agreed to defend a Kingston, N.Y., chapter president who was sued after she helped publicize a tape in which a Kingston police officer is heard making racially derogatory remarks. B5
 
Dominicans Get Voting Rights
In a move that promises to turn the Dominican immigrant community in New York City into a powerful electoral force in its homeland, the Dominican government is poised to grant its citizens abroad the right to vote by absentee ballot. This would give the Dominican community in New York City the second-largest concentration of votes in any Dominican election, exceeded only by Santo Domingo, the capital. B1
 
OBITUARIES A15
 
Eddie Arcaro
The premier jockey in the United States for 31 years who won the Kentucky Derby five times and twice swept the Triple Crown was 81. A15
 
Leon William Johnson
An Air Force general who won the Medal of Honor in World War II for his role in leading a daring low-level raid that throttled enemy fuel supplies from Romania's vast oil fields in 1943, he was 93. A15
 
Carlos Surinach
An American composer of Spanish birth who drew freely on the rhythmic and melodic conventions of flamenco in his works, he was 82. A15
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-14
 
Stocks Strong Globally
A resurgence in global stock markets helped erase the remnants of Wall Street's midweek tumble, but the rebound was partly overshadowed by other volatility that hurt the dollar, buffeted bonds and sent gold prices down to 12 1/2-year lows. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 84.72 points to finish at 7,572.48, its second straight gain of more than 80 points. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
ARTS B7-17
 
EDITORIAL A16-17
Editorials: Gigantism on the Yangtze; high-speed trains, low-speed lines; foreign-policy vandalism; Brent Staples on America's big cars.
 
Columns: Maureen Dowd, Frank Rich.
 
Bridge B16
 
Weather B15
 
Crossword B12

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); ISRAEL (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAQ (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GERMANY (92%); GULF STATES (91%); IRAN (90%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); QATAR (79%); VIET NAM (69%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); ISRAEL (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAQ (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GERMANY (92%); GULF STATES (91%); IRAN (90%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); QATAR (79%); VIET NAM (69%); INDIAN OCEAN (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); JURY TRIALS (84%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); INSPECTIONS (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); BOYCOTTS (69%); ABORTION (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1997



373 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 15, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: Asian-Americans Set To Flex Political Muscle

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 14

 BODY:
For leaders of Asian-American organizations, the outcome of the 1996 elections promised to be a turning point. Voters chose two governors of Asian-Pacific descent, and in California, home to nearly half the nation's Asian-Americans, turnout among them reached record levels. Hopes rose that an Asian-American would win a Cabinet post in the Clinton Administration.
Instead, Asian-Americans have faced a solid year of bad publicity over campaign finance, and this week their hopes for a path-breaking appointment were stuck, at least for the moment, in the stymieing of Bill Lann Lee's nomination to be Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights, his candidacy a casualty of partisan fighting over affirmative action. 
 But now, in law offices and civic organizations around the country, Asian-Americans are not only vowing to join the White House in pressing on for Mr. Lee. They are hoping that his setback will prove a catalyst to greater political involvement by a rapidly growing minority that has struggled for years with its stereotype as a "model," and are busy organizing voter registration and education drives to exercise their power.
"The experience with Bill's nomination has again brought home to the community that it's not enough to achieve, it's not enough to be respected in your field," said Karen Narasaki, executive director of the National Asian Pacific American Legal Consortium, a civil rights group in Washington that has helped lead the fight for Mr. Lee's confirmation.
"This has been another wake-up call that if we're going to actually be at the table, and to have Asian-Americans in high levels in the government, people are going to have to become more politically engaged than they were before," Ms. Narasaki said. "That may not take the form of increasing donations to political parties, but more involvement in the grass-roots political work of the community."
The nomination fight that has galvanized many Asian-Americans shows no signs of abating in Washington, where the White House chief of staff, Erskine B. Bowles, said of Mr. Lee today, "I assure you he will be the next Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights." Other White House officials said President Clinton had not decided whether to use powers enabling him to appoint Mr. Lee during the Senate's adjournment, or whether instead to wait until next year to continue the fight.
From the backbreaking work of building the transcontinental railroad to the high-tech triumphs of the Silicon Valley, the Asian-American experience has been a bittersweet blend. Partly because of immigration quotas and laws that until the 1950's barred Asians from naturalized citizenship, their economic advancement and academic achievement have long outpaced political involvement and electoral success.
But slowly, the sheer realities of demographics are beginning to change that. Asian-Pacific Americans now make up 10 percent of the population in California, which itself is home to about 40 percent of the nation's 7.2 million Asian-Americans. Asian-American turnout at the California polls hovered for years between 2 and 4 percent of the statewide electorate, but it rose to 5 percent in 1996, and by just after the turn of the century, some experts predict, it will reach 10 percent.
National surveys have repeatedly shown Asian-Americans to be among the most independent of voters, evenly divided as a group in party registration and splitting their ballots among candidates and issues case by case, with particular attention to immigration and civil rights.
In 1996, for example, surveys of Vietnamese-Americans leaving the polls in Orange County found a 2-to-1 registration advantage for Republicans but only a 54-to-46-percent edge for Bob Dole over Bill Clinton, and 70 percent opposition to Proposition 209, the ballot initiative that barred race- and sex-based preferences in public hiring and contracting, according to Stewart Kwoh, executive director of the Asian Pacific American Legal Center here.
"Generally we find that Asian-Americans don't really have a strong party affiliation; they really go to specific issues and candidates," said Mr. Kwoh, whose group held a "summit" of about 70 community leaders last Saturday to begin a permanent voter registration drive modeled on the Southwest Voter Registration Education Project, a group that has registered nearly 1.5 million Hispanic voters since 1992.
The Asian-American population is an amalgam of diverse ethnicities and national origins, and subgroups affiliate differently, Mr. Kwoh said, with Vietnamese-Americans tending to be Republican, Filipinos solidly Democratic and Chinese-Americans split among Republicans, Democrats and independents. But he and others say support for the Lee nomination and anger at the tactics of Mr. Lee's Republican opponents have spread across party lines.
All this leaves independent political experts wondering why Republicans, already so stung by Hispanic voters in states like California on questions of immigration, would risk alienating another emerging voter group by opposing Mr. Lee's nomination on political and policy grounds, even while acknowledging that he is well qualified for the post.
"I cannot conceive that they haven't figured this out," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political analyst at the Claremont Graduate School. "I mean, how many times do these people have to be hit in between the eyes with a two-by-four before they figure out the arithmetic?"
Don T. Nakanishi, the director of the Asian American Studies Center at the University of California at Los Angeles, who was a classmate of Mr. Lee at Yale 30 years ago, said he expected that "this extraordinary ideological controversy" over the nomination would prove to be a watershed in Asian-American political involvement.
"I think there's bitterness out there, but I also think in some ways maybe the campaign finance controversy, as well as what Bill's gone through, will become a rite of passage," Professor Nakanishi said. "One of the lessons clearly is that politics can be a rough game, and that in trying to advocate for Bill it has nothing to do with his education or his qualifications. It's politics.
"In that sense," he added, "I think we'll take things a lot less for granted, in terms of organizing and in being much firmer in terms of the kinds of commitments we want for the support we offer."
Although Asian-Americans have often parted company with other minority groups on political issues, the controversy over the nomination of Mr. Lee, long the Western regional director of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, has forged some new alliances. Opposition to his candidacy has been led by Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, and leaders of the small Asian-American community in Salt Lake City have linked up for the first time with the local N.A.A.C.P. chapter to support the nomination.
"They learned there were so many more things they could have been doing" with such an alliance, said Ms. Narasaki, of the Asian Pacific American Legal Consortium. "We hope to try to use this as an opportunity to keep building cooperation."
Ms. Narasaki recounted one brief moment in her own education in realpolitik. On Thursday, as she and other supporters of Mr. Lee, along with opponents, waited in a long line outside the Senate Judiciary Committee's hearing room in Washington, hoping to get in to watch deliberations, Clint Bolick, vice president for litigation at the Institute for Justice, a leading foe of the nomination, escorted a group in the back door as guests of Mr. Hatch.
"We didn't realize there was a reservation system," said Ms. Narasaki, who ultimately managed to talk her own way in. "How ironic that Clint Bolick was talking about preferences and favoritism, and that's what happens."
Bruce L. Ishimatsu, former president of the Asian Pacific Bar of California, said the fight over Mr. Lee meant that Asian-Americans would now work harder to cultivate candidates for office.
"We have been good citizens," he said. "We have been good contributors to the political process, and we're getting blasted for it. You will start to see some changes, targeting of offices for election and so on. There is a growing feeling in the community that we are virtually outsiders when it comes to the powers in government."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stewart Kwoh of the Asian Pacific American Legal Center, organizer of a drive to register large numbers of Asian-American voters. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: ASIAN AMERICAN JUSTICE CENTER (54%); ASIAN AMERICAN JUSTICE CENTER (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN AMERICAN JUSTICE CENTER (54%); ASIAN AMERICAN JUSTICE CENTER (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ASIAN AMERICANS (94%); ELECTIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); ERSKINE BOWLES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1997



374 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 19; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Puzzle

BYLINE: By Lucian W. Pye; Lucian W. Pye is the Ford Professor of Political Science emeritus at M.I.T. and the author of numerous studies of Chinese political culture, including "Asian Power and Politics."

 BODY:

UNDERSTANDING
 CHINA
 A Guide to China's
 Economy, History,
 and Political Structure.
 By John Bryan Starr.
 Maps. 338 pp. New York:
 Hill & Wang. $25. 
 The American public has been put on notice that the big story of the 21st century is going to be the emergence of an awakened China. There remains, however, considerable uncertainty over how this prospect affects our long-held, contradictory stereotypes of a worthy, "good" China and a despicable, "bad" China. The periodic television reports on China tend to engage in overkill -- as with the Tiananmen Square massacre and the reversion of Hong Kong -- leaving the public in need of more balanced and nuanced information.
"Understanding China," by John Bryan Starr, based on a seminar he taught for 17 years at Yale University, provides an excellent introduction to China for anyone in search of solid but concise information about that complicated country.
Packed with facts and figures, but enlivened with firsthand observations, Starr's book is straightforward and unpretentious, like the presentations of an informed tour guide. He sticks closely to the facts and avoids theoretical interpretations that are not tethered to evidence.
Starr's approach is to identify the fundamental problems confronting China today and then to ask whether the Chinese political system is up to the task of resolving them. He strives to be fair and sympathetic, even to the point of giving weight to the Chinese views about human rights, and he calls for a supportive United States policy that goes beyond simple "engagement." Yet in the end, he says that China's intractable problems are going to be too much for the current political system.
By the time he has finished reviewing the problems of environmental degradation, inadequate infrastructure, population growth, failed state-owned enterprises, underfinanced education and the recent rise in both rural and urban discontent, he has no alternative but to reach what I would call a cautiously pessimistic position. "In sum," he writes, "China has a protracted and problematical time ahead."
The future, Starr contends, cannot be a continuation of the Deng era. Nor, he says, will there be a return to Maoist policies. He also rejects the possibility of China following the Taiwan model of a transition to democracy. "At the moment," he states, "there are no signs in China of a visionary and powerful leader ready to launch a move toward democratization. . . . Also lacking is a strong commitment to democracy on the part of a politically aware and active public."
He is not entirely comfortable with his conclusion: that the most likely prospect for China is an eventual collapse of the party-state system, a development that he believes could be followed by the People's Liberation Army taking on a semi-praetorian role.
It is easy to arrive at more optimistic forecasts for China by focusing on the many positive developments there and by playing down the troublesome, negative ones. What makes Starr's account important is that he has tried hard to balance all the positives and negatives, yet cannot escape a gloomy conclusion.
Still, the striking contrast between the concreteness of Starr's descriptions and the uncertainties about China's future highlights a troublesome contradiction that bedevils any attempt at prediction. Everyone knows that China is ruled not by law but by men, yet the leaders operate in secrecy, and so we have little basis for judging them. Instead, we end up overanalyzing the formal organization of the Government, even though we know it is less important than the personal relations of the rulers. Starr has effectively identified the problems China faces, but he is unable to tell us whether its future rulers will have the ability to muddle through, keeping China on an upward course. This rather more optimistic view requires stronger faith in China's system of rule-by-men than he is able to muster.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: UNDERSTANDING CHINA (BOOK)

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); LITERATURE (67%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%); 

PERSON: PYE, LUCIAN W; STARR, JOHN BRYAN JOHN H BRYAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



375 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 7; Page 10; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: A Long Way From the Back of the Bus

BYLINE: By James Q. Wilson; James Q. Wilson is the author of "Moral Judgment" and "The Moral Sense."

 BODY:

THE ORDEAL
 OF INTEGRATION
 Progress and Resentment in America's "Racial" Crisis.
 By Orlando Patterson.
 233 pp. Washington:
 Civitas Counterpoint. $24.50. 
 Three decades after the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1965, it seems that an intellectual defense of racial integration still needs to be written. Although most Americans, black and white, now judge people as unique individuals and not as racial symbols (this is the chief lesson of our contemporary racial transformation), too many, including many prominent leaders, continue to believe that symbols are all that matter. Orlando Patterson, a professor of sociology at Harvard and the author of distinguished books on slavery and the emergence of human freedom, takes on these people with "The Ordeal of Integration," a book that is defiant, even angry, often right and sometimes wrong.
His main argument is that extremists on the left and right have denied the extraordinary progress that has been made by Afro-Americans (a term Patterson, for reasons I will explain, deliberately chooses to employ). While recognizing that problems remain, Patterson writes that the extent of the achievement of the last 40 years in American race relations "cannot be overstated." He fleshes out this judgment with a summary of Afro-American progress in education, economic achievement, popular entertainment and public attitudes. (A fuller, more systematic account of this progress -- and of the shortcomings -- can be found in Stephan and Abigail Thernstrom's recent book, "America in Black and White: One Nation, Indivisible.")
Among Afro-Americans, Patterson reports, the middle class is now larger than the poor. This is a remarkable change from just 30 years ago. In 1967, Afro-American families headed by a married couple earned 68 percent as much as their Euro-American (again, Patterson's term) counterparts; by 1995, that had risen to 87 percent. There is, of course, an Afro-American underclass that is fed by out-of-wedlock teen-age births and that often expresses itself in crime and drug abuse. But that group is smaller than many imagine -- perhaps 900,000 people in all. Patterson laments its existence and describes its habits with painful honesty.
But the larger group is doing better than even it thinks. Fewer than 40 percent of Afro-Americans say they have ever faced discrimination in hiring, and 74 percent say they are satisfied with their lives. But a majority of Afro-Americans think that the quality of life for all members of their group has become worse or remained the same, and nearly two-thirds think that hiring discrimination abounds.
Patterson explains this conflict between what blacks think of their group and what they think of themselves in part by what he calls "liberal racialization." By this he means the tendency among some liberals who have condemned the use of race as a biological category to revive and give equally powerful meaning to race as a social category. Since real racism exists, there is some truth in doing this. But when every misfortune is laid at the feet of a white majority, occasional abuses by individuals are perceived as racial oppression.
This perception of racism causes a weakening of the human spirit by denying to people a chance to improve themselves. Patterson quotes the philosopher Sidney Hook on this matter: "One feels lessened as a human being if one's actions are always excused or explained away on the ground that . . . one is really not responsible for them." Or in Patterson's words, "if one is not responsible for one's problems, one can claim no credit for one's achievements."
Patterson has no patience with Afro-American writers who invent absurd stories about the natural superiority of blacks or perpetuate the ancient segregationist claim that anyone is black if he or she has "one drop" of black blood. He is angry at white liberals who keep Afro-Americans in a perpetual trap of racial identity, forever subjected to whatever white society should decide for them. He cannot abide Andrew Hacker, whose book "Two Nations" gave, in Patterson's opinion, a wholly deterministic view of racial (or, in Patterson's language, ethnic) identity.
The intellectual heart of Patterson's book is his rumination on the superiority of the doctrine of individual moral autonomy, by which he means "dignity and the ethic of personal responsibility." At root this doctrine requires one to renounce the whole idea of race, because racial identity is a form of social determinism. It is for this reason that Patterson refers to the people generally called blacks as Afro-Americans, no different as a group from Irish-Americans or Italian-Americans. Race, to him, has no biological or mental significance; it is a construct, invented by segregationists to justify segregation and perpetuated today by both those who sympathize with Afro-Americans in a way that sustains their special, and thus specially suppressed, status and those who criticize government policies aimed at helping them. To be free is to be free of group identity, whoever defines that identity and no matter how much individual members of the group claim to cherish it. Patterson is so much the integrationist that he wants "race" removed from the census tabulation.
Despite his dislike of racial categories, however, Patterson supports affirmative action. Racial identity, which he has rejected as a census label or a mode of thinking, now suddenly reappears as important enough to warrant special treatment. Patterson's view is that no society can fail to acknowledge some group claims. (In America, for instance, these include preferences for veterans.) He is not altogether happy with what affirmative action has actually produced. On college campuses, he finds "ethnic separatism, alternating with periodic outbursts of ethnic, gender and other chauvinistic hostilities." Nonetheless, he would like the program to continue "for at least another 15 years," but to be limited to women and Afro-Americans, excluding first-generation African and Caribbean men and many (but not all) Hispanic men. It would be cut back in "about five years" so that it no longer aided Afro-Americans and women from upper-middle-class backgrounds, and cut back again in 10 years so that only poor blacks and poor women would be helped. Fifteen years from today it would be ended, and replaced with a program that served all Americans from poor families, one that would continue so long as there is any poverty.
Nowhere does Patterson explain how all this would be done. What preferences would these groups get, and from whom? Why would white women benefit when they were never enslaved? How do you get bureaucracies to make the appropriate distinctions? Why, indeed, would one wish to preserve race as a category if racial identity is an undesirable form of social determinism? Can groups learn to live together as individuals if their access to opportunity is defined along racial lines?
There are compelling philosophical reasons to be skeptical of racial generalizations. A loose use of "race" denies the obvious fact that individual differences are vastly greater than group differences, however the group is defined.
Apart from his odd defense of affirmative action, Patterson extends his hatred of racial categories to whoever tries to measure the traits of people who classify themselves as white or black. He showers contempt on the authors of "The Bell Curve," Richard Herrnstein and Charles Murray, despite the fact that not only do their arguments in no way conform to what he imputes to them, but their emphasis on individual autonomy is entirely consistent with his own views.
Patterson's position is this: Even though a gap exists between the average I.Q. of Afro- and Euro-Americans, that difference arises wholly from the culture and is diminishing. Herrnstein and Murray are at pains to make much the same point. Whether genes explain differences in intelligence scores is a matter on which, as they put it, they "are resolutely agnostic." Nevertheless, in an irritating display of unreasonable ill temper, Patterson calls Murray an "academic racist," and links him unfairly with Leonard Jeffries.
The great paradox in this book, and the reason I have taken up his unfair criticism of "The Bell Curve," is that Patterson's central position -- that racial integration pursued so as to make each individual a competent moral person, evaluated by others for what he or she has accomplished -- is irrelevant to group differences in intelligence (or hair color, or life expectancy, or disease rates) however they are produced. Patterson rightly thinks that what matters is how each person is judged. How that judging is done ought not to depend -- and increasingly, in fact, does not depend -- on what group that person belongs to.
That is the core lesson of this country's long effort to create a just social system. Patterson understands this, but for reasons he does not explain, he cannot rest entirely comfortably with his own ideas.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ORDEAL OF INTEGRATION, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); WRITERS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); LITERATURE (75%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); MARRIAGE (63%); ADOLESCENTS (63%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: WILSON, JAMES Q; PATTERSON, ORLANDO (PROF)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



376 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 5; Page 12; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1758 words

HEADLINE: WINTER IN THE SNOW;
Cross-Country Central

BYLINE: By SUE HALPERN; SUE HALPERN, the author of "Migrations to Solitude" (Vintage), writes frequently about the outdoors.

 BODY:
DRIVING into the calendar-perfect village of Craftsbury Common in Vermont on a chill January day, it was not the snowy town green, or the picket fence enclosing it, or the fact that every house was painted white, that first caught my eye. These things I saw later. What I noticed was a girl, maybe 15, maybe younger, standing in front of the Craftsbury Academy, the town's well-regarded public school. She was wearing what seems to be the universal school uniform these days: baggy pants, baggy shirt, no parka. On one shoulder was slung a book bag. On the other -- and this is what got my attention -- was a pair of long, skinny cross-country skis.
"Look! I think we're here," I said to my daughter, pointing to the teen-ager. For years I had been hearing about Craftsbury, in Vermont's Northeast Kingdom -- how the snowfall there was reliable and profuse, how over 100 kilometers (60-plus miles) of groomed trails crisscrossed the town, how it had been the training site of Olympic nordic ski teams, and how skiing was as nearly as common a form of winter transportation in the town as it was in, say, Norway.
Our actual destination, the Craftsbury Outdoor Center, was two miles past the Common. I had heard about it, too: that it was one of the oldest ski touring centers in the Northeast, and that its director, John Brodhead, was one of the most delightfully fanatical cross-country skiers in the country. It was he, I had heard, who had figured out where, and how, to cut all those trails. Anyone who loves to strap on a pair of nordic skis and disappear into the landscape would understand why he wanted to.
My husband and I had decided to spend a couple of days in Craftsbury, in part to indulge in this disappearing act, but also to participate in what the Center's brochure described as a "family fun" weekend: ski touring, orienteering (being plunked in the woods with map and compass), skating and sledding for parents and children under 12. My daughter, who will turn 5 in the spring, had gotten her first pair of skis earlier in the winter, and we were looking forward to her getting her snow legs in the company of other children.
The Outdoor Center is ideal for parents with small, active children. (It is also ideal for parents of older children, and for adults without children, all of whom were also in residence on this particular weekend.) Housed at a former boarding school, accommodations are adequate and economical, not fancy or upscale. There are two main lodges -- former dormitories that have been made more lodgelike -- and three individual cabins. Rooms in the lodges, basic dormitory style, come in two sizes, small and less small, and some of the larger rooms have private baths. There is a sauna in one of the lodges, as well as a fitness room filled with rowing machines. In summer these lodges are home to rowers and aspiring rowers who come for Craftsbury's well-known sculling workshops. This is not a ski resort but a place for people who love the outdoors.
Days begin fairly early at Craftsbury. Breakfast in the communal dining room is at 8, and we were skiing before 9. We had come a day before the family weekend in order to log some miles along Craftsbury's extensive trail network, so after a lesson with a ski instructor for our daughter, my husband and I left her at our cabin with a sled and a baby sitter (easily arranged through the center) and set off.
Well, actually, we didn't set off directly -- we consulted the thermometer, noticed that although it was snowing lightly the temperature was waffling around freezing, and tried to figure out which wax to put on the bottom of our skis. Too warm a wax and our skis would be sticky and we wouldn't be able to glide, too cold and they wouldn't stick at all and we'd struggle for traction. We considered renting no-wax skis at the Outdoor Center's well-stocked and reasonably priced rental shop, but decided in the end to use our own equipment. (A mistake, probably, given the number of times we had to stop and rewax.)
Trails on the Craftsbury network are numbered, not named, and we chose Trail No. 6, a 10K run from the center to the hamlet of Craftsbury, which lies a few miles below its sister hamlet, Craftsbury Common. Though the trail was marked "most difficult" it didn't seem that way from the map, and indeed it wasn't.
 WE started in the woods, skiing quietly between the cedars, but the trail soon descended to the Black River, which we hugged for miles as it snaked through the bottom land. Then we gained some altitude, traversing more than one farmer's field, with panoramic views of the rippling Vermont hills and the mountains to which they lead. It was like footpath touring in England, only this was America, where the idea of property rights, and "no trespassing" are sacrosanct. This, in part, is what sets Craftsbury apart. More than 70 landowners participate, allowing trails to cut across their property.
It was still early in the day when we reached the end of Trail No. 6, but the snow had turned nearly to rain, and we were soaked and grateful to step out of our skis and into the warmth of the decidedly untouristy Craftsbury store. There we found freshly made doughnuts, cold cider and a table in the back. We cooled down, dried off, consulted the map, considered calling to be picked up by the Outdoor Center's shuttle bus, but decided to push on to Craftsbury Common, only two uphill miles away. The rain had turned back to snow.
We missed lunch at the Outdoor Center that day, but not dinner: three kinds of enchilada, a salad bar, fresh hot bread, peach cobbler. Breakfast the next day was pancakes, eggs, granola, muffins. The food, which is served buffet-style, is plentiful and healthy. (Beer and wine are available at the gift shop.) You work up an appetite skiing over dale and up hill, and the meals at the Outdoor Center more than satisfy it.
Still, if you want a break from the noise and bonhomie of the center's mess hall, there are other options, among them the Craftsbury Inn, in Craftsbury Village, and the Inn on the Common. But frankly, after a few hushed nouvelle courses at the latter, we were eager to return to the rough-and-tumble, chicken-and-biscuits atmosphere of the Outdoor Center.
Family fun began officially the next morning. Outside the ski rental building, John Brodhead led a group of children and their parents in some stretching exercises, then the kids split up for about a half hour of instruction. Though they were of varying levels and ages, it didn't seem to matter. My daughter was paired with some older boys who had never skied, and they all had a good time mastering the training hill.
When we reconvened, the children voted for a ski tour, so off we went, into the woods, on a loop that posed a few -- but only a few -- challenges to young skiers. John had them looking at animal tracks as well as ski tracks, and before long all of them had completed the milelong loop successfully. Later that day there was a snowshoe hike -- the center maintains a number of separate trails for snowshoers and also supplies the equipment -- and after dinner, a skating party. Because the skating pond is next to the warming hut, we could skate, get warm, drink cocoa, skate, look for constellations, get warm. There was a bonfire on the far side of the pond, and marshmallows, which turn out to be difficult to roast with mittens on, but not impossible.
Ski orienteering was on the schedule for the next morning, and though I worried about how children who could not read a book, let alone a map, would fare, the activity turned out to be a map-and-compass exercise for the older children and a scavenger hunt for the younger ones. The little ones were so excited to be hunting for the pink flags John had planted throughout the trail system that they barely noticed they were kicking and gliding across the snow, skiing forcefully and gracefully. Our weekend ended with a ski race, sponsored by the local Bill Koch League, a kind of Little League for cross-country skiing. As a payback to the community, the Outdoor Center plays host to the league, which is run by parents to encourage children to have fun on skis. The race, at least for the under-7 set, was not about going fast but about completion: everyone who made it around the .5K course was a winner. And they all did finish, even my daughter, who was the youngest, the smallest and the only one without ski poles. As she came into the home stretch, one of the boys she had been skiing with for the past couple of days saw her and urged her on. Others took up the cry, and soon everyone, young and old, was pulling for her. Her pace picked up, and she slid easily across the finish line.
 
Ski touring en famille
 
Getting There
The Craftsbury Outdoor Center, (800) 729-7751) is one and a half hours from Burlington and two from Montreal and is accessible via Vermont Route 14. The ski season goes from mid-December to mid-March.
 
Being There
Accommodations are least expensive at midweek, when they start at $113 a night for a double room with a shared bath that includes meals and trail passes. Additional adult guests in the same room cost $52 a night midweek and $57 on the weekend, while children under 6 are free and those between 6 and 12 pay half price. The most expensive accommodations are the three cottages, which cost $199 at midweek and $220 on the weekend, with the same surcharges for more than two people. A family fun weekend for a family of four is likely to cost between $250 and $450.
Ski rental: Skis, boots and poles are $10 a day. An hour and a half's private lesson is $30; a lesson for three to eight people is $60 a group.
Family Fun events: The center runs two family events: the family fun weekend, on Martin Luther King Jr. weekend, and family fun week, in February, during school vacation. It also runs ski camps for children and adults, and race weekends.
 
Dining Out
The Craftsbury Inn, (802) 586-2848, in Craftsbury Village, is a pleasant, family-run establishment that serves such entrees as poached salmon and chicken dijon. Dinner for two, without wine, is about $40.
The Inn on the Common, on Main Street in Craftsbury Common, (802) 586-9619, with a single 7:30 sitting, an extensive wine list, leg of Vermont rabbit on the menu and postdinner chocolates in the drawing room, is a more formal, candlelit place. Dinner only, and reservations are required. Dinner for two, without wine, is $70 plus 15 percent service charge and a 9 percent meal tax.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A cross-country skier glides past a farmhouse in Craftsbury, in northern Vermont. (Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)(pg. 12); The rough-and-tumble mess hall of the Craftsbury Outdoor Center. The Craftsbury Inn. (Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)(pg. 26)
 
Map of Vermont showing the location of Montpelier. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (94%); 

CITY: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VERMONT, USA (94%); MONTPELIER, VT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SKIING (91%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ADOLESCENTS (79%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (76%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (76%); WINTER OLYMPICS (66%); FAMILY (66%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



377 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 131; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: The Two Hollywoods;
Peace Is Hell

BYLINE: By Fareed Zakaria

 BODY:
Foreign-policy wonks in Washington are said to be hopelessly at sea in today's brave new world. They supposedly pine for the good old days of the cold war with its Soviet threat, nuclear danger, proxy wars and perpetual arms-control meetings. (Be still my heart!) But another town is struggling with this balmy time of peace as much as Washington -- Hollywood. Even though movie stars held cocktail parties for nuclear disarmament, the cold war was good for their profession. It nourished that distinctive American genre, the action-and-adventure movie.
 The cold war gave us genuine international tension. The stuff of its movies -- nuclear threats, blackmail, espionage and terrorism -- had a gripping, dangerous feel. The forces of the West were represented perfectly by James Bond -- elegant, inventive, hedonistic and always successful. But now, without an all-encompassing moral, political and strategic struggle, Hollywood has to stretch to find dangers that seem real enough, villains who seem evil enough and stakes that seem high enough. 
 To be sure, it is easy to overplay the cinema's interest in the Red menace. Perhaps because it was not a hot war, perhaps because of Hollywood's political culture, the cold war never worked as well on film as did World War II. There were, of course, movies with evil Communists, like "Funeral in Berlin," "Red Dawn" and "The Hunt for Red October." Still, the Soviets never achieved the supervillain status of the Nazis. In two great cold-war series they were not the villains at all. In Bond movies, evil was usually represented by an international crime cartel led by a weird plutocrat, and in John le Carre movies the Western agents were always equally flawed. "The Spy Who Came in From the Cold" is more anti-cold war than anti-Communist. But at least the moviegoer could be against something important.
 Action movies thrive on national enemies. They quickly identify the bad guys, usually by skin color, accent or uniform. Our two most successful villains, American Indians and Nazis, have been quite distinctive in dress and in language. Both were Hollywood's staple for decades after World War II and almost a century after the last Indian wars. When the makers of "Die Hard" wanted to create an intelligent, brutal criminal, they had Alan Rickman, an English actor, adopt a vaguely Germanic accent. His lieutenant was a blond Teutonic-looking guy named Karl. When things got really nasty they would actually speak to one another in German. But national enemies are now an endangered species, victims of three of the most powerful forces sweeping the world today -- peace, political correctness and globalization.
 Washington has no truly threatening great power foes, a situation that Hollywood has been trying to rectify since the late 1980's. First, the Japanese seemed a good bet, and "Black Rain" and Michael Crichton's "Rising Sun" could have been the beginning of a new wave. But while many in America -- including movie makers and policy wonks -- were willing to demonize Japan, Tokyo's economy fizzled out. Today it almost seems bad sportsmanship to mention the Japanese threat. Then came drug dealers, the featured attraction in the first post-cold-war Bond movie, "License to Kill." But they're not really a national group. Irish nationalists, as in "Patriot Games," and Kazakh terrorists, as in "Air Force One," are more persuasive. National liberation movements have that old-time passion. But the Irish, Kazakhs, Azeris and Serbs can work for a movie or two, not as set-piece villains in a continuing drama. They're local bad guys, not threats to world (or American) peace. When was the last Azeri bombing in New York?
 It's also hard to create national villains without national stereotypes -- a big no-no in the current multicultural atmosphere. Not only can American Indians no longer be stereotyped, they can barely be mentioned. A Princeton, N.J., mother says that her children, at a private school, are now taught to play "Cowboys and Pirates." (I wonder what the teacher would say if one of those bright, young things asked how Nevada ranchers could have fought Mediterranean sailors?) For a while it seemed acceptable to portray Arabs as fanatical and villainous, hijacking planes while praying to Allah. But people began to notice this double standard. Reviewing the Arnold Schwarzenegger film "True Lies," David Denby wrote in New York magazine: "The terrorists are treated contemptuously as a bunch of losers -- as fuzz-faced buffoons, shouting gibberish at one another. Shot, stabbed, torched, blown up, the Arabs, or whatever they are, drop like flies." Oh, well, back to the drawing board.
 And then there is globalization. Until recently, Hollywood earned most of its money from domestic audiences; foreign business was gravy. Today, entertainment is America's largest export industry. A first-class blockbuster can expect to make half its revenues from abroad. In this context, globalization has had a particularly dismal effect on movie making, writes David Kipen in The World Policy Journal. First, there is little need for dialogue: "Why bother writing good lines if they'll only be mistranslated?" Second, what takes the place of good writing is violence -- the Esperanto of the modern media world. An explosion means exactly the same thing in Taipei as it does in Dubuque. So do 10.
 Globalization also requires that characters perceived as bad guys in America must also be considered bad guys in East Asia. That's why the Chinese are problematic candidates for villainy. Not that the entertainment industry is averse to testing the waters with the upcoming Martin Scorsese movie "Kundun"; "Seven Years in Tibet"; "Red Corner" (a Midnight Express set in China), and the next James Bond movie. But while many people in East Asia worry about the rise of Chinese power, the Chinese do not have the historical reputation for aggression that the Japanese do. Besides, there are 1.2 billion potential Chinese movie buffs to think about. Dealing with the China problem highlights a tension between two powerful strains not limited to Hollywood: superficial moralizing and rapacious moneymaking.
 In the end, however, the movies have a solution. Like so much of fiction and nonfiction today, film has moved to the realm of the personal. Memoirs, autobiographies and psychobabble are in; history and politics are out. Villains are not villainous because they are Nazis or American Indians or are devoted to any larger cause. They are bad individuals, acting for entirely personal reasons. The terrorist in "The Peacemaker" is motivated not by ideological concerns but by narrow, solipsistic ones -- he is avenging the murder of his wife and child.
 The emphasis on the personal is, in a way, perfect for modern movie making because it allows for violence. First we must establish that the villain is bad, so we watch him blow up innocent people for 20 minutes. Then, in the next hour, we watch the good guys battle him. This need for violence to establish character spins out of control in a movie like "Face/Off," in which the good guy (John Travolta) and the bad guy (Nicolas Cage) change faces, so the director, John Woo, keeps reminding us which one to hate by having him kill a few dozen strangers. All of which is necessary to keep the audience on the right side. The key to a successful action movie today is righteous violence. Audiences cannot simply partake in gruesome barbarism; they must feel redeemed by it.
 But does this make for great cinema? "The Guns of Navarone," one of the most gripping adventure movies ever made, has very little violence. The moral and political context gives the movie its chilling tension. So it was with most of the best movies of this genre from the 1940's to the early 80's. Until the great global drama petered out.
 "The end of history will be a very sad time," wrote Francis Fukuyama in the concluding paragraph of his famous essay. "The willingness to risk one's life for a purely abstract goal, the worldwide ideological struggle that called forth daring, courage, imagination and idealism, will be replaced by economic calculation, the endless solving of technical problems, environmental concerns and the satisfaction of sophisticated consumer demands." In his book, "The End of History and the Last Man," Fukuyama asks whether human beings, increasingly bored by the banality of life, will yearn again for some larger meaning and thus be "ready to drag the world back into history with all its wars, injustice and revolution." And also its movies -- great, spine-tingling action movies.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available COLD WAR (92%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); FILM (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); EXTORTION (77%); ESPIONAGE (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); TERRORISM (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



378 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 76; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2454 words

HEADLINE: The Two Hollywoods;
The End Of the Middle

BYLINE: By Neal Gabler

 BODY:
One thing about Hollywood: it is always in the throes of a revolution. This year's revolution erupted last February when the Academy Award nominations were announced and only one big studio picture, "Jerry Maguire," was among the five anointed for Best Picture. The rest, including the eventual winner, "The English Patient," were what those in the business call "indie" productions, which is to say that they were distributed and in many cases financed by small independent companies operating on the periphery of the Hollywood plantation.
 Though the big box-office breadwinners are still oversize studio pictures, the indies' nominations sent shock waves through the industry. To the media they meant that the Ewoks had taken down Jabba the Hutt, while in Hollywood, power brokers were beating their breasts in contrition, confessing what everyone else already knew: that the creative balance of power had shifted from the major studios making "Twister," "Mission: Impossible" and "Independence Day" to the outsiders making "Shine," "Sling Blade" and "Trainspotting." 
 In truth, however, it wasn't quite as neat as that. Many of the so-called independents were actually subsidiaries of the major studios. They may have operated with a large degree of freedom, allowed to "green light" pictures whose budgets fell below a certain threshold, but their profits ultimately wound up in studio coffers. Increasingly, then, the independents were on the Hollywood plantation; they just weren't living in the master's house.
 And yet the very reason the studios created subdivisions like Fox Searchlight and Sony Pictures Classics or acquired indie companies like New Line and Gramercy was that they realized there was a significant difference between the kinds of pictures the studio apparatus was producing and those being delivered by the independents. And that was why the vigor of independent film making mattered. It wasn't economics that was at stake; it was esthetics.
 It is possible that Hollywood has never been as esthetically divided as it is now. As I write, the films reaping the critical hosannas are "Boogie Nights," "The Ice Storm," "Telling Lies in America" and "The Full Monty," all of which have been released by indies and all of which are smallish pictures that appeal to audiences seeking intellectual, emotional or esthetic stimulation. Meanwhile, the films reaping the top grosses include "I Know What You Did Last Summer," "The Devil's Advocate," "Kiss the Girls" and "The Peacemaker," all of which have been released by major studios and all of which appeal to audiences interested in action and cheap thrills. A film like Warner Brothers's "L.A. Confidential," a moody, modern noir that manages to combine intelligence with action, is now the rare exception.
 In other arts, this sort of division isn't unusual. By the 19th century, cultural aristocrats had their symphonies, their genteel novels, their Shakespeare and drawing-room comedies. The majority had their band music, their dime novels and pornography, their Shakespeare (the action without the language) and their melodramas.
 But almost from the start the movies have been different. Though they began early this century as an urban, working-class entertainment, they rapidly attracted the middle class and even, begrudgingly, members of the cultural elite. Elsewhere things may have been bifurcated, but in the movies there were essentially no high or low ends, just one large, gratifying middle, where you could find the comedies of Frank Capra, Warner Brothers gangster dramas, Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers musicals and the westerns of John Ford.
 Today the great moviegoing public that sustained the middle is pretty much gone, though it has actually been endangered for decades. From 78.2 million weekly admissions in 1946, or over four billion for the year, the number of viewers has steadily and precipitously declined all the way down to 58 million by 1950, 25.1 million by 1960, to a low of 15.8 million in 1971. At the same time, the percentage of recreational dollars spent on the movies was taking a similar nose dive.
 Why did people suddenly stop going to the movies? The advent of television had a great deal to do with it, as did suburbanization and the patterns of recreation that accompanied it. Some people even blamed the declining quality of movies as the studio system fractured. But whatever the causes, the medium no longer bound the entire country together the way it had from the 20's through the 40's.
 For decades Hollywood tried to lure audiences back, at first with wider screens and 3-D and then with pictures like "Bonnie and Clyde" and "The Godfather" that borrowed heavily from the techniques of foreign films. But the industry was just treading water until the release of "Jaws" in 1975. "Jaws" was a one-movie revolution. In economic terms alone, it made so much money so rapidly -- a $260 million domestic gross -- that it invented the whole notion of the blockbuster. Even after adjusting for inflation, 9 of the 25 top-grossing films domestically of all time are post-"Jaws," despite the fact that movie attendance was a fraction of what it had been in the 20's, 30's and 40's.
 But it wasn't just money. "Jaws" also had an effect on the very nature of American films. No one would seriously argue that the bulk of movies before "Jaws" were masterpieces of sophistication or nuance, but even so those films were largely dependent on plot and character. Whatever the merits of "Jaws," the film helped tip the American esthetic from one that was essentially plot- and character-driven to one that is sensation-driven. Ever since, bigger, faster, louder has been the Hollywood mantra -- the only way to make the gigabucks.
 Yet the most important influence of "Jaws" may be something much subtler: the way it altered the traditional relationship between viewer and film. Movies had certainly arrived with ballyhoo before, but the viewing of the film itself was what the critic Robert Warshow once described as an immediate experience," a person responding to the screen in front of him.
 "Jaws" helped change that. The unprecedented media attention forced audiences into a less immediate posture. They inescapably found themselves responding not only to the film in front of them but also to the phenomenon of the film around them: its marketing, its media coverage, its success, its hype. In fact, the film itself became only one component of the movie experience, which was now not even an esthetic experience at all but some kind of vast new cultural happening.
 When movies are happenings though, their costs soar. Big-budget blockbusters are the only movies that give a studio real hope of returning $100 million grosses, the industry's new magic number, because they are the only ones that can generate enough excitement in the other media. They are also the only movies that can hope to compete against other blockbusters. With so much at stake, studios had to up the marketing budgets as well, so that both production and advertising costs began soaring exponentially, creating an endless cycle of ever-larger budgets and ever-larger marketing expenses -- a game of can-you-top-this that shows no signs of abating.
 And yet, perverse as it is, the system makes economic sense. Though the size of a picture's budget obviously doesn't guarantee a large audience, virtually every film that has had a megagross has also had a megabudget. Even the films that bomb here, like "Daylight" or "Waterworld," are more likely to be profitable abroad because they have lavish production values to display.
 Still, there is the matter of whom these movies are being made for. In the past, the industry didn't pay much attention to its audience profile. With a constituency nearly as large as the population itself, the old Hollywood always thought in terms of the audience, never an audience. It always tried to make films that appealed to the largest possible number of viewers, which is why movies were the art of the middle.
 By the 70's, however, it was clear the audience did not exist anymore. Instead, as admissions had plunged through the 50's and 60's, the audience realigned itself so that it was no longer a cross section of the country. More specifically, the moviegoers who had deserted film were primarily those moviegoers over 40. A result was that the movies became a medium for the young.
 Of all the factors affecting motion pictures, the age of the audience is probably the most salient. According to a survey conducted by Opinion Research Corporation for the Motion Picture Association of America last year, 67 percent of the audience is under 40, even though they represent just 50 percent of the population. What's more, 50 percent of the audience is between 12 and 29 years old, though they are now only 30 percent of the population. And even these figures understate the case, because young moviegoers go to the movies far more frequently than older ones: 26 percent of those 18 and older went once an month, compared with 48 percent of those between 12 and 17.
 So while the cultural divide in other media fell between high and low, the cultural divide in movies falls between old and young. The effect, however, turns out to look very much like that of high-low, in large part because the rapid turnover of popular culture has created widely divergent cultural experiences and tastes between generations. The parents of today's young moviegoers were weaned on old movies, "Leave It to Beaver," the Beatles and J. D. Salinger. Their children have grown up on "Sesame Street," MTV, Guns 'n' Roses and the "Star Wars" trilogy, so it's no wonder they want movies that pack a sensory overload. To them, movies are meant to be "roller-coaster rides" that shake you from your lethargy.
 The new global markets, which now account for roughly half of a studio film's grosses, only reinforce the new esthetic. Foreign audiences don't want small, sensitive, serious pictures from America. They can get those from their own national film industries. What no other country but America can produce are big, star-studded, special-effects-filled extravaganzas. These are some of our most popular exports because they speak the universal language of sensation.
 Today studios aren't even capable of making small films. Last year, according to the M.P.A.A., the average cost of a studio production was $39.8 million, up 325 percent since 1980, with an additional $17.2 million on average devoted to advertising, up 386 percent since 1980. Yet the alternative, to abjure stars and reduce the marketing campaign, would sentence a studio film to oblivion under the trampling herd of blockbusters.
 And that is where the independents come in. If the major studios have lost the nerve and knack for making small pictures, there are still executives who know how to produce them and distributors who know how to market them. By proving that there were profits to be made from films that were smaller, slower, softer -- and cheaper -- companies like Miramax have inspired an indie wave that has yet to crest. There are now dozens of indie companies, with half a dozen more reportedly in the offing -- everything from the studio-owned boutiques to Stratosphere Entertainment, a brand-new distributor started by financier Carl Icahn.
 Obviously, small films targeted at older audiences are not going to capture the grosses of "The Lost World: Jurassic Park" or "Men in Black." Even "The English Patient," for all its awards, grossed only $78.6 million. But if you release enough pictures, make them cheaply enough and then market them wisely, the singles can add up to runs -- which is one reason indies are so hot now. Last year Miramax released 39 films with a total domestic gross of $248 million, just about the gross of "Men in Black" alone, but nothing to sniff at either.
 For the older audience that had deserted the movies, the rise of the independents must seem like a godsend. At long last, these folks are getting their kinds of pictures again. But the independent surge has had another effect that bodes less well for the health of American movies. While no one was watching, the independents have been segregating audiences. There are now small films for older arty audiences and big films for younger action-oriented ones, which puts the movies exactly where literature, music, dance and art are: split.
 Even more important, the segregated audience has allowed film makers to segregate themselves, too. Not so long ago, for directors to succeed in Hollywood, they had to appeal to those who wanted excitement and those who purported to want something more. The great film makers of the past, from Howard Hawks to Alfred Hitchcock to Spielberg himself -- before he separated his serious film making ("Schindler's List") from his mindless film making ("The Lost World") -- all felt compelled to provide intelligent entertainment when that wasn't an oxymoron.
 It is only now, when our movies are either made for teen-agers or for adults, that we have come to realize how wonderful that balance between intelligence and fun, between art and entertainment, was. Art fructified entertainment and prevented it from devolving into a series of increasingly jangled and incoherent narratives that also yield instantly to pleasure," as the critic David Denby has described recent blockbusters. By the same token, entertainment fructified art and prevented it from becoming dull and desiccated. It now seems that it wasn't, as critics used to grouse, the lowest common denominator to which our movies were once pitched, but the highest.
 Now that the independents have relieved their film makers of the obligation to reach a large audience and studios have relieved theirs of the obligation to make intelligently crafted pictures, the split between art and entertainment is larger than ever and, one fears, never the twain shall meet. As a result, we tend to get pictures that are either silly or pretentious, bloody or bloodless, sensational or soporific, but seldom do we get pictures that give us both the sensory and intellectual pleasures that our best films, and even our less-than-best films, so often provided.
 As it stands, unless more film makers and studios are willing to buck the trend and try once again to reconcile small pleasures with big, intelligence with sensation, older audiences with younger, the movies will be providing half of something for each but not a satisfying whole for all. Surely the film industry can survive this way. But what would be truly, and sadly, revolutionary is for the medium that once united us all now to divide us.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Art and entertainment for everyone, 1939.; The last hope for the middle, 1972.; A one-movie revolution, 1975.; The indie surge begins, 1989.; Domestic bomb, foreign success, 1995.; A hit for the arty audience, 1997.; A hit for the masses, 1997.(Photographs from Hershenson-Allen Archive, except "Sex, Lies . . ." from Miramax)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

COMPANY: WARNER BROTHERS LICENSING (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); FILM (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



379 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 6; Page 101; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2481 words

HEADLINE: The Two Hollywoods;
Meeting Halfway

BYLINE: By Janet Maslin

 BODY:
The best movie moment of recent months didn't require much: just a few men standing on a welfare line, doing their damnedest to resist a disco beat. But this scene from the British comedy "The Full Monty" worked as a great sight gag, summed up the film's graceful way of fusing humor with poignancy and showed how one sharp, humane image could count for so much more than lavish overkill. Most of all, it bridged the chasm between independent cinema and Hollywood product by telling a high-concept comic story with loads of heart. Built on nothing but ingenuity and talent, it had no set place on the film-making spectrum between spectacle and soul, all-star and no-name, big and small. It was a moment that could work anywhere.
 Scenes like this are the building blocks for a viable film future, one that recognizes an increasingly inescapable precept: cross over or die. Two brands of bankruptcy -- fiscal for small films and distributors, creative for too many big ones -- give that idea unavoidable urgency right now. Crossover thinking supersedes the old-style conventional wisdom, which held that Hollywood was the place that built the Titanic (quite literally this Christmas). Studios made outlandishly big spectacles that depended on one narrative arc, three acts and the kind of formulaic elements that might not admit a free thoughtin all two hours. 
 Meanwhile, enterprising independent cinema was the iceberg on which the studios' big, lumbering product ran aground. It was the novelty act, the scrappy underdog, the reproach to all things slick, bogus and forced. In fact, these two Hollywoods now overlap constantly, as symbiotic in practice as they are theoretically opposed.
 "Did he recommend another movie where everybody ends up in a storm sewer shooting each other?" asks a character in Don DeLillo's new novel, "Underworld," nicely satirizing the stereotypical Hollywood no-brainer. The indie David to such a Goliath is thought of as more real and sensitive, even if that means two 20-something people in a room talking their relationship to death. But the biggest surprises on screen rarely come from either of these camps. They come from the middle and sneak into the mainstream. The best recent hybrids have been studio films like "Jerry Maguire" or "The People vs. Larry Flynt" or "L.A. Confidential," in which grand ambition, artful trappings and independence of spirit are perfectly intertwined. These films seduce the eye with the costly Hollywood blandishments that elude independents. But they never let the mind know exactly what to expect.
 Hybrids open new avenues in what might otherwise be a strictly bifurcated movie world. They energize the independent sphere, which has cut back markedly on adolescent navel-gazing; they also make studio films seek greater idiosyncrasy than the kind that comes from casting Dennis Hopper in a crazed villain's role. Crossover is the name of the game that, in theory at least, everybody can now win. The dividing lines are so fully blurred that Hollywood can freely borrow imagination (and, in the case of a "Con Air," lift an entire cast) from the independent realm. And smaller films can attract increasingly high-power-ed talent excited by the prospect of taking risks, even the risk that only a fraction of the audience will see exciting work done in this arena.
 I remember a particular moment when this became apparent: a lunch at the 1994 Cannes Film Festival just before "Pulp Fiction" was unleashed on the world. John Travolta and Bruce Willis traded war stories about the highs and lows of their Hollywood careers, including the disappointment of "Moment by Moment" and the dumbing down of the "Look Who's Talking" films. Still, it had suddenly dawned on even stars of this wattage that there was now an alternative to being either up or down on the Hollywood food chain. Now there was sideways. A two-way bridge had been opened between mainstream and alternative work. After this, nothing would be quite the same.
 To be sure, Hollywood spends plenty of time on automatic pilot. It still churns out formula films that are dead on arrival, films that reveal in their first 5 minutes that the remaining 115 will contain not a single spark. The studios also shoot themselves in the figurative foot with such aggressive and unimaginative marketing that these movies land with a built-in sense of deja vu. But they also, at their best, spin the most beautiful daydreams, creating a coveted gloss and Zeitgeist energy that cannot be matched in the world of the shoestring budget. Those things, and the importance of the movie star as a form of narrative shorthand -- as a person so vivid that his or her mere presence explains half of what an audience needs to know about a character -- are too good to change.
 The independent world is different, with its own acting royalty (Harvey Keitel, Julianne Moore, Samuel L. Jackson, Steve Buscemi) and its own conventions. It can no longer be mistaken for a farm team for the majors, even though directors who make electrifying first impressions are still seduced and subsumed by the Hollywood payday. (Lee Tamahori, who made the small, much-admired "Once Were Warriors," typically moved on to bigger, if not better, pastures with "Mulholland Falls" and "The Edge.") But independent talents have more reason than ever to keep their distance from such temptations. When a Hollywood film can fly in and out of public consciousness in a single weekend, there's added incentive for film makers to try the smaller, freer effort that needn't prove itself instantly and may stand a chance of sticking around. All it takes is the daring to realize that the great untested midrange of movie making is where a workable future lies.
The film world's opposite extremes are long established, but they did not in the past exist so piquantly side by side. A generation ago, the hot new film makers who personified creative independence worked in a more marginalized atmosphere. Directors like Martin Scorsese, Francis Ford Coppola and Jonathan Demme, along with Robert Altman and Woody Allen (whose methods make them the two most functionally independent film makers in America), shared an uneasy relationship with Hollywood. No wonder: Independence had renegade roots it could trace to Ed Wood, Roger Corman and the fringes of B-movie making. ("Easy Rider," 1969, was both indie and B.) Thus the nascent independent cinema had a whiff of rebellion -- economic, cultural and sometimes political -- that the big guns wouldn't often touch. Even high-profile studio films that share this audacity, like "Chinatown" or "Shampoo" or "Midnight Cowboy," have the feeling of independent forerunners in retrospect.
 But film making with an independent spirit, even when blessed with widespread acceptance as well as studio backing, remained largely subsidiary to Hollywood's main events, which were sinking ocean liners and torching office towers. Classics like "Badlands" and "Taxi Driver" and "Nashville" (a Newsweek cover at the same time "Jaws" hit the cover of Time) struggled for their toehold within the still-thriving mainstream. Epic-scale movie making sustained its hold over the audience's imagination and had not yet been sapped by the demands of home video and lowest-common-denominator worldwide marketing. Blockbuster frenzy, with all its megajolts, was only beginning. In the just-post-"French Connection" era, the car chase still seemed a reasonably novel idea.
 A new wave of American experimentation was on a spectacular rise, but it had not yet fully found its niche. That niche existed, but it was already occupied: by a thriving foreign cinema that brought American audiences art films reaching well beyond Hollywood's usual bounds. Viewers would turn here for the same edge of idiosyncrasy that today's best independents offer. "The indie of my childhood was 'La Strada,"' a friend of mine says.
 But foreign films began to hit their own qualitative slump. And by the mid-1980's they had left behind an art-house vacuum. The time was ripe: along came a new breed of American films to fill that gap. Some of these, personifying the early Sundance spirit at its most unrelievedly earnest, were talky and becalmed in ways that posed no threat to the studios' lavish comic-book adaptations. But this was also the time when Spike Lee, Joel and Ethan Coen, Steven Soderbergh and others began to astonish audiences, and when the Miramax juggernaut began building a much better marketing mousetrap. Suddenly this new talent had a place to flourish and a following eager to embrace alternative style.
 The work of these film makers is as different as "Barton Fink" and "Do the Right Thing," but certain ground rules apply. Indies are almost by definition less frivolous than their Hollywood counterparts, since Hollywood still manufactures giddy escapism better than anyone else can. ("Flirting With Disaster," another superb example of the crossover species, managed to combine studio-worthy whimsy with a well-developed dark side.) And beyond the occasional worrywart working in Hollywood, i.e. Albert Brooks, indies have cornered the market on solipsistic small talk. For instance, they have transposed the long, chatty (and cheap) car trip to a variety of other settings, like the convenience store of Kevin Smith's now-legendary "Clerks." Meanwhile, Hollywood maintains exclusive rights to the classic sign of screenwriters' panic, the scene that has everybody on the bus, in the restaurant or in the rest room suddenly chime in helpful advice about the main characters' love lives.
In recent years, when Hollywood's finest hour could be represented by "Schindler's List" while the great indie Oscar sweep was touched off by "The English Patient," it has become clear that the best films mean the best of both worlds. In gravity, scale and unlikely beauty, these two brooding films have much in common anyhow. Indeed, it was Parallel Universe Night at the 1996 Academy Awards show as the traditionally prize-winning type of performance came from Geoffrey Rush of "Shine," a nominal independent no more avant-garde than "Forrest Gump." Neither was "Sling Blade," another supposed left-field winner. Meanwhile, Tom Cruise did the best work of his career in "Jerry Maguire," which was as independent-minded as the year's other contenders but had the onus of a Hollywood pedigree. And it looked as if a full reversal had occurred. Independents were regarded as A-list movies. And the studios had forfeited supremacy, thanks to all those dopey neo-B's.
 The past year has been so creatively and fiscally disastrous that both sides must feel ready for retooling. Wave after wave of Hollywood lemmings hit the beach each Friday, vainly confident in their ability to draw viewers despite insane odds. (I write this in a week when two fine, original studio-distributed films, "Gattaca" and "Fairy Tale: A True Story," crashed and burned instantly on arrival. This is not even unusual.) Meanwhile, the independents have created their own glut, to the point where well-made Sundance films without the crossover clout of a "Big Night" or a "Welcome to the Dollhouse" may not get beyond the festival circuit.
 Yet the middle ground remains more of a no man's land than it needs to be. Experiments like "Copland," a little film full of big talent, or even "U-turn," Oliver Stone's wild-eyed answer to "Red Rock West," are still rarer than buddy shoot-'em-ups or comedies played in drag. Hollywood's reason for this used to be the celebrity insurance policy, even though it has grown alarmingly easy for the star vehicle to run out of gas. On the indie side, it can indeed be difficult for offbeat, diffident talents to flourish when working on a grander scale. Jim Jarmusch, Hal Hartley and Richard Linklater have done their best work drawing on little more than supremely deadpan acting and bone-dry humor. Unsettling, analytic film makers like Atom Egoyan ("The Sweet Hereafter") and Todd Haines ("Safe") make visually ambitious films with no need for compromise with audience expectations.
 Though every "Men in Black" buys more time for the old system and every "One False Move" or "Chasing Amy" or "Lone Star" creates hope for an alternative one, time is in a real sense running out. An older moviegoing generation has lost much of its loyalty to the medium that stopped seriously courting its attention. Though great films are the best form of virtual reality that we may ever know, younger audiences choose films that mimic the empty maneuvers of video games. And every time an "L.A. Confidential" fails to find the success it deserves, the world makes room for another knockoff of "My Best Friend's Wedding." If either Hollywood hopes to keep its following, it had better find ways to welcome bigger thinking onto the big screen.
 But that is beginning to happen, and with increasing frequency. When an "In the Company of Men" strikes a chord, it reveals not only its own insinuating power but also the weakness of bigger, more frivolous work with similar themes.
 The worried white male has been much in evidence lately, whether achieving near-sexual release while fighting a rampaging bear as in "The Edge" or humorously coming out of the closet as in "In and Out." Only in Hollywood could you find a virginal middle-age teacher with no idea of his sexual orientation or an entire auditorium full of students who speak out in his defense. And only far outside of Hollywood -- like Indiana, where "In the Company of Men" was made -- could you find plot twists cruel enough to make one of the story's queasy male supremacists physically sick.
 But the worried, would-be male strippers of "The Full Monty" offer what both sides hope for, the film that is itself the star. No remake, no spinoff, no best seller: just a film that does something entertainingly different and then wins over its audience through wit and will power. This sleeper also became a success on its own steam, which in an atmosphere of breathless hype is something rarely allowed to happen. Ads never even had the chance to mention the film's use of ceramic gnomes, which surely would have won an extra fan or two.
 Viewers trained to endure assaults by highly intelligent space insects (and by earthly beings definitely less so) can find hope here. "The Full Monty" made its mark because it amused audiences in the most basic, well-grounded ways and broke the two-Hollywood barrierin the process. And it's a reminder of exactly where crossover success finds its future. The more chances films take, the more the verdict lies with audiences. After all, it is viewers who create hits by spotting the talent and rewarding the bright idea and the brave effort. It is viewers who can cherish and sustain independence where it must remain most vital: in the mind of the beholder.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Carlyle in "The Full Monty," 1997.; The midrange of movie making is where the future lies. Here, movies spanning four decades that might serve as reference points. Upper left: Spike Lee and Danny Aiello in "Do the Right Thing," 1989. Lower left: Lily Tomlin and Keith Carradine in "Nashville," 1975. Above: Peter Fonda in "Easy Rider," 1969. Right: Cuba Gooding Jr. and Tom Cruise in "Jerry Maguire," 1996. (from left: Universal. Paramount. Archive Photos. Columbia Tristar.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (59%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (59%); TENNESSEE, USA (59%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); 

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



380 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2481 words

HEADLINE: Now You See Them . . . and See Them Again

BYLINE: By NANCY HASS 

 BODY:
THE MESSAGE ON THE ANSWERING machine from a movie critic pal in a distant city combined cultural commentary with a cry for help: "Want to go see the Travolta movie?" he asked acidly. Click.
I felt his pain. He might as well have suggested that we see the Robert De Niro movie. Or the Dustin Hoffman film. Or the one with Robin Williams. In each case his question would have been as unanswerable as a Zen riddle: all of these actors will have at least three movies out this winter, running consecutively or simultaneously on competing screens. 
 Talk about the short list. Not since the days of the studio system have so few stars appeared in so many films in such a short time. As the number of movies released nationally has increased almost exponentially in recent years, tried-and-true audience pleasers -- the list also includes Richard Gere, Anthony Hopkins and Kevin Kline -- appear with dizzying frequency.
It's little wonder American pop culture seems wallpapered by recurring faces: the stars who crop up over and over now, unlike those in the studio era, are largely men in their 40's and 50's. The only woman who is able to carry a major studio release is Julia Roberts, but she has been in just two movies this year. Jennifer Jason Leigh and Cameron Diaz may appear more often, but they don't have that sort of clout.
Mr. Travolta is the poster boy for multiple exposure. His comeback, which started in 1994 with his turn as the lank-haired, existentialist hitman in "Pulp Fiction," has made his name a verb in Hollywood circles -- as in, "That guy is washed up unless he can Travolta in that next project." Late next spring, he will have appeared in less than a year as a persona-flipping cop ("Face/Off"), a hapless security guard ("Mad City") and a somewhat sleazy President of the United States (Mike Nichols's "Primary Colors"). Go forward a couple of months and he'll also be a crusading lawyer in Robert Redford's "A Civil Action." Go back a few months and his credits also include "Michael" and "Phenomenon."
No matter how much audiences crave Mr. Travolta and other actors on the recycled short list, their omnipresence may, like the California sun, cause long-term damage. The flood of films has already had a dampening effect on movie grosses. Seeing the same faces can't help but water down critical reaction and dilute the force of a spectacular performance. Perhaps the memory of Mr. Kline's sweet schoolteacher in "In and Out" made the haunting loneliness of his philandering WASP in "The Ice Storm" easier to watch. But having the two films released simultaneously may also have robbed "The Ice Storm" of some of its chilling force.
How long has this been going on? Well, it may seem as if a short list of stars has forever appeared in many movies each season, but that's just another Hollywood illusion. True, during the heyday of the studios, from 1930 until the early 60's, some actors churned out as many as four or five films a year (in 1932, Bette Davis appeared in 10), but in the recent past, stars have been more elusive.
 
When a Single Film Was a Symbol of Status
In fact, in the 70's and 80's, it was considered a mark of superstardom to appear in only a single film a year. With the demise of the studio system, actors were free to steer their own careers and revolted en masse against the assembly-line pace of early Hollywood.
Barbra Streisand, among the biggest box-office attractions of the era, made only nine films in the 1970's. With "The Graduate," in 1967, Dustin Hoffman became a huge star, but he rarely made more than one movie a year throughout the next decade. In 1972 he made only the Italian "Alfredo, Alfredo," and the following year only "Papillion." In 1974 he was in "Lenny," and a year later he played Carl Bernstein in "All the President's Men."
"It made a lot of sense that in the 1970's actors thought exclusivity was important," said the cultural historian and film critic Neal Gabler. "It was a backlash against the studio system. Cagney compared himself to a race horse being whipped, which is probably just how it it felt."
A fear of overexposure also led some actors to make themselves alluringly scarce. In the 1970's, the rise and fall of one star, Elliott Gould, stood as the paradigmatic cautionary tale. Like many movie actors of the 70's -- including Ms. Streisand and Mr. Hoffman -- Mr. Gould was the antithesis of a matinee idol. But even though he was quirky and ethnic, the public seemed to embrace him instantly for his naturalness and approachability.
After his debut in "The Night They Raided Minsky's" in 1968, he appeared in more than 11 movies in 5 years, including "Bob and Carol and Ted and Alice," "MASH" and "The Long Goodbye." He was on the cover of Time. By 1975, however, filmgoers seemed to tire of his idiosyncratic presence. He kept working sporadically, but his career foundered.
More recently, the embodiment of overexposure has been Antonio Banderas. After his smoldering performance in "The Mambo Kings" in 1992, the Spanish-born actor was touted as a Rudolph Valentino for the 90's. Suddenly he was everywhere. After appearing in a string of films ("Philadelphia," "The House of the Spirits," "Interview With the Vampire"), his star flamed out quietly.
But these days most movie actors, and their agents, seem far less spooked by such tales. Had younger actors like Matt Damon, Ben Affleck, Claire Danes and Ashley Judd come of age under the studio system, they would have been groomed for years in a modulated stream of ingenue roles. As it is, they seem to have burst onto the scene full-blown, in a slew of supporting and featured parts.
Even Hollywood's royalty now seems eager to appear as often as possible. "In a way, Hollywood is re-creating the studio system," said Mr. Gabler. "The same oversized, everywhere-you-look icons are emerging. The difference is that this time, it's the stars and their managers who are controlling it."
Perhaps the most stunning sign of this shift can be detected by looking at the 60-year-old Mr. Hoffman: this season will be his busiest ever. He is in "Mad City," which just opened; Barry Levinson's satire "Wag the Dog," which opens next month, and Mr. Levinson's science-fiction thriller "Sphere," set for February.
 
Big Budgets Make The Short List Shorter
For top-shelf male talent, there are certainly enough roles to choose from. In fact, Hollywood's current economics are probably the main reason so many actors have lately been showing up in numerous films at a time. The number of national releases during the fall season, a 10-week period stretching from Labor Day until the day before Thanksgiving, has risen 50 percent since 1995, to about 45.
But despite the swelling number of movies made, the short list of stars remains, in a word, short. With production and marketing budgets growing bigger as well -- the average combined budget topped $60 million this year, compared with $15 million a decade ago -- producers and distributors are more wary than ever of untested headliners.
The suggestion that such risk-averse casting could eventually erode the market by numbing the audience evokes a one-word response from most studio executives: "Phenomenon." That movie, which got lukewarm reviews, made more than $120 million, and it is widely believed that this was on the strength of Mr. Travolta's presence alone.
"These days, studios are run by a lot of people, not just one big mogul," said the media sociologist and essayist Todd Gitlin. "These people are not gambling individually; they are all scrambling in a pack to cover their backs. They aren't looking for success; they're looking for a way to explain failure. If they stick to the short list of proven stars, even if the picture bombs, they can at least say, 'Hey, we did all we could.' "
Agents and managers say there are a variety of reasons their clients are more likely these days to churn out films at a grueling pace. To begin with, predicting precisely when a movie will be released is less and less an exact science. Actors may intend to space out their films more judiciously, but distribution is not in their hands. And recently, as both summer and Christmas grosses have slacked off, more and more films are being jammed into the same September-November hot zone.
"A lot of things can go wrong," said Lois Smith, a publicity agent who represents the omnipresent Anthony Hopkins. "There are scheduling conflicts, distribution snafus and editing crises. When the actors are making their deals, they don't know what weekend the film is coming out. That's really far in the future. They have no control over it."
Still, Ms. Smith concedes, actors know what risks they run when they "finish a picture on Friday and start another Monday morning." Once an actor has two or three movies in the can, the publicity machine goes into overdrive. "The public sees someone on 82 talk shows, and it's no surprise that they get tired," she said.
Often what drives the machine is old-fashioned ego. Managers say that they warn their clients about overexposure but that the caveats have been falling on deaf ears. "Believe it or not, actors are, underneath all the hype, real people with a host of emotional, human needs," said Elaine Goldsmith-Thomas of International Creative Management, who represents stars like Ms. Roberts. "Like most of us, they are susceptible to the gratification of being wanted. Their work is their identity."
 
Star Salary Offers Too Good to Refuse
And then, of course, there's the paycheck. With producers convinced that only a few actors are guaranteed to "open" a movie -- that is, deliver the all-important first weekend grosses -- the big stars can command astonishing money. Mr. Travolta last year signed a deal that is paying him $20 million a film for "Primary Colors," "A Civil Action" and a remake of "Have Gun Will Travel."
"When Dustin Hoffman was in his real heyday, in the 70's," said Ms. Goldsmith-Thomas, "salaries for stars were $500,000 a picture. It was easy to say, hey, I think I'll sit this one out. Today the salaries are often in the $5 million to $8 million range. It's much harder to say no to that."
The danger of overexposure still lurks, most agents and managers admit, but they insist that the key is choosing the right projects. In the studio era, actors like Marilyn Monroe and Gary Cooper were steered into cookie-cutter roles that enhanced their mythic stature but often left them creatively frustrated. These days, savvy performers make sure their roles stretch their image.
Mr. Travolta, many industry experts say, has made exemplary choices. "One minute he's a janitor in 'Mad City,' the next he's the President," said Mark Gill, marketing chief for Miramax Films, the Disney-owned studio that is the largest maker of independent films. "He is taking a long-range perspective, which is what distinguishes him from other actors who may find themselves backed into a corner."
Not all actors have the opportunity to chose from choice scripts. Some, especially those on the tier below current hot shots like Brad Pitt and venerable stars like Mr. Hoffman, make obvious mistakes, grabbing at whatever comes their way. Since 1990, Bill Pullman has made about two dozen movies without gaining star status; since 1992, Samuel L. Jackson has appeared in more than 30 films, many of which have been forgettable. But even actors who choose carefully, like Sean Penn, sometimes hit a wall.
Earlier this season Mr. Penn was in "The Game" with Michael Douglas; "She's So Lovely," directed by Nick Cassevettes, and Oliver Stone's "U-Turn." "The Game," in which he had a minor role, made a decent showing; the two other films were widely disliked by critics and did miserably at the box office. "Sean is very passionate about his work, and you really have to respect that," Ms. Smith said. "But careers are very delicate things, and they can't withstand an unlimited number of unsuccessful choices."
The risks remain, but many people believe that in our celebrity-crazed culture, having three or more films released in a single season can, in fact, enhance an actor's stature. "It's a game of perception," said the director Tom DeCillo, whose successful low-budget film "Living in Oblivion" lampooned the movie business in 1995. "These stars can make, say, three movies in a season, and if two stink and one's a hit, that's the one people remember; that's the one that sticks. Whereas if they only make one movie and it's a flop, that's the end of them."
Mr. DeCillo says the craze for casting a tiny list of stars in a slew of blockbusters has even filtered down to his level of independent filmmaking. His new film, "The Real Blonde," which will be released in February by Paramount, cost $15 million, barely the catering costs of some of the big studio releases. Still, there was "enormous pressure," he said, to cast stars.
He managed to reel in some B-list players with niche appeal, including Mathew Modine, Daryl Hannah and Kathleen Turner. But the distributors still clamored for him to replace Catherine Keener, an actress who has appeared in all of his films. Mr. DeCillo refused. "There is no more acting in films anymore," he said, referring to Hollywood. "They just want one of five guys on the short list to outrun fireballs."
 
A Dilemma and an Actor Who Sees Both Sides
With the pressure to cast stars -- albeit of less magnitude -- in even smaller movies, the independent film world has developed its own short list. Harvey Keitel, Christopher Walken and Denis Leary seem to be everywhere. Mr. Leary has been on both sides of the same-old-faces dilemma: he has been appearing in a number of films (including "The Matchmaker," which opened last month, and "Wag the Dog," with Mr. De Niro and Mr. Hoffman), but he has also experienced the difficulty of raising money for independent projects that don't include A-list actors. He says the situation has become surreal.
When he and the director and producer Ted Demme decided to go to a bank instead of a studio to finance their forthcoming film "Noose," they hoped to retain creative control. But the bank officers "came to us with a list of actors," said Mr. Leary.
"These guys in their suits told us who they wanted to see in the roles," he said. "One of the characters was an Irish guy, and they decided they wanted Antonio Banderas. It was crazy."
Some months later, Mr. Leary was in Atlanta performing his one-man stage show. Finding himself with a free afternoon, he decided to go to the movies at a nearby duplex theater. The two films that were playing were "Face/Off" and "Con Air."
"I thought to myself, What if I didn't want to see a thriller?" Mr. Leary said. "What if I didn't want to see guys get blown up or blow each other away?' I happen to like Nick Cage, but what if I didn't?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: (VERY) FAMILIAR FACES Three stars from the short list of actors who seem to be everywhere on the movie screen these days are John Travolta, top row, Dustin Hoffman, middle, and Robert De Niro. Key, page 28. (Stephen Vaughan/Paramount Pictures ("Face/Off"); Francoise Duhamel/Universal Studios ("Primary Colors"); Joyce Rudolph/Miramax Films ("She's So Lovely"); Murray Close/Warner Brothers ("Mad City"); Brian Hamill/Warner Brothers ("Sphere"); P. V. Caruso/New Line Cinema ("Wag the Dog"); Sam Emerson/Miramax Films ("Copland"); Phillip Caruso/20th Century Fox ("Great Expectations"); Darren Michaels/Miramax Films ("Jackie Brown"))(pg. 1); WOMAN'S ROLE Julia Roberts, above left, and Cameron Diaz in "My Best Friend's Wedding"; Ms. Roberts in "Conspiracy Theory," below left, and Ms. Diaz in "A Life Less Ordinary." (Suzanne Tenner/Tri-Star Pictures; Andrew Cooper/Warner Brothers; Darren Michaels/20th Century Fox); STAR STAR Anthony Hopkins in "The Edge," top, and "Amistad," opening next month. (Joe Lederer/20th Century Fox; Andrew Cooper/Dreamworks)(pg. 28)
 
Photographs On Page 1: John Travolta in "Face/Off" (1), "Primary Colors" (2), "She's So Lovely" (3) and "Mad City" (4); Dustin Hoffman in "Mad City" (5), "Wag the Dog" (6) and "Sphere" (7); Robert De Niro in "Copland" (8), "Great Expectations" (9), "Jackie Brown" (10) and "Wag the Dog" (11). (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; ACTORS AND ACTRESSES ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (60%); US PRESIDENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HASS, NANCY ROBERT DE NIRO (89%); CAMERON DIAZ (78%); JULIA ROBERTS (78%); MIKE NICHOLS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



381 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 2; Page 19; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1970 words

HEADLINE: FILM VIEW;
A Master Who Confounded the Categorizers

BYLINE: By Phillip Lopate; Phillip Lopate, the author most recently of the collection of essays "Portrait of My Body," is writing a book of movie criticism.

 BODY:
"ROCCO AND HIS BROTHERS" is the kind of film you either embrace as one of the most powerful moviegoing experiences ever or dismiss as corny and overwrought. When it opened in 1960, this three-hour epic about five southern Italian brothers and their mother, who migrate to Milan driven by economic hope only to encounter tragedy and the family's destruction through the perversity of goodness, was as close as I could imagine to a novel on film.
The depth of characterization captured in the extraordinary performances of Alain Delon, Renato Salvatori and Annie Girardot, the piercing black and white photography by the great Giuseppe Rotunno, the intelligent screenwriting by Suso Cecchi d'Amico, the haunting score by Nino Rota and, above all, the warm, commanding direction of Luchino Visconti, cast a spell over me that I have never shaken off. Yet I understand when someone tells me the film left him or her cold, because "Rocco" and Visconti are not for everyone. 
 Perhaps more than any other giant of world cinema, Luchino Visconti makes critics uneasy, fitting untidily into the pat lineages of cinema history. He is usually credited as one of the founders of Italian neo-realism (along with Roberto Rossellini and Vittorio de Sica), but his love of melodrama, of grand passions spilling from overflowing canvases, turned him into a walking oxymoron of operatic realism, bisexuality and restrained extravagance.
Politically progressive, celebrating in many of his greatest films the vitality of the working class, he was also the supreme elegiast of his own aristocratic world. Accused of "voting left and living right" because of his taste for caviar and gloved servants, Visconti was a defiant individualist, a handsome man of royal, seductive presence -- and always a bit out of sync with his times, which may explain why he has gone in and out of style so often.
Now, two decades after his death, he is back in fashion. Starting on Friday, the Museum of Modern Art, with Ente Cinema and the Centro Sperimentale of the Cinematografia-Cineteca Nationale in Rome, is presenting the first complete Visconti retrospective in the United States, with restored prints of all 14 features and 4 shorts, including rarities never seen here.
Given a filmmaking career that spanned 35 years, it is a fairly tight body of work. This is partly because Visconti divided his energies between film, the theater and opera, and partly because he was a man of wealth and did not have to accept commercial assignments. Every film that bore his signature was a personal artistic project he wanted to make.
Visconti, who was born in 1906, came from one of the oldest, most noble families in Milan. His grandfather, the Duke of Modrone, had heavily supported La Scala opera house; his father was a cultivated playboy who arranged private theatricals in the palazzo, usually starring his mother, a talented musician who was the daughter of a millionaire industrialist. His parents had an open marriage, with infidelities on both sides, and they ultimately separated. Luchino adored his mother and was leery of his father, who sent him to cavalry school for discipline. The young man fell in love with horses, and spent 10 years racing and raising them.
It was not until his 30's, when he went to Paris, that he fell in with an artistic crowd. Two of his lovers, the fashion designer Coco Chanel and the photographer Horst Horst, completed his esthetic education. Chanel introduced him to the great French filmmaker Jean Renoir, who took him on as third assistant director for "A Day in the Country." From Renoir he learned not only the rudiments of filmmaking but also an appreciation for a humanistic cinema bursting with vitality, focusing on ordinary people, using natural locations and uninterrupted, deep-focus shots. The crowd around Renoir in the mid-1930's were all supporters of the social-democratic Popular Front, and Visconti, who had dabbled in Fascism, quickly moved leftward. He maintained allegiance to Italian Communism for the rest of his life.
RENOIR HAD PASSED ALONG A script based on James M. Cain's "The Postman Always Rings Twice," about a drifter and a woman who kill her husband, and Visconti decided to film this story as his first feature, "Obsession," using his own money. Visconti was drawn to hardboiled American writing; choosing such a pessimistic tale in itself constituted a veiled protest against the gung-ho state propaganda and frothy "white telephone" movies that were the staple of Mussolini's film industry.
"Obsession" (1942) has often been credited as the first neo-realist movie, because of its hardscrabble look and its sympathy for the downtrodden. But to the degree that Italian neo-realism was a specific response to a historical moment (the end of World War II) it would probably be more accurate to say that "Obsession" was pre-neo-realist. In fact, it had more in common with the sensual fatalism of French poetic realist films of Renoir, Julien Duvivier and Marcel Carne. While sharing many film-noir plot elements with the two American versions of Cain's "Postman," its pace is more leisurely, its tone more tender.
From all accounts, Visconti was an authoritative maestro from his first day of directing, and "Obsession" is as good a first feature as has ever been made. Visconti next cast about for a project that would more directly express his growing political commitment. Meanwhile he was financing the Resistance and hiding partisans in his house -- actions that eventually led to his being arrested, imprisoned and beaten.
Visconti's anti-Fascist credentials, in short, were probably better than those of any other neo-realist director by the time the war ended. He went out on a limb with his next opus, a three-hour semi-documentary, "La Terra Trema" ("The Earth Will Tremble," 1948), about impoverished Sicilian fishermen and their struggle to improve their lot.
IT DID NOT HELP THE FILM'S commercial possibilities that the fishermen spoke a dialect even average Italians could not fathom. But Visconti was not governed by box-office considerations: he wanted to make a cinematically beautiful agitprop statement, like Eisenstein's "Que Viva Mexico" or Orson Welles's "It's All True." And again he succeeded, with a moving, if at times tedious, film, magnificently photographed. The French critic Andre Bazin spoke of the "refined theatrical sense of Visconti, who makes compositions of the most down-to-earth reality as if they were scenes from an opera or a classical tragedy."
In the 50's Visconti rejuvenated Italy's national theater, with plays by Tennessee Williams and Arthur Miller, and directed legendary opera productions that featured Maria Callas, whose acting ability and stage presence he did a great deal to develop. To say that Visconti's films are operatic should not be read as disparaging. What he took from his knowledge of opera was a lyrical feeling for a story's architecture and a patient way of accumulating emotion until it burst like an aria. Visconti was unafraid of oversized emotion; his willingness to go for the big emotional payoff onscreen is brave and, for the most part, effective.
Another carryover from opera is the diva-ish presentation of the suffering woman who wreaks havoc. For instance, in the 1954 film "Senso," Alida Valli, as a highborn Venetian woman who enters into a degrading affair with a younger, narcissistic Austrian officer (played by Farley Granger), brings a hysterical conviction to the role.
"Senso" is one of Visconti's greatest achievements: a densely layered story set in the Garibaldi period of Italian nationalism, as much about the bitter lessons of history (idealism yielding to the status quo) as it is about erotic passion. Indeed, 19th-century history was a passion of Visconti's, and he became a stickler for accurate detail.
When male extras showed up for the opening opera scene wearing black top hats, Visconti blew up at his long-suffering costume designer, Piero Tosi, exclaiming that any ignoramus knew that in those days gray top hats were worn to the opera. Like Erich von Stroheim, who also splurged on details, he constructed narratives out of the dogged massing of physical fact until the past took on a three-dimensional solidity.
Nowhere does this weight of accurately observed detail more triumphantly bear fruit than in Visconti's other masterpiece set in the Risorgimento period, "The Leopard" (1963). Based on Giuseppe di Lampedusa's memorable novel, and anchored by Burt Lancaster's wonderful performance as a Sicilian nobleman who witnesses philosophically the transfer of power from his own aristocratic class to a grasping set of opportunistic parvenus, "The Leopard" is a mellow and melancholy feast.
Visconti the Marxist is fully aware of the need for the old order to disappear; Visconti the patrician conservative cannot help but imbue it with heroism and dignity. The concluding ball scene, in which the nobleman looks back with regret but accepts his class's death and his own, is a tour de force, as the camera glides from room to room, a vindication of Visconti's practice of taking his time and letting a scene settle.
It is precisely because Visconti made such long movies, however, that his work was so often mutilated by distributors and producers. The initial American release of "The Leopard" was not only egregiously dubbed but also hacked to pieces. The director, who had already seen "Obsession," "Senso" and "Rocco" suffer at the hands of censors and distribution companies, disowned the American "Leopard," crying out, "It is our destiny to be always in the hands of assassins."
"THE LEOPARD" marked a moment of equilibrium between Visconti's objective, dispassionate interest in the world and his need to express the more intense personal aspects of his character. Buoyed by his international prestige, he entered a phase that was more subjectively -- and, it must be said, self-indulgently -- expressive of his inner demons and family scars. "Sandra" begins the murky intermixing of incest, homosexuality and political perversions that continues in his overblown Teutonic phase: "Death in Venice," "The Damned" and "Ludwig." As his biographer, Gaia Servadio, observed, "He adopted realism when decadence was the accepted line, and he moved to decadence when realism was."
Because Visconti's masterworks -- "Obsession," "La Terra Trema," "Senso," "Bellissima," "White Nights," "Rocco and His Brothers" and "The Leopard" -- all belong in the early part of his filmmaking career, there is a tendency to view the later years as one long decline. Actually, Visconti finished up with two excellent pictures: the brittle, intelligent "Conversation Piece" (1974), with Lancaster and Helmut Berger, and "The Innocent" (1976), with Laura Antonelli and Giancarlo Giannini, a sensually compelling and hypnotically twisted tale based on the d'Annunzio novel.
Visconti always worshipped physical beauty. In the most barren rockpile in Sicily, he could not help but frame a stunning landscape worthy of Mantegna. Possessing all the refined taste in the world, he knew how to decorate and light a shot so that it glowed but did not crow. Still, he was as much a humanist as a mannerist, as "Rocco" amply demonstrates.
There is a funny anecdote, characteristic of the maestro at the height of his powers, when he tried to go backstage after an opera to see Callas. Prevented by the usher, Visconti yelled at him, "Don't you know who I am?" "Yes," replied the man, "and I know that you are going to die, just the same as I am." Visconti retorted: "You, yes; me, no!"
He often laughed afterward at this story. In the end, of course, the usher proved right, but not before Visconti had left a body of work whose noble vitality endures.

GRAPHIC: Photos: GRAND PASSION Alain Delon, above center, in "Rocco and His Brothers," the three-hour 1960 film directed by Luchino Visconti, right. (The Museum of Modern Art)(pg. 19); DOWN-TO-EARTH THEATER "La Terra Trema" ("The Earth Will Tremble," 1948), a semi-documentary about Sicilian fishermen's attempts to improve their lot, was Visconti's second film. (The Museum of Modern Art); HISTORY AND HYSTERIA Farley Granger and Alida Valli in Luchino Visconti's "Senso" (1954). (The Museum of Modern Art)(pg. 48)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FILM (90%); OPERA (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); FAMILY (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); FILM HISTORY (73%); MUSIC (65%); THEATER & DRAMA (63%); 

PERSON: LOPATE, PHILLIP; VISCONTI, LUCHINO (1906-76) LUCHINO VISCONTI (92%); ANNIE GIRARDOT (57%); ALAIN DELON (57%); ROBERTO ROSSELLINI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



382 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 2; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: Long Island Q&A: Melvyn Weiss;
Blazing the Way in Class-Action Law

BYLINE: By SUSAN KONIG 

 BODY:
IN the legal world, Melvyn Weiss is perhaps best known as the "dean of the plaintiff's bar," and with good reason: a senior partner in the Manhattan law firm of Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach LLP, he has been a pioneer in the field of class-action law.
Throughout his 30-year career, he won victories for plaintiffs in such landmark cases as the Drexel/Milken litigations, where he recovered nearly $1 billion for investors in Columbia Savings and Loan; the Washington Public Power Supply Systems Securities litigations, where he was one of three court-appointed lead counsels who recovered $775 million; Newman v. Stringfellow, in which he successfully represented 4,000 people exposed to toxic pollutants in Southern California and the much-publicized Exxon Valdez case. 
 Mr. Weiss is currently fighting to reform both the insurance and accounting industries, as well as to have United States tobacco companies held accountable for smoking-related illnesses. His is the largest American law firm to specialize in complex litigation, predominantly class actions, on behalf of victims of wrongdoing in securities fraud, environmental, consumer, anti-trust and mass torte (injury to persons or property) cases. The company has three offices nationwide.
After earning a bachelor's degree in accounting from Baruch College in 1957, Mr. Weiss received a J.D. from New York University Law School, where he is also a trustee. As a commissioner of the Nassau County Charter Revision Commission, he helped develop the proposal for the county's new legislative form of government. He is currently liaison counsel and a member of the executive committee -- pro bono -- for claimants in the Swiss bank litigation involving Holocaust confiscations.
Mr. Weiss lives in Oyster Bay Cove with his wife, Barbara. They have three children and five grandchildren.
Q. What made you decide to be a plaintiffs' advocate and get involved in class actions?
A. I started out as an attorney at a Wall Street law firm. It was there that I realized that victims of wrongdoing needed a counterforce against the big corporations. They needed law firms that were equal in ability and stature. So, I set out to build a firm with lawyers who were as good or better than the big firms' -- lawyers who also had the staying power to handle any case, no matter how long it lasted. That was critical, because these suits are contingency cases, meaning lawyers only get paid when they win. Some of them can last up to 10 years.
Q. How did class-action suits come about?
A. Federal class-action suits came into being in this country in 1966. Now, there are some forms of class action in parts of Canada and England, but nothing that compares to what we have in the U.S.
They came about because complex litigation has gotten so expensive that even large losses that you might think could finance an individual suit really can't. For instance, in the securities field, you may have a couple of people who've lost one million or two million dollars in a stock situation, while lots of others have lost hundreds of thousands of dollars. To level the playing field against the defense, you need the possibility of a big enough economic recovery to persuade a lawyer to take the risk.
Q. How many people constitute a class?
A. It's up to the courts, but they've held as few as 20 people to be enough, and as many as millions.
Q. How have class actions evolved over the years?
A. Their main use in the early days was in securities, anti-trust and some consumer cases. The defense bar fought against them for a long time, especially when plaintiffs' lawyers started using them in other areas, like mass torte: personal injury cases like silicone breast implants, asbestos, etc. To have mass certification, you need a predominance of common questions of law and fact, as opposed to "individual" questions. The defense bar argued that mass injury cases were predominantly about individual issues. And, of course, corporate America preferred to pick off each plaintiff one by one, making it so expensive that they wouldn't pursue it.
After awhile, though, even defendants saw class actions as a benefit, because they could wrap up all their problems in one package and dispose of it. But they'd already poisoned the well with their arguments. So now, we're going through a sea change in the way mass injury cases are handled. The legal community is considering whether they should be allowed to be "settled" as class actions, despite the fact that they may not be able to be litigated as such.
Q. What was it like pioneering these cases?
A. Sometimes, it could be hell. I really had no idea how they would end up. I was living from hand to mouth; I had long commutes and young children. Everything was at risk. As the firm grew bigger, we had a larger payroll, and the risk of failure was even more profound. There were more people relying on us. But I've always been a risk-taker by nature. I tend to look ahead, not behind. And everything worked out for the best.
Q. Things have changed with regard to class actions since you won victories like Drexel/Milken?
A. Yes. When Congress became predominantly Republican, they passed the Reform Bill in 1995, making it more difficult to file these cases in the securities industry. They created the illusion that these were frivolous cases, part of a litigation explosion perpetuated by greedy lawyers. Actually, the number of cases hasn't changed much over the last 20 years, despite an explosion in the number of securities that are traded, and the number of companies that are now public.
The accountants behind this bill failed dismally as auditors. In my view, they've not fulfilled their mandate to be independent and are easily swayed by the clients who pay their bills to get a certain result. And, they've attracted allies -- the hi-tech companies, mainly in Silicon Valley and Cambridge, Mass. We've found an awful lot of securities manipulation and financial wrongdoing in these start-up companies, because the stakes are very high. They can make fortunes overnight and then, five years later, they're gone. So, they don't like people like us standing up for those who are victimized.
Q. Is this true with other types of cases, like products liability?
A. Yes. There's a business round table spurred by companies like Dow Corning and Dow Chemical, who are trying to insulate themselves from accountability by getting Federal pre-emption. This means that if, for instance, a drug is approved by the F.D.A., no matter what happens to you as a result of using that drug thereafter, these companies can't be sued. That's pretty horrible.
Q. Your firm initiated the "Joe Camel" suits in California. How are lawsuits against the tobacco companies coming along?
A. A lot of the people suffering from tobacco-related injuries got hooked on the stuff during periods when the industry was lying about the impact. Even today, they're not telling the whole truth: they're unwilling, it appears, to put an unequivocal statement on a package that says cigarettes can cause cancer and are addictive.
When we were growing up and starting to smoke, the tobacco companies were already lying about what they knew the dangers to be. I have no problem with holding the industry accountable. The problem is, the court has to make a judgment whether common questions predominate over individual ones. They have to consider if there were other injurious influences -- did you live near a polluted waste dump, for example? But, when the A.G.'s hired lawyers to bring these actions as "economic" cases -- not personal injury -- to get back the money spent on health problems, that's when the tobacco companies started to break down.
President Clinton has helped a great deal. He's being very conscientious. I think, at this point, the settlement -- $358 billion -- is far too cheap. There are a lot of people not at the table yet who should be -- unions, states, counties, municipalities, companies that are self-insured -- all of which have picked up medical costs. When all of these claims become part of the settlement, and the amount is increased sufficiently to take care of them, then I think you'll see a legislative settlement. A lot of prognosticators feel this will happen by the end of the spring. I think it will take another $150 billion.
Q. You've long fought to reform the insurance industry, having won cases against New York Life, Prudential Life, to name a few. You are also lead counsel in a number of other high-profile insurance cases. What is being done?
A. The life insurance industry, which is regulated by each state, not federally, went virtually unregulated for 15 years since the early 80's with respect to their marketing practices. As a result, there was a lot of fraud. Companies were churning their customers, promising that premiums would vanish after a certain period of time and they didn't, and they were misrepresenting products as investment products when they were, in fact, insurance products. We got involved in these kinds of cases a couple of years ago. I formed a consortium of law firms around the country, and we've been taking on the biggest insurance companies. We've created an innovative settlement technique which has an alternative dispute resolution aspect to it. It's already been adopted by several courts.
Q. How did you get involved in the Swiss bank litigations involving Holocaust victims and their heirs?
A. I have to give kudos to a lawyer in Washington D.C., Mike Hausfeld, who I worked with on the Exxon Valdez case. He was the one who organized the pro bono effort; some lawyers in the case aren't working pro bono. The second he told me what he was doing, I was on board.
Right now, the judge is sitting on his decision as to whether or not we can continue this case in the U.S. I think that, if he rules our way, the odds of the case settling increase tremendously, as will the amount that we'll get for the victims.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Melvyn Weiss, a lawyer specializing in class-action cases. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MILBERG WEISS BERSHAD HYNES & LERACH MILBERG LLP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MILBERG WEISS BERSHAD HYNES & LERACH

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LEGAL PROFESSION LITIGATION (92%); LAWYERS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); PRO BONO LAW (78%); SMOKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (62%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (55%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (52%); 

PERSON: WEISS, MELVYN; KONIG, SUSAN

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



383 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1642 words

HEADLINE: Theme Restaurants Draw Mall Crowds

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN 

 BODY:
T. J. CARROLL of Bellerose pointed at the fish in the ceiling-high aquarium at the Rainforest Cafe in Westbury. "Look at that!" T. J., 4, shouted to his mother, Margaret.
Moments later he looked up to see a monkey rocking on a swing above, his long tail swaying back and forth. 
 "It's a stuffed animal," Ms. Carroll told her son.
"But look at it," he said. "It's funny."
He took her hand and led her to the front of the retail area, where four parrots were on perches as an animal specialist, Marissa Schechter, explained their care. T. J. inched his way to the front, and his eyes widened as he spotted an alligator beneath Ms. Schechter's feet.
He stared intently for a moment and turned to his mother. "The birds are real, but the alligator is fake," he told her.
Later, as T. J. watched the parrots, Ms. Schechter said she had heard about the restaurant but was unaware it was such an attraction. "I came to see the mall, and this is what caught his eye," she said.
The mall is the Source, a two-story shopping center that opened on Sept. 5 as an extension of Fortunoff, a fixture on Old Country Road since 1964. A total of 35 stores dot the mall, and by the summer all 66 stores will be open, said the mall manager, Pamela J. Jurus.
The crowds, Ms. Jurus said, have been "above and beyond our expectations."
The successful economy, the mix of stores and the latest in franchises and food courts, in the opinion of retail experts, have combined to make the Source one of the hottest attractions in Nassau County. The neighboring Roosevelt Field mall, with the much-awaited opening of Nordstrom's last summer and a revitalized Bloomingdale's in a former A &S store, is also attracting large groups of shoppers, even before the holiday season starts.
The operations director for Rainforest, Michael J. Halpern, said the restaurant had had extraordinary business. The chain, which has nine other sites in the United States and three overseas, had expected Westbury to be one of its best. But crowds the first month, Mr. Halpern said, were so large that they were second only to the restaurant at Walt Disney World in Lake Buena Vista, Fla., where five-hour waits for tables are not uncommon.
"We served up to 2,000 and 3,000 people a day and 4,000 on Saturday and Sunday," Mr. Halpern said, adding that customers wait two to three hours for tables on weekends. "We thought people would find us during the holidays and we're happy they are finding us before that."
Next door at the Source is the Cheesecake Factory, where customers routinely wait more than two hours for tables. "They're crazy about us," said its executive vice president, Linda J. Candioty. "Long Island guests are incredible. They have an appetite for good food and good value."
The average annual sales in each of the 23 restaurants in the chain is $9.3 million, according to Ms. Candioty, and the company expects the Westbury store to exceed that. "This area has great demographics," she said. "Fortunoff is a great store, and the Costco, which is nearby, is the busiest in the country."
On a recent rainy Sunday crowds descended on both restaurants within minutes of the 11 A.M. opening. By 11:30, the Rainforest had a 20-minute wait for its 99 tables and 380 seats. By 1 o'clock, the wait was almost two hours, and it stayed there throughout much of the afternoon.
The waiting for one of the 300 seats at the Cheesecake Factory did not start as early, but by 2 P.M. it was running about 50 minutes.
"Both restaurants are destinations, not spur of the moment," said Mr. Halpern.
Virtually all of more than 20 people interviewed at the Rainforest said they had raced to sign up for a table when they arrived at the mall, rather than shop first.
"You normally can't get in here," said Lorraine D. Caruso of Mineola, who was on the Rainforest line with her granddaughter Jackie, 16. "That's why we're here at 11:30. My granddaughter is taking me out to lunch, and I wanted to come here."
She said two times before the Rainforest line was too long for her to wait. "It's like a Disney World," Mrs. Caruso said.
While waiting for her table, Robin S. Isaacs of Dix Hills held her daughter Jessica, 3, to show her the fish. Then Ms. Isaacs wandered among the T-shirts, sweatshirts, animal mugs, stuffed animals and other knicknacks.
Animated toy animals like jaguars, butterflies, apes and elephants lurk amid the vines and heavy foliage. "This is an ideal place for children," Ms. Isaacs said. "The concept is so educational. It shows different animals in their natural habitat and how important it is to keep the forests the way they are. If they are cut down there will be no place for the animals to live. It's one thing to see animals in a zoo. But here they are in their natural surroundings."
At the nearby We're Entertainment, Craig and Laura Merola of Laurel Hollow pushed a child in a stroller past the sweatshirts while their two other youngsters walked beside them.
"We're killing some time here," Mr. Merola said, adding that the Rainforest had a 20-minute wait and that this was her children's fourth visit. Asked whether the children had become bored, Mr. Merola turned to his children. "No!" they shouted in unison. One child, Jeffrey, 6 1/2, said he enjoyed watching the jaguar and leopards. "Sometimes they blink and wag their tail," he said.
In the nearby food court, Kami Radin of Long Beach and her two children munched on cinnamon and sesame pretzels and said they planned to return during the week to the Rainforest. "They are dying to go back," Ms. Radin said. "It's the big attraction."
As she ate the pretzel, from Auntie Anne's, she pronounced it quite good. An hour later customers were waiting 30 minutes for pretzels. Although Ms. Radin said there was no line at the Cheesecake Factory, she said it "looked a little fancy and was not appropriate for children."
"But I would like to go there with my husband," she added.
At a table at the Cheesecake Factory, Jake and Karen Rosenberg of Valley Stream were with their sons, 4 and 2. They said they had decided to eat there rather than wait at the Rainforest. "We didn't want to wait with the kids, and it was very crowded," Mrs. Rosenberg said. "We were overwhelmed by it. We just wanted a place to eat with the kids."
Mr. Rosenberg added that they had spent more than 20 minutes studying the menu, which has more than 200 dishes. "The menu is so complicated," he said.
On line to sign up for a table at the Rainforest, Jodie Z. Babbush of Canarsie said she had eaten there seven or eight times. Told that she would have to wait an hour for lunch, Ms. Babbush smiled and said:
"An hour is good. A few weeks ago on a Saturday we got here at 5:10 and got seated at 9:50. I knew the wait was going to be long. But I never anticipated it would be that long. If it was just a restaurant that stood alone I wouldn't wait that long. But there are shops around here."
Ms. Babbush said she had also eaten at the Cheesecake Factory and found that although "the food was magnificent, the restaurant was not kid friendly, because there was no children's menu."
Not everybody took the waiting in stride.
"It looks like a couple of hours wait," Steven Dalman said as he peeked into the Cheesecake Factory.
"It's too crowded," his wife, Elaine, said. "I'd never come back on a weekend. We were shopping at Fortunoff, and just walking into the mall was wall-to-wall people. I live near a mall in Smithtown, and it's not as crowded."
At the entrance to the Cheesecake Factory, Harvey A. Strickon and his wife, Linda, of Great Neck, were discussing the discounters in the mall like Loehmann's, the Nordstrom Rack and Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet when the pager in Mr. Strickon's pocket began to vibrate. Pagers are given to customers on waiting lists rather than using a loudspeaker.
"Remember, you're name is Mintz," Mrs. Strickon told her husband with a chuckle as he went to answer the page. She explained that while waiting for a table someone named Mintz who could not wait any longer gave up his pager.
"When I came here the first week it opened, the mall was practically empty," Mrs. Strickon said. "I've been back periodically, and it's getting quite congested."
But no one eating at the Rainforest appeared upset with the crowds, the constant playing of jungle sounds over the loudspeaker and the re-creation of a thunderstorm every 22 minutes.
"It's part of the ambiance," Joanne Salvani of Lynbrook said as shouted to be heard. "And the kids love it. I'm going to bring my other grandchildren, too."
As her granddaughter Nicole, 12, pushed away an unfinished salad her grandfather, Mark, asked loudly: "Where else can you find this type of entertainment on Long Island? It's fantastic."
 
quently ordered dishes at the Rainforest Cafe in Westbury:
Rainforest pita quesadillas (sauteed peppers, caramelized onions, grilled chicken and melted chicken on a grilled pita) $7.99 -- an estimated 830 orders a week.
 Mojo bones (oven roasted ribs) $7.99 -- 360 orders a week.
Rasta pasta (bow-tie pasta, grilled chicken, walnut pesto, broccoli, red peppers, spinach and fresh herbs tossed in a garlic cream sauce) $11.99 -- 435 orders a week.
China Island chicken salad (tender grilled chicken breast, rice noodles, toasted sesame seeds, shredded carrots and chopped scallions) $9.99 -- 380 orders a week.
The most popular dishes at Cheesecake Factory in Westbury:
Original cheesecake -- an estimated 1,290 slices served a week. All cheesecakes are $4.95 to $5.95.
Fresh strawberry cheesecake -- 1,100 slices a week.
Oreo cheesecake -- 970 slices a week.
White chocolate raspberry truffle -- 850 slices each week.
Chinese chicken salad $9.50 -- 500 orders a week.
Chicken Madeira (sauteed chicken) $12.95 -- 460 orders a week.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Examining the "wildlife" at the Rainforest Cafe, a restaurant in the Source shopping center in Westbury. (Lois Raimondo for The New York Times); The Rainforest Cafe in Westbury has stuffed animals and live ones, including a parrot. (Lois Raimondo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CAKE (NASDAQ) (84%); JWN (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (84%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (81%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (81%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (81%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORTUNOFF'S; SOURCE, THE (SHOPPING CENTER); RAINFOREST CAFE (RESTAURANT CHAIN); CHEESECAKE FACTORY INC CHEESECAKE FACTORY INC (84%); NORDSTROM INC (81%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORTUNOFF'S; SOURCE, THE (SHOPPING CENTER); RAINFOREST CAFE (RESTAURANT CHAIN); CHEESECAKE FACTORY INC

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTBURY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (92%); RETAILERS (92%); THEME RESTAURANTS (90%); FISHES (78%); ANIMALS (78%); TOYS & GAMES (76%); 

PERSON: AIN, STEWART MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



384 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 36; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Washington Exhibition Underscores Thomas Moran's Stature

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS BRAFF 

 BODY:
UNCANNY expanses of tall, lavender rock formations crowned in orange and silhhouetted against pink-tinged horizons were a revelation to Congress in 1872, when Thomas Moran's Yellowstone watercolors were presented as supporting evidence in the debates that led to the establishment of the National Park Service. The Government subsequently made the artist's panoramic canvases "Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone," 1872, and "Chasm of the Colorado," 1873-74, its first painting purchases for the Capitol, thus propelling him to national prominence.
Moran's successes over the next decade provided the financial basis for acquiring a former sheep pasture overlooking East Hampton's Town Pond and constructing a studio-residence in the Queen Anne-style currently favored by his artist-acquaintances in London. Beginning in 1884, and continuing for four decades, many of Moran's widely scattered geographic themes were painted on Long Island, including some that are currently featured in the stunning retrospective on view at the National Gallery of Art in Washington until Jan. 11, 1998. Moran, who was born in 1837 and died in 1926, followed the long tradition of using field sketches and composing and painting his canvases in the studio. 
 This grand retrospective examines 56 years, brings together approximately 100 oils, watercolors and drawings and features his most important projects. It is essential to understanding Moran's reputation since his significance derives from the way he tested his talents with the Western settings that make up the bulk of the material filling nine galleries on two levels of the museum. The presentation eliminates some thematic interests and gives short shrift to others, most notably his Long Island scenes, but admittedly, it is not the eastern landscapes, fine as many are, that make Moran stand apart. It was the intention of the museum, with Nancy Anderson as the exhibition's curator, to show what earned the artist a place in the history of American art.
Perhaps the show's most spectacular point is the room displaying the two Congressional purchases, each 12-feet in width, and the majestic "Mountain of the Holy Cross," a vertical canvas of comparable height that depicts a famed Colorado mountain side with snow accumulation in the configuration of a cross. Some may have considered this a comment on the divine ordination of America's scenic resources.
In the context of the 1870's, the three paintings reflect a country now crossed by the railroads that would make the economic development of the West a certainty. Moran's visions focus on the nation's glories and could have been read as celebrations either of progress or of the point when preservation concerns were crystallizing. The works are shown together for the first time as the triptych the artist had hoped to present at the Centennial Exposition. The Government had refused the 1876 loan request.
What impresses most visitors is Moran's gifts as a colorist. The feeling strikes most keenly in the gallery devoted to his interpretations of the tall, orange-topped buttes rising along the Green River in Wyoming. Gleaming, sometimes fiery images vibrate against his intense blue skies and are accented by resonant tones in the notations of foliage.
Absolutely spectacular swirling reds and yellows deliver tremendous visual energy in the exhibition's only example of the artist's interest in literary and fantasy subjects, the "Fiercely the red sun descending/ Burned his way across the heavens," inspired by Longfellow's "Song of Hiawatha." Its loose and vibrant approach is a reminder of Moran's long admiration for the paintings of Turner.
In fresh and sparkling watercolors that will come as a surprise to many, Moran seems to have used pigment expressively and imaginatively, with no limits on his daring. They can be delicate renderings of some of the world's most forceful, aggressive settings, and they often use translucent tonalities to suggest formidable rocky masses. A light and luminous "Hot Springs, Yellowstone," for example, depicts sequences of stone masses with translucent orange, transparent blue washes and thicker white gouache. Occasionally an area of color represents a landscape sensation with a freedom that today seems to be a compelling abstraction. The potential excitement for the modern eye adds to Moran's stature.
Large, major canvases are highlights throughout the exhibition. There is the broad view of powerful mid-Atlantic waves treated in "Spectres From the North," and the massive history piece, "Ponce de Leon in Florida," which Moran had hoped would be another acquisition for the Capitol.
But the spectacular effects come mostly from the views of sun-drenched peaks organized to allow the light flow to create great visual drama. Distances are vast, the geology wondrous, and there are grand, almost aerial views of mountains, with some offering just the right angle and scale to produce a feeling of vertigo.
By linking Moran's career to the rise, and eventual decline of Western themes, the exhibition overlooks the way he also responded to the developing taste for intimate, more accessible nature views and for nostalgic comments on a rural past that was rapidly vanishing. Long Island subjects served these ideas nicely and also afforded opportunities to include deep, distant horizons.
Loans are from across the country, with the most substantial quantity coming from the holdings of the Gilcrease Museum in Tulsa, Okla., where the retrospective opens in February. Its third and final stop will be Seattle.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Green River Cliffs, Wyoming" (1881) by Thomas Moran is on view at the National Gallery of Art in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (WASHINGTON, DC) XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (91%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (91%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (58%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (WASHINGTON, DC) NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (91%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (91%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (58%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); COLORADO, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); ART HISTORY (71%); 

PERSON: MORAN, THOMAS (1837-1926); BRAFF, PHYLLIS

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



385 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 19; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: A Book on China Dam

BYLINE: By ANNE C. FULLAM 

 BODY:
A DISSIDENT book protesting the damming of the Yangtze River in China is being published in Westchester.
Edited by Dai Qing, a Chinese journalist, the book, "The River Dragon Has Come: The Three Gorges Dam and the Fate of China's Yangtze River and Its People" is being published by M. E. Sharp Company, a small social sciences publisher in Armonk. 
 Promoting the Three Gorges dam project in Hubei Province, Chinese officials will speak Thursday at the Waldorf-Astoria in Manhattan. Protesting the project, Dai Qing spoke before various groups in Washington last week. Ms. Qing will also speak at the Asian Pacific Economic Conference in Vancouver this week.
"Potential coffer dam failures, unusable navigation facilities and sedimentation problems threaten the safety and viability of the Three Gorges Dam project," wrote Owen Lammers, executive director of International Rivers Network, in a news release about the book. The organization is based in Berkeley, Calif., and dedicated to protecting rivers and watersheds around the world.
"This is merely the most recent evidence that science and engineering are taking a back seat to political agendas in order to erect this monument to China's hard-line regime," Mr. Lammers writes.
More than 1.2 million people will be relocated because of the project, which will create a reservoir nearly 350 miles long, the distance from Manhattan to Montreal.
Untold treasures will be buried as the project progresses. Archeologists estimate that nearly 10,000 sites will be lost once the river is dammed. Some above-ground treasures, like temples, will be relocated. But artifacts dating back 4,000 years will be lost.
Unmatched in engineering annals since the Great Wall, the great dam will have eradicated about 1,400 rural towns and villages by its completion in 2009.
Chinese officials hope the dam will solve China's projected energy crisis. Standing 607 feet high, the 1.3 mile-long dam will house 26 of the world's largest turbines.
Among the essays and field reports in the book are warnings from engineers and scientists, who cite a series of dam collapses in China in 1975, in a period of great flooding. More than 100,000 died after 60 dams broke.A former missile technician and military intelligence agent, Ms. Qing was imprisoned after the violence at Tiananmen Square in 1989. A columnist at one of China's largest dailies. she was also named a Nieman Fellow at Harvard University and a fellow at the Freedom Forum at Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism.
 The book lists for $39.95. The M. E. Sharp Company has published other works by Ms. Qing. ANNE C. FULLAM

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: RIVER DRAGON HAS COME, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: YANGTZE RIVER (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); HUBEI, CHINA (92%); CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SHARP, M E, CO XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHARP, M E, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: YANGTZE RIVER (CHINA); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); ASIA (79%); YANGTZE RIVER (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); HUBEI, CHINA (92%); CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DAMS AND DIKES; THREE GORGES DAM (CHINA); BOOKS AND LITERATURE PUBLISHING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); RIVERS (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); WRITERS (90%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); RELOCATIONS (74%); ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); 

PERSON: FULLAM, ANNE C; DAI QING

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



386 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: A New UConn Campus Takes Shape

BYLINE: By BILL SLOCUM 

 BODY:
UNIVERSITY and city leaders alike are embracing the University of Connecticut's new campus in Stamford, a three-story, 243,000-square-foot building under construction at the corner of Washington Boulevard and Broad Street. The downtown campus, scheduled to open in January, will accommodate 3,000 students, double the number at the Scofieldtown Road campus in North Stamford, which is reverting to the city of Stamford.
The new campus arrives with a $10 million endowment largely from private corporations, an arresting design of steel and glass, and a mission: To mesh the academic interests of a college campus with the information-technology market growing around it. 
 A change in attitude among staff in Stamford has already taken hold. The old habit of calling it the "Stamford branch" is likely to spur a quick correction; its days as a mere appendage to Storrs, more than two hours' drive away. are over, they say.
At the heart of the new campus is the Connecticut Information Technology Institute, a degree program set up by UConn's engineering and business schools at Storrs. The program, known by the acronym CITI and supported by public and private initiatives, is meant to train a work force in information technology.
Stamford, the home of many technology-driven corporations, wants to broaden its support for these companies, and the city's economic development director, Kip Bergstrom, said a downtown UConn campus would fill that need nicely.
"On any given day, there are 200 job openings at information technology companies in Stamford," Mr. Bergstrom said. "These companies are doubling in size every year. If we want to keep that growth here, we have to supply the work force." The Mayor of Stamford, Dannel P. Malloy, said the campus would also offer a more sophisticated atmosphere and a younger night life to what Mr. Malloy calls "the most alive, busiest downtown between New York and Boston."
"This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for the university to reinvent itself, to put itself on the map in a highly focused technology category," he said. "We are an economic and financial services center. There are so many things to be a part of."
In order for UConn's Downtown Initiative, as the new campus effort is called, to get where it is today, proponents had to overcome the doubts of university presidents and state governors as well as a faculty in Storrs that saw development in Stamford as a drain on an already poorly funded state university.
L.C. (Whitey) Heist, a UConn trustee and an Old Greenwich resident who was president of the Champion Corporation, recalled faculty resistance as particularly fierce. "They see it as one less dollar for them," Mr. Heist said, "not one more dollar for the university as a whole."
That mood has since been assuaged by the financial support the Downtown Initiative has received from Stamford corporations, but Mr. Heist insisted the mood of resistance has not gone away. "It's not something you hear anymore on the Storrs campus," he said. "It's politically incorrect now. But do most of the faculty at Storrs think it's a good idea? No."
Traditionally the legislature has not been especially supportive of the university, and Fairfield County legislators even less so. But the early backing of two Stamford Democrats, House majority leader Moira Lyons and Senate majority leader George Jepsen, along with Republican Senator William Nickerson of Greenwich, was central in turning the tide and including Stamford as a key component of a $1 billion, 10-year package.
Gov. John G. Rowland, like his predecessor Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr., was reportedly not warm to the idea initially, but is said to have since become more supportive. "I don't think he originally understood the implications of it all, but he came around quick," said Frank D. Rich Jr., a developer in Stamford and formerly a UConn trustee.
The implications include a campus that will be wired into the technological world around it as well as connected to the economic boomlet in lower Fairfield County.
Some of the Storrs faculty seem not only resigned to a downtown Stamford campus but positively ebullient about it. Thomas Gutteridge, dean of UConn's business school, speaks of the "fantastic potential" inherent in the new site and its relationship to the Stamford business community.
"We want to be known for excellence in technology," he said. "What we are seeing in Stamford is a common thread of technological sophistication."
Many of UConn's other satellite campuses -- the Health Center in Farmington, the law school in Hartford -- have forged identities by specializing in specific fields of learning. Even campuses that offer liberal arts degrees have their niches: The Avery Point campus in Groton, for example, has become known for its concentration in marine sciences.
Mr. Gutteridge foresees a similar concentration in business at the new Stamford campus: "Not that it won't have other things, but there is no question the Stamford campus will have a very strong business focus."
Fred Maryanski, UConn's vice chancellor and overseer of its regional campuses, notes the Stamford campus will continue to offer six undergraduate liberal arts degrees. But he agrees the "evolving focus" has been on business.
The Master's of Business Administration program has been one of the Stamford's biggest draws, with some 500 part-time students, and 50 more enrolled in the executive M.B.A. program. Now, the campus will be able to offer bachelor's degrees in business, too. Seminar and workshop programs will be set up in the evenings, according to Stamford's business school director, Birgit Berry, drawing on the area's large senior executive pool for both speakers and attendees.
Space won't be a problem at the new campus; two auditoriums, a computer center and two-story library are among its features.
But new programs require new faculty, and that, Ms. Berry noted, means money. "CITI will bring us additional faculty," she said, "but the undergraduate program will mean more full-time faculty, and money needs to come in for that. We have a great building going up, but if we don't get staffing, it's going to prevent us from growing."
Whether that building is completed in time to meet a Jan. 21 deadline for vacating Scofieldtown Road is a deeper concern right now than staffing. Complications have ranged from a construction company's bankruptcy to trouble with footings in what is left of the shell last used by Bloomingdale's in the 1980's. The original opening day had to be pushed back from October, and there are concerns it may be pushed back again.
UConn Stamford's interim director, Curtiss E. Porter, insists Jan. 21 is still a realistic deadline. "It's going to be a quick step, but it's very doable," he said.
Many in Stamford hope the campus will expand the number of undergraduate degrees it offers after a three-year phase-in program is completed. Mr. Heist likes the idea of introducing fine arts programming, noting the city's two major theaters as well as its proximity to Broadway.
UConn officials in Storrs uniformly dismiss the idea of a decentralized university program, even with the appointment last year of a new president, Philip Austin, previously chancellor of the University of Alabama, which has no central campus. Mr. Gutteridge calls the Stamford campus "a spoke in a wheel" that will still have its hub in Storrs.
But if the university's authority remains concentrated in Storrs, its orientation no longer seems as focused north of Hartford. Of the 19 trustees, Mr. Heist is one of three from Greenwich, geographically as far from Storrs as is possible without leaving the state. But Mr. Austin said he was in Stamford "every two, three weeks." "Our deans of business and engineering are down there repeatedly. We have made a substantial commitment, and this should be interpreted as UConn's commitment to Fairfield County."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Construction continues on UConn's new downtown Stamford campus at Washington and Broad. A Jan. 21 deadline has been set for leaving the old campus in North Stamford. (Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT CITIGROUP INC (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (79%); ENDOWMENTS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); GOVERNORS (66%); 

PERSON: SLOCUM, BILL DANNEL MALLOY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



387 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 12; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Energy Leader Gets the Ear of the President

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS

 BODY:
THOMAS R. CASTEN has been rising before the sun, the ideas flowing even before his head leaves the pillow. Position papers, a book, all are taking shape under headings like "The Environmental Benefits of Electric Company Restructuring" and "Combining Production of Heat and Power."
For 20 years, the 6-foot-1 Mr. Casten, a former Marine who served in Vietnam, said he has been waiting for someone of national importance to heed his message: power plants can become doubly efficient and in the process dramatically reduce their emission of greenhouse gases by capturing waste heat and turning it into steam for heating office buildings and houses. 
 One of the most effective and economical ways to help the environment, he said, is for electric companies to compete with one another on the open market instead of being hampered by outmoded regulations.
Now, at last, someone is paying attention to what Mr. Casten has to say. That someone is the President of the United States.
Mr. Casten, president of Trigen Energy Corporation here, was one of the industry leaders who gathered for a daylong White House conference on climate change held recently at Georgetown University in Washington. President Clinton engaged in intense discussion with a panel of experts, including Mr. Casten, in preparation for a 150-country meeting on global warming to be held next month in Kyoto, Japan. Negotiations for an international treaty to limit emissions of carbon dioxide are expected to culminate at the meeting, which is viewed as a first step in reducing the rate of increase of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.
Mr. Casten has shown his energy and determination in groups as diverse as the Boy Scouts, which, for his lifetime of service, named him the Distinguished Eagle Scout in Westchester and Putnam Counties this year, and the Westchester Philharmonic, which he helped start in 1983.
Scientists have painted a dire picture of what will happen on earth if heat-trapping carbon dioxide emissions, produced by the burning of fossil fuels, are not curtailed.
"My message today is simple," the 55-year-old Mr. Casten told Mr. Clinton, Vice President Al Gore and other members of the audience. "You can unleash market forces that will lower greenhouse gas emissions and reduce energy costs by opening electric markets to retail competition. America's entrepreneurs will eliminate energy waste, if given a chance to compete." Then he added: "When you go to Kyoto, play to our strengths. Tell the other nations that we will unleash our entrepreneurial strength to improve power plants worldwide."
A few weeks later, at the National Geographic Society in Washington, when he heard President Clinton's address on global warming, Mr. Casten said he was gratified to hear the following: "Here at home, we must move forward by unleashing the full power of free markets and technological innovations to meet the challenge of climate change." The President later presented a plan to reach the 1990 greenhouse emissions level by 2008 to 2012 with a $5 billion program of tax cuts and research and development for new technologies, incentives for companies that cut emissions early and an international-market-based emissions trading system.
Never mind that the President did not quite endorse deregulation and critics contend that the Government is moving too slowly to curtail greenhouse gases, Mr. Casten said. The ball, though still on the one-yard line at the wrong end of the field, he said, is at least in motion.
Trigen, a company founded by Mr. Casten and several partners in 1980, aims to cut fuel use and pollution in half by using the heat normally wasted in generating a product like electricity. The company, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, operates with a system called combined heat and power to produce electricity, steam and chilled water for cooling from one source. Trigen -- the term trigeneration, which the company coined, refers to the generation of the three products -- serves customers like the Coors brewery in Golden, Colo., the John Hancock Building in Boston, the Nassau Community College and public buildings in Nassau County and government offices and other buildings in Philadelphia, Baltimore and St. Louis, among other cities.
The company, which had total revenues of $250 million last year, claims 70 percent efficiency for its fuel compared with 30 percent efficiency for most of the larger power plants in the country. What bothers Mr. Casten is that utility companies are not permitted to use the strategies and maneuvers that enable other businesses to grow and be innovative. Under current laws, utility companies lack the incentive for improvement, he said.
Mr. Casten said he believes that market forces are the answer to the global catastrophe -- at least where the United States is concerned. He approached addressing the President like an actor who has been studying his role for a long time: he was raring to go. "I wasn't nervous," Mr. Casten said in a recent interview in his office. "I've never been so prepared for anything in my life."
Before the Georgetown conference took place, President Clinton referred to Trigen and to Mr. Casten by name in discussing efficient energy production with a group of weather forecasters. After the conference, his picture appeared in The Washington Post with Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore, and magazine editorials repeated phrases nearly verbatim from his speech. To those who know the Colorado native, his effective use of the limelight came as no surprise. He was the founding chairman of the Westchester Philharmonic, and many credit the orchestra's continued success to his firm guidance in its early years.
But because recycled energy is not a widely familiar concept, Mr. Casten was not able to use his gifts for communication and persuasion in his own arena until recently, when the coming Kyoto conference forced a thorough study of the global warming issue. Now that he has the President's ear, Mr. Casten said, he is keeping a steady flow of information headed toward Washington about the benefits of deregulation. Opponents include members of the utilities industry as well as some environmentalists, who fear increased pollution if coal plants in the Middle West are allowed to make power for the Northeast.
"Markets don't work that way," Mr. Casten said. "Typically, an environmentalist is not somebody that really understands markets."
He referred to the dissension within the Administration about suggestions like taxing carbon -- a strategy Mr. Casten vehemently opposes -- and compared deregulating electricity with opening trade with China: it took a Republican, Richard M. Nixon, to do the latter, and it may take a Democrat, operating within a traditional Republican domain, to do the former. "This is not a popular political issue," Mr. Casten said. "This is Clinton thinking about his legacy. It is his fate to have been the President of the most powerful nation in the world when we found out, almost for the first time, that human activities had reached a scale where we were affecting the globe."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas R. Casten, president, Trigen Energy Corporation. (Roberta Hershenson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TGN (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221330 STEAM & AIR-CONDITIONING SUPPLY (69%); SIC4961 STEAM & AIR-CONDITIONING SUPPLY (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (54%); 

CITY: KYOTO, JAPAN (50%); 

COMPANY: TRIGEN ENERGY CORP TRIGEN ENERGY CORP (69%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (50%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRIGEN ENERGY CORP GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KYOTO (JAPAN); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (54%); KYOTO, JAPAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; CARBON DIOXIDE ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (87%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); GEOGRAPHY (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); 

PERSON: HERSHENSON, ROBERTA; CASTEN, THOMAS R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (87%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



388 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/Hudson View Gardens;
In Upper Manhattan, a 1924 Touch of Tudor Suburbia

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
THE labyrinth of long one-way streets in upper Manhattan just north of the George Washington Bridge gives the neighborhood a sequestered air. And one of the best-kept secrets is Hudson View Gardens, a 1924 garden-apartment co-op complex between Pinehurst Avenue and Cabrini Boulevard, from 183d to 185th Street. The complex has almost completed a restoration campaign begun six years ago, and the nearly suburban enclave is a delight for anyone dissatisfied with the traditional New York City apartment.
Hudson View Gardens was built by Dr. Charles V. Paterno. Although Paterno got his medical degree in 1899, he never practiced medicine; he instead joined his brothers Joseph and Michael in the family contracting business. Just after 1900 they began to concentrate on apartment development around the Columbia University campus at 116th Street and Broadway, and they hit a comfortable formula with the new type of 12-story elevator apartment buildings that were beginning to line West End Avenue and Broadway. 
 Apparently there was plenty of business, because by 1915 the brothers had established separate contracting firms and later built some of the most luxurious buildings on Park and Fifth Avenues.
Charles Paterno bought a plot of land on the high cliff overlooking the Hudson at 184th Street, where in 1908 he built a stone house similar to a castle on the Rhine. Its giant retaining wall is still obvious to northbound drivers on the Henry Hudson Parkway, just north of the George Washington Bridge. At the same time the new Broadway subway line was attracting other developers to upper Manhattan, and to protect his estate he bought an additional 20 acres a block away. The land sat empty through the 1910's, as Paterno built big buildings all over Manhattan farther south.
In 1923 he finally decided to develop the land and hired the architect George F. Pelham Jr., who came up with an unusually inventive plan. The long, north-south site slopes steeply down to the west from Pinehurst Avenue to Cabrini, and Pelham designed two solid walls of apartment buildings facing the avenues. But he made each line an irregular facade of peaked roofs and landscaped indentations, all in the Tudor style then becoming popular in suburban apartment houses.
In a brilliant move, Pelham and Paterno created a secluded enclave by placing the building entrances toward the center of the lot -- an area developers of other sites usually left as a barren concrete courtyard. Running a private street down the center -- it is still private -- they put the taller six-story elevator apartment buildings on the high side and the lower four-story walkup buildings on the low side, to distribute river views as widely as possible among the 354 apartments.
Because the westernmost buildings are downslope, this long central area has plenty of afternoon light. The craggy retaining walls and irregular stairways make a picturesque space, creating the feel of a medieval hill town. Because Paterno wanted to appeal to a higher economic class than that in the surrounding buildings, he built Hudson View Gardens as a co-op rather than a rental complex. In one advertisement in August 1924, the most expensive apartment was a two-bedroom for $10,000, with maintenance of $84 a month. Most apartments were one- or two-bedrooms.
For the target tenant -- someone who might otherwise live in a small midblock apartment in central Manhattan -- Hudson View Gardens was out of the way. So Paterno put everything he could into providing efficient apartments in beautiful surroundings. Kitchens were carefully planned and had automatic dishwashers; living rooms had built-in Murphy beds. There was central radio service with a rooftop technician in charge of monitoring incoming signals, a post office, a child's nursery, a barber shop, community rooms, a restaurant and a grocery.
IN 1925 Pelham wrote about the difficulty of marketing new ideas. "There is little of the pioneer in the speculative builder," he declared, because "the New York renter is indeed a timorous fellow." Perhaps because of this timorousness, 200 apartments remained vacant for a year, and Paterno increased his advertising budget from $50,000 to $400,000.
Andrew S. Dolkart, a preservationist and historian, moved into the complex a decade ago and has painstakingly collected Paterno's promotional literature. The newspapers of the day were filled with advertisements designed to look like news stories: "Fine Families Flock to Apartment Citadel" was the headline for one in The New York Times in 1924. Paterno even offered purchasers a money-back guarantee.
A look at the few available previous addresses of new tenants suggests that many were already living in upper Manhattan: Harry A. Kidder, an electrical engineer, moved from Wadsworth Avenue, and William Gettinger, an engraver, moved from West 160th Street. It is difficult to determine how well Paterno made out on his investment, but he did protect his clifftop castle from undesirable neighbors.
Mr. Dolkart said that Paterno's venture had apparently not influenced other builders -- the surrounding buildings are almost all standard in design.
In the 1920's Paterno bought an estate in Westchester near Armonk, and in 1927 he announced plans for a 90-story apartment house across the Hudson on the Palisades -- a venture with which he never went ahead. In 1939 he replaced his castle with five 12-story towers, Castle Village, so arranged to allow some view of the Hudson for the earlier buildings. Paterno died in 1946.
Like some other co-ops of its day, Hudson View Gardens did not permit sales to Jews. Walter Gray of Mount Kisco, N.Y., who grew up in in the surrounding neighborhood in the 1930's and 40's, when it was mostly Jewish, said that "we didn't exactly cry when they lost their unobstructed river views." Mr. Dolkart said the restriction barring Jews fell in the 1960's.
In 1991, he said, the co-op began a major exterior-restoration program to stop leaks in over 100 apartments. Carl Goedecke, a past president of the co-op and head of the building committee, would not provide the precise cost of the program but said it was "in the millions." Crews from Kay Construction are replacing roof slate, copper gutters and the half-timbering, and repointing and painting the stucco panels.
The most ambitious of the original services, such as the post office and the barber shop, are gone, but there is still a nursery, playground and garden.
The co-op also retains a gardener, Barry Turner, and the central area is now a leafy wash of grasses and shrubs in yellow, green, silver and orange, with occasional bright red berries.
Hikari Hathaway, a sales agent with Simone Song Properties, a firm specializing in Hudson View Gardens, said a two-bedroom apartment is now for sale for $149,000, with a monthly maintenance of $741.
Mr. Dolkart, who had lived at 92d Street and Amsterdam Avenue before he moved, now tells his acquaintances: "I live in paradise. When you come home at night you open the windows and it starts to rain, and you feel like you're in summer camp. It's the greatest hidden treasure in New York."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Interior courtyard and driveway of Hudson View Gardens in 1926. (Avery Library, courtesy of Andrew Dolkart); The co-op complex is nearing completion of a restoration begun in 1991. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 
Map of Fort Washington showing the location of Hudson View Gardens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available REAL ESTATE (90%); SUBURBS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); LAND SUBDIVISION (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



389 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
After Home Ownership, 'Home Keepership' Is Key

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN

 BODY:
THOUSANDS of Long Island homeowners lose their houses to foreclosure each year, even though the region's unemployment rate of 4 percent is the lowest it has been since 1988.
Moreover, housing experts warn, mortgage delinquencies could get worse. They blame the easy availability of consumer credit, home equity loans that place a second mortgage on a house, the cut in salary that often occurs when people are forced to change jobs and the fact that more families with marginal incomes now qualify for mortgages under various programs designed to increase home ownership. 
 Lenders require buyers who apply for low-down-payment mortgages and loans that allow a high ratio of debt to income to receive pre-purchase counseling before they can qualify for such a loan. But post-purchase advice on how to budget or how to deal with a job loss or other crises is not a requirement. Job loss, illness, and divorce are the three main reasons people fall behind.
Recent Government figures show that home ownership is at a record high, with 66 percent of households now owning their own homes, said Jim Morgo, the president of the Long Island Housing Partnership, a nonprofit housing group in Hauppauge. He estimated that the rate of home ownership on Long Island was now close to 75 percent.
But helping buyers achieve home ownership is only half the story, he added. "Even though there is a boom in the local economy, and even though we have the highest rate of home ownership ever among low- and moderate-income people, we have to guard against the underside of home ownership and that is foreclosure," he said.
(In a foreclosure proceeding, the lender gets a court judgment for nonpayment of the mortgage. A court-appointed referee then auctions off the property.)
Last Monday, a conference on the foreclosure problem held in Melville brought together nonprofit groups, bankers and others in the real estate industry to discuss possible solutions.
The conference, called "Keeping the Dream," was co-sponsored by the Long Island Housing Partnership and Representative Rick A. Lazio, a Babylon Republican who chairs the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity.
"The irony of it is that the American dream can become a nightmare for homeowners if they don't take the proper steps to deal with problems either before they happen or once they happen," Mr. Lazio said. "The people that are involved in housing have to be aware of that and what needs to be done is to develop local partnerships to work on implementing the strategies that are out there in a collaborative way."
LOANS going through foreclosure are at their highest level in 10 years, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, a trade group based in Washington. A survey of 22 million loans found that 1.08 percent were in foreclosure on June 30, 1997, compared to 0.96 percent in June 1987. In New York State the percentage rose over the same period from 0.46 to 1.65 percent.
New foreclosure actions, referred to as lis pendens, are on the increase, according to Atlantic Foreclosure Research in New Hyde Park. In 1995 there were 3,345 such filings in Nassau and Suffolk; in 1996 there were 3,426, and by Oct. 31 this year there were already 3,473.
Members of the housing industry say those numbers could be sharply reduced if homeowners sought counseling help as soon as they experienced financial difficulties.
"What we call 'home keepership' is becoming much more of an issue, and to eliminate future foreclosures we need educated consumers," said Andrew Thaw, president of the New York Society of Mortgage Professionals, which includes banks, mortgage bankers and others involved with the homebuying process among its members.
Nobody wins when a home is foreclosed on, said Lesley A. Wainwright, senior vice president at Chase Manhattan Bank. "Our interest is to help people attain the American dream, so we want to keep them in that house and do whatever we can to make sure that happens," he said.
Nonprofit housing groups like the Housing Partnership provide counseling for a minor fee or at no charge and can often negotiate a workout with a lender if a homeowner comes in for help before the situation reaches a crisis point.
Diane Patrizio, a counselor for the Housing Partnership, noted that many homeowners in trouble were people who bought their houses in the last year and a half, and who now cannot handle the payments. Very often, she said, a family qualifies for a loan only by getting a parent or other family member to co-sign the mortgage note.
The reality is that the parent is not going to step in when the family falls behind on its mortgage payments, she said.
And many people wait far too long to get help, she added. "If they are two months behind, we can call the mortgage company and try to work something out, but many people call us when they are six months behind and the house is going up for auction. At that point, I have to advise them, 'Get an attorney.' "
Lowering the interest rate on a mortgage to reduce monthly payments and make them more affordable is just one of the many strategies lenders can use to help a homeowner, said Michael A. Quinn, senior vice president of credit loss management at Fannie Mae. The publicly traded company is the nation's largest source of funds for home mortgages.
"Foreclosure is the last thing anyone wants," Mr. Quinn said. "What we want is for everyone who has a problem to have a shot at working it out."
FORECLOSURES represent only 0.5 to 0.6 percent of mortgages invested in by Fannie Mae, which last year did a total business volume of $211 billion worth of loans on single-family houses from lenders that originated them, Mr. Quinn said. Because the company has a number of workout options available, only about 50 percent of loans on which there are delinquencies ever reach the foreclosure stage, Mr. Quinn said.
Under new guidelines announced by Fannie Mae in September, companies that service its loans will identify those homeowners with past-due payments who are the most at risk and will work with them on resolving problems rather than spending resources on those likely to resume payments on their own.
Mr. Quinn said the idea was "to focus on people who need help the most early in the process, so that you can save a lot more people from foreclosure."
In a typical workout situation, the interest rate on a $62,250 mortgage was reduced from 11.375 percent to 8.5 percent resulting in a reduction on interest and principal payments from $638.35 monthly to $499.97 monthly.
Past due payments of $2,600 were added to the principal amount and the mortgage term was extended to pay for them.
Under another type of workout, Fannie Mae and the homeowner enter a written agreement under which monthly mortgage payments are suspended or reduced for a specific period to allow the borrower enough time to recover from a financial setback.
OTHER strategies include allowing a new buyer to take over the mortgage -- thereby making a sale easier -- or allowing the homeowner to voluntarily sign over the deed to satisfy the mortgage, avoid foreclosure and preserve his or her credit standing.
Homeowners whose mortgages are insured by the Federal Housing Administration, an agency of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, used to be able to negotiate a workout directly with H.U.D.
Under guidelines adopted last year, they are now referred back to their lenders, who in turn refer them to a H.U.D.-approved housing counseling agency that can advise them on what options are available.
Under a new policy, the F.H.A. also can pay for arrears on a delinquent mortgage to encourage a lender to restructure the loan. The amount paid by the F.H.A. is added on as an interest-free second mortgage which the homeowner must repay. Homeowners may call (800) 569-4287 for more information on counseling.
"We have been educating purchasers at the front end, and now we are educating the homeowners and the lending industry in terms of what can be done to help people keep their houses," said Juan V. Bautista, director of the single-family housing division at H.U.D.'s New York office.
Jonathan E. Zimmer, executive director of Action Housing, a nonprofit housing advocacy group in Pittsburgh, who was among the speakers at last week's conference on foreclosures, said new options might include programs similar to one developed by Pennsylvania.
The program provides state loans to homeowners who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own and who face foreclosure as a result.
Adopted in 1983, the program has helped almost 20,000 families save their homes, Mr. Zimmer said in a telephone interview.
"This is not a grant program, it's not a handout," he said. "It's a loan program that helps people re-establish themselves and rebuild their lives."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Rick A. Lazio, left, with Jim Morgo, president of the Long Island Housing Partnership. Mr. Lazio and the Partnership sponsored a Hauppauge conference on foreclosures. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW HYDE PARK LEASING CORP (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); DISMISSALS (76%); AUCTIONS (75%); SECOND MORTGAGES (74%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



390 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2045 words

HEADLINE: SHOPPING AROUND;
A Retail State of Mind

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
FOR some it is compulsion, the need to possess yet one more thing. For many, it is clear-cut purpose, an essential item for home or work. And for others, it is a way to pass the time on a rainy day, or maybe just a cloudy one.
Whatever the reason, New Jersey is a state of highly motivated consumers who shop hard and shop often. They spend tens of billions a year -- about $77 billion last year, up from about $74 billion the year before -- on cars, groceries, clothes, home furnishings, gasoline, building materials, you name it. 
 New Jersey consumers have the second-highest per-capita income in the country, after Connecticut. And their households average more than $53,000 a year in buying power, according to Market Statistics, a New York company that analyzes spending data.
New Jersey, marketing analysts say, is brimming with ideal retail customers. The population is diverse -- essentially a racial and ethnic mirror of national census data -- comparatively affluent, well-educated and densely packed into a small geographic area. There is more retail spending per square foot in New Jersey than in any other state.
While California, Texas and Florida dominate domestic retailing by sheer size alone, New Jersey is America itself. The New Jersey consumer is the typical American consumer, happily following market trends that have made the United States, from coast to coast, a country that drives, eats and wears pretty much the same things.
New Jersey is the near-perfect retail petri dish, where retailers and marketers can study trends and fine-tune strategies. "New Jersey is probably at the leading edge of where the rest of the nation is going." says Dr. James. W. Hughes, an economist who is dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University,
People in New Jersey have less time to shop and are spending more money in "big box" discount stores like Wal-mart and "category killers" like Home Depot and Sports Authority, which seek to dominate their particular niche, offering more housewares or athletic gear than can be found in a traditional department store.
These megastores are sprouting rapidly around the state, offering longer hours and lower prices and perpetually stocked shelves thanks to some of the most advanced high-tech inventory control systems.
In New Jersey, a largely suburban state where pedestrians often seem to be in short supply, driving patterns have a heavy influence on where people shop. Window shopping in New Jersey is what you do in Home Depot in the aisle between lumber and aluminum siding.
To avoid traffic, potential shoppers are apt to drive in one direction but not the other, analysts say, which is why it sometimes makes sense for retailers to have a store on either side of the same road, the way gas stations often do.
And though it sometimes seems as if there are more malls than the state can accommodate, there is constant planning for expansions and new construction, including the Virginia-based Mills Corporation's desire to build the state's largest mall in the Meadowlands. But over-building, the experts say, is a real-estate issue and not a major concern for retailers.
Like malls across the country, existing malls here, many built in the 1950's, 60's and 70's, are adding more entertainment attractions and services to draw customers and to fight competition from other malls and from the new "big box" power centers, like one in Woodbridge that includes a Caldor, an Office Max, a PetsMart and a Shop-Rite.
The next trend that retail forecasters expect to see is the start of a megastore die-off in super-saturated markets.
"The number of power centers and category killers is growing so fast, somebody is going to have to assume the role of carnage on the retail landscape" said Dr. Hughes of Rutgers. "We are going to have big box busts. How many super pet stores can you have in one market area?"
At the same time that the big boxes and their big parking lots are being constructed on the outskirts of many New Jersey towns, local downtowns throughout the state are experiencing something of a renaissance.
Places like Morristown, Red Bank, Summit and Cranford have created downtown improvement districts, which allow municipalities to collect a special tax used to revive and support the business district.
Many of these towns are attracting small businesses that would never generate enough cash flow to survive in a mall but can flourish in a downtown setting with cheaper rents and loyal, local customer base -- second-hand book shops, for example, antique stores or clothing boutiques.
"Essentially you find that the towns that are attracting retail are the towns that are managed much like malls," says Beth Peterson, the executive director of Downtown New Jersey, an association of downtowns based in Summit.
"They provide things like the mall does, security, easy parking, marketing, beautification, all the things that shoppers have come to expect from a mall," she said. "They tend to provide the same kinds of things in terms of other entertainment like the malls do, concerts and crafts fairs and local events for kids that bring parents and grandparents. And they create traffic not unlike the malls."
There is little question that retailers, at every level, love the state of New Jersey.
In all, there are about 20,000 retailers operating some 50,000 establishments. They employ 575,000 people and generate $7 billion in sales taxes in New Jersey, according to the National Retail Federation in Washington and Melanie Willoughby, the president of the New Jersey Retail Merchants Association in Trenton.
In 1996, there were 1,131 shopping centers in New Jersey with 154.6 million square feet of leasable retail space, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers, which is located in New York and defines shopping centers by eight different categories depending on their size.
They range from neighborhood centers with between 30,000 and 150,000 square feet of retail space to power centers with between 250,000 and 600,000 square feet to super-regional centers with more than 800,000 square feet.
Each month last year, according to the council, about 5.6 million adults shopped at the centers in New Jersey. And construction began last year on 20 more shopping centers in New Jersey with a total of 1.4 million square feet of leasable space.
"A lot of retailers want to do business here," said Ms. Willoughby, whose organization represents 1,400 retailers and who points to the rapid expansion of Wal-Mart, Target and Home Depot as the latest sign of the state's market appeal. "They rapidly expanded here because of the value that they are able to receive. New Jersey is a mecca for retailers because you have more disposable income."
The rise of the category killer, the revival of the downtown, all are functions of a continuing conflict that is one of the major driving forces in modern American retailing: a love-hate relationship between the consumer and consumerism.
Shopping, like driving, is a way of life in New Jersey. It is also a pastime, a fall-back activity, like watching television. Whether people enjoy or despise it, however, is an unresolvable point of debate.
"People definitely like to shop," said Hazam Peralto, a 16-year-old from Cliffside Park who works after school at a Gap store in the Garden State Plaza. "Usually people will come into the mall saying they're looking for something specific and they'll leave with 50 extra items. They'll come for leisure time, for entertainment. 'We're bored, let's go to the mall. Let's shop.' "
Surveys of shoppers, however, show something else.
"People basically find that shopping is a chore," says Kurt Barnard, a consultant and president of Barnard's Retail Trend Report based in Scotch Plains. "It's a real chore. They do it because they have to. They need things. But they want to get it over with fast. Very few people today will tell you shopping is a source of personal satisfaction and happiness."
Both sentiments are valid, analysts say, and these contradictory notions -- that on the one hand people love to shop in New Jersey and on the other, people in New Jersey hate to shop -- are a key to understanding shoppers and shopping in this state and across the country.
"You are talking about retailing," Mr. Barnard said, feigning exasperation. "Whether in New Jersey or Arkansas, it makes no difference, what you need is not so much an economist but a sociologist, a psychologist, because really we are dealing with shifts in social attitudes, with shifts in life styles."
Those shifts include the predominance of two-income families and a vast decrease in the amount of time that the primary shopper (overwhelmingly the woman, studies show) in the family can spend instores.
But if you have to shop (and who doesn't?), New Jersey is a better place than most.
To start, the variety of stores is virtually boundless. On the high end, for example, is the Mall at Short Hills, with anchor stores that include Saks Fifth Avenue, Bloomingdale's and Neiman Marcus.
On the discount end, Wal-Mart, K-Mart, Caldor, Bradlee, Marshalls, Target have numerous locations throughout the state, not to mention the newer warehouse club stores like Price-Costco or BJ's Wholesale club and a host of stores with mid-range prices.
New Jersey's 6 percent sales tax is equal to Pennsylvania's and New Jersey has no tax on most clothing, which draws out-of-town shoppers from neighboring states, especially across the Hudson from New York City, which has an 8.25 percent sales tax on retail purchases.
According to the state Department of Travel and Tourism, visitors made 134.1 million day trips and 37.3 million overnight trips to New Jersey last year and made $5.7 billion in retail purchases.
One drawback for people who live in the state has been the ever-worsening traffic and parking situation. An unwillingness by shoppers to spend time on clogged roadways has hurt the enclosed regional shopping malls, experts say.
"First you have to drive to the mall," explained Kurt Barnard, the retail analyst. "Then, you have a lot of problems finding a parking space, then you have to fight your way into the mall. Getting back out later on can also be a daunting experience in terms of finding the car where you left it. You finally fight your way in the mall and what greets you? Well, hundreds of stores, many of which look exactly alike. You don't have time to deal with all of this."
The big box, category killers -- electronics stores like Nobody Beats the Wiz or Circuit City, book stores like Borders or Barnes & Noble -- tend to be found in clusters but often in separate buildings with their own parking lots.
"You drive in, it's a short walk to the store," said Dr. Hughes of Rutgers. "You buy what you want, get out, get home and get on with your life."
But all over New Jersey, from the Garden State Plaza in Paramus to the Cherry Hill Mall, from the Target store in May's Landing to the Wal-Mart in Clinton people are shopping and not all of them are moving at a frantic pace.
"It was raining out," said Anthony Vicidomini, who was with his fiancee, Heather Rogers, at the Home Depot on Mount Pleasant Avenue in Dover last Sunday afternoon. "We just wanted to get out for a while." They had driven about 45 minutes from their home in Sussex and also planned to go to a nearby Sears and a Price-Costco.
In their shopping cart, they had a pot to replant an overgrown cactus and a big bag of bird seed and they were looking at garage doors. Visiting a megastore made the drive worth it, said Mr. Vicidomini, 30 school custodian.
"It's worth it, if you are going to save 50 bucks," he explained. "Travel a little, pay three or four dollars in gas."
Christina Bowman, 76, of East Stroudsberg, Pa., had crossed the border at the other side of the state to shop at the Rockaway Townsquare Mall. Mrs. Bowman, a Brooklyn native, said she and her daughter Judy Alfieri, 53, were doing early Christmas shopping and had come to Rockaway in search of excitement and a greater variety of stores. "This is where you belong," she said. "This is where it's at. We come to Jersey, we feel alive."

GRAPHIC: Drawings. (pgs. 1 & 6)(Jane Sanders)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MARKET STATISTICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TRENDS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (88%); HOME CENTERS (88%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); GAS STATIONS (75%); ETHNICITY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); CENSUS (70%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



391 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: SHOPPING AROUND: RENEWAL;
By Helping People Do More Than Shop, Local Merchants Find Ways to Prosper

BYLINE: By CARRIE BUDOFF

DATELINE: RED BANK

 BODY:
For 151 years, Clayton & Magee, a family-run haberdashery in Red Bank's downtown shopping district, supplied businessmen with some of the finest custom-made suits, silk shirts and woolen trousers in central New Jersey. When other men's clothiers in this quaint town along the Navesink River closed because of competition from a nearby mall, Clayton & Magee stood firm and barely altered its format.
But times have changed, and so has the business of dressing men and boys in a downtown retail district. Don Magee, who runs the store with his 80-year-old father, recently decided to sell off most (but not all) of the inventory to make room for pottery, hand-blown glass, books and funky furniture. Red Bank now has a "life style store," as Mr. Magee calls it, for men. 
 Men's clothiers were once the mainstays of Main Street, along with tailors and barbershops with the striped poles standing guard outside the door. But the demand for formal business attire has dropped off in recent years, as more people show up for work dressed in khaki pants and denim shirts from the Gap. Mr. Magee's decision to alter his store's focus is indicative of what many merchants are doing to survive without having to leave downtown.
"We are doing well, but not as well as we once did," said Mr. Magee, 47. "Downtowns are evolving into entertainment centers. In order to become part of that market, we have to be more fun. We are changing to adapt to the times."
Before the 1960's, each downtown in New Jersey served the shopping needs of an entire region. The upscale stores of Summit attracted customers from the affluent northeast portion of Union County, until the Mall at Short Hills was built. And Red Bank pulled in business from all of Monmouth County, but the Monmouth Mall in 1960 stole much of the traffic from the shop owners along Broad Street, the town's commercial spine.
"Downtowns were defeated in the regional retail wars of the 1960's, said Dr. James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. "They have had to adapt and reinvent themselves, away from pure retail to a mix of festivals, art galleries, restaurants and theaters."
Downtowns are serving interests much wider i than just shopping, and that is allowing them not only to survive but also to compete with the regional malls, Dr. Hughes said.
Main Street is now the place for summertime jazz festivalss, New Year's Eve celebrations and spring flower shows. From May until December, Red Bank is host to 28 special events, ranging from a health fair to a 1950's flashback weekend with Studebakers and Elvis sightings.
Summit sponsors about eight festivals a year, and is looking to do more, said Joseph A. Steiner, president of the Suburban Chambers of Commerce and director of the Summit special improvement district.
"With as busy as people are these days, they need to get their shopping done and get in their socializing and entertainment all in the same place," said Carol Felker Kaufman, a professor of marketing at the Rutgers School of Business in Camden. "If a town can combine those things, that makes it fairly attractive."
Shop owners are also going beyond just selling products to entertaining their customers. Lace Silhouettes Lingerie here holds monthly make-over nights, psychic readings and afternoon teas. The store competes with a Victoria's Secret one mile south in The Grove, an upscale strip mall. But Anne Quinn, who owns Lace Silhouettes, said the special events keep her customers coming back.
"We can't sit back and wait for people to come," said Ms. Quinn, 43. "We have to catch their interest."
Red Bank, once called Dead Bank by dispirited residents, is experiencing a rebirth after hitting rock bottom in the late 1980's, when 30 percent of the town's 350 storefronts were vacant.
"There were years and years of deferred maintenance," said Tracy Challenger, director of the River Center, which is what Red Bank now calls its shopping district. "The infrastructure was in such a tremendous state of disrepair. The whole town was in a complete downward spiral."
Then in 1990 a local lawyer ran for Mayor on a platform pegged to improving Red Bank's shopping district and won. The Mayor, Edward J. McKenna Jr., 47, held public meetings so residents and shop owners could air their grievances. He made the borough government more business friendly by dismissing any zoning or planning board member who did not share his vision for Red Bank. Potential business owners can now obtain site approval in one day, and their operating permit the next day.
The town became a special improvement district in March 1991, which is similar in structure to a mall management office. The River Center operates with a director and a 30-member board of property owners and business representatives.
It is responsible for marketing, coordinating special programs, recruiting new businesses and awarding grants to merchants who want to beautify the facades of their shops. To stabilize the tax base, the downtown businesses pay 28 cents per $100 of assessed valuation, or about $1,000 a year, to underwrite the River Center programs. Now just three retail rental spaces are available, and Red Bank was recently dubbed the "hippest town" in the state by New Jersey Monthly magazine. (That phrase graces nearly every promotional item produced by the River Center.)
The approach that Red Bank is taking to keep its downtown economically viable is more aggressive than that of Summit, a town filled with people who commute into New York City each day to work. Although it has experienced low points just like most other downtowns, especially after the Mall at Short Hills was built, residents, whose median household income tops $73,000, have supported Summit's upscale stores.
Despite the relatively steady success Summit has experienced, a study of the business district commissioned by Summit Downtown and released last month pointed out some areas of concern. It stated that parking is limited and several large storefronts are vacant. More than half the store owners said business is declining, and 40 percent said they have considered relocating in the past three years.
A $5.5 million parking garage is being built to remedy the parking crunch, Mr. Steiner said. And there are plans to enliven the streetscape by extending the sidewalks for outdoor cafes and planting trees along the street. But until these improvements are made, Mr. Steiner said, Summit shop owners will continuing doing what has allowed them to endure the growth of malls and superstores: out-service their competitors.
That is why Deborah T. Mahoney, 37, fills her prescriptions at Rogers Pharmacy and buys soy milk from Nature's Market. She returns at night with her husband, Michael, and their 5-year-old daughter for dinner and a film at the five-screen theater, which opened in July in the basement of a former five-and-dime store.
"The downtown was one of the reasons why we moved here," said Mrs. Mahoney, who came to Summit in 1993. "We go into these shops and we get to know a familiar face."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The building that houses Jack's Music Store recently underwent major overhaul, as Red Bank's downtown has rebounded. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Buying Power" lists total retail sales and consumer expenditure figures in New Jersey during 1996. (Source: Market Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: RED BANK MANUFACTURING CO LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MEN'S CLOTHING (91%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (91%); RETAILERS (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); MEN (78%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); BARBER SHOPS (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



392 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 7; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: SHOPPING AROUND: SUBURBAN STRIP;
From Bowling Alley to Shopping Center as Times and Economics Change

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: LIVINGSTON

 BODY:
Birthday parties. Roller skating. Disco and rock-and-roll. From 1967 to 1986, these were the ingredients that made the Livingston Roller Rink the only place a child growing up in this bedroom community in Essex County wanted to go to celebrate a birthday, bar mitzvah or other special event.
Now, a scant decade after the roller rink closed, the site at 615 South Livingston Avenue has become a different magnet altogether: a strip mall with a dance studio, a photo-processing shop, a personal-fitness store, a nail salon and more. 
 "This place has changed and changed and changed," said Ann Lippy, whose family owns Fran Lippy Jewelers in the strip mall and whose children used to have their birthday parties at the rink.
To examine the history of 615 South Livingston Avenue is to go on an archeological dig, through layers of demographic changes and municipal planning or zoning issues.
It is a look, too, at a larger phenomenon: the thousands of strip malls lining New Jersey roads. Not the Route 46's, Route 10's or Route 1's, but the smaller arteries that often function as commercial spines for communities without downtowns.
"What's so vivid about the strip mall is that it is a visible struggle of a community as it tries to adapt to suburban sprawl," said Thomas Wright, director of the New Jersey office of the Regional Plan Association. "As a community struggles to identify itself and define itself, people can look to the strip mall -- what is it like? What does it offer? How has it changed? -- because it reflects us better than any poll would."
No one keeps tabs on many strip malls there are in the state, partly because there is little consensus on how to define the term, said Patrick O'Keefe, executive vice president of the New Jersey Builders Association. But what is clear is that strip malls became ascendant in the 1950's, an outgrowth of the boom in suburbanization, molded by land-use regulations, road planning and community impulses.
The strip mall has always been a very packaged product, said Robert W. Burchell, professor of urban planning at the Center for Urban Policy Research at Rutgers University.
In years past, a typical strip mall might contain a coin laundry, a bakery, a butcher, a liquor store, a uniform shop. Today, the laundry has become a dry-cleaning operation, the bakery a bagel shop, the liquor store a coffee bar, the uniform shop an upscale boutique for women's clothing.
And driving it all is a simple principle: convenience.
"The key to the strip mall is that it has to be close, and it has to have very good parking," Mr. Burchell said. "It has to give you what anyone who lives in the suburbs would want to get in their car and drive five minutes to."
The strip mall at 615 South Livingston Avenue -- which does not have a formal name and is referred to as "615" by the owner -- is, in some respects, different from the traditional strip mall in that it did not start out as rectangular block of stores lining a major thoroughfare.
In other ways, though, 615 South Livingston Avenue is similar to other small strip malls around the state. One, it exists as one of several shopping hubs in a town that has no downtown. Two, it cannot rely on window-shoppers, since sidewalks are an afterthought. And three, it has to compete with nearby malls (Livingston and Short Hills) and big-box retailers (Home Depot, Sports Authority and Comp USA).
"I think any retail space along Livingston Avenue is trying to find that chemistry where whatever they're selling is going to attract people to come in," said Charles Tahaney, the township manager. "It's a constant creative battle to compete with the mall."
Forty years ago, the roller skating rink didn't exist at all. It was a wooded area, stocked with pheasants, rabbits and deer, said Robert Goeckel, 78, who lives on East Harrison Place, right around the corner. It was much the same throughout the rest of the township: in 1959, 44.6 percent of Livingston's 8,960 acres was vacant. (In 1975, by contrast, that number had shriveled to 13.8 percent.)
In the late 1950's, 615 South Livingston Avenue became an official address, home to the Livingston Lanes bowling alley. With a barrel-shaped roof and 24,000 square feet, the bowling alley housed about 16 lanes and had a bowling league, according to the local weekly paper, The West Essex Tribune. But the place never did that well, Mr. Goeckel recalled, even after it added a business in which people operated miniature cars via remote control.
The bowling alley closed in 1967, replaced by the Livingston Roller Rink and its 90-by-180-foot floor made of Northern Michigan hardrock maple, said Marvin Facher, one of the former rink owners.
For years, it was a successful place, site of as many as 20 birthday parties a weekend and regularly staging roller-skating competitions. But in the 1980's, the rink ran into two major problems, Mr. Facher said: liability insurance was becoming hard to obtain, and the rink was attracting a rowdier crowd .
In 1986, the rink closed. And at first, the new owners, Slater Companies, brought in Finders Keepers, a large clothing store specializing in off-the-rack items, in keeping with the push in the 1980's for large retailers. But that store folded. Then Strawberry's, another big retailer of women's clothing, gave it a whirl, but that, too, proved unsuccessful. As a result, the owners decided to start carving up the space to put in smaller tenants that relied more on service and a homespun feel.
"It was a matter of survival," said Fred Slater, president of Slater Companies, located in Livingston. "You do what you have to do."
There was still turnover, to be sure. Palmer Video. Today's Teen. A carpet store. A specialty gift shop. All came and went, said Michele Sandler, owner of Michele's Dance Studio, which has been at the strip mall for more than five years.
But the strip mall has become much more stable in recent years, catering to Livingston's changing demographics: younger professional families, with children. In addition, Mr. Slater managed to add more parking to the back of the mall.
Now, the mix includes Michele's Dance Studio, Villari's Karate, Great Golf Learning Center, Donna's Kids & Co. (an arts and crafts business), Computer Training Service, Bob Levine Shoes, How Fit (personal training), Fran Lippy Jewelers, Lovely Nails, In Vision Eyecare and A.S.A.P. 30-Minute Photo. One store, most recently occupied by a retailer that sold skateboards and Rollerblades, remains vacant.
The direction of the strip mall mirrors the one desired by the township, which has been trying to beautify Livingston's shopping districts and promote local merchants in the face of ever-present competition from the mall and other businesses, said Eleonore K. Cohen, a Township Council member and former mayor.
"What I have found is that the stores that need walk-in people off the street, they don't seem to last, but the stores that are word-of-mouth, we're doing fine," Ms. Sandler said. "We're really neighborhood businesses. We depend on our neighbors, and our neighbors depend on us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The arched roof of "615" in Livingston hints of its origins, but over four decades the building has evolved into a strip mall. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); UNIFORM STORES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); CITIES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); RETAIL BAKERIES (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); BAKERIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (75%); BOWLING CENTERS (74%); ZONING (73%); DANCE EDUCATION (70%); PHOTOFINISHING SERVICES (70%); NAIL SALONS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); ARCHAEOLOGY (68%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (60%); 

PERSON: THOMAS J WRIGHT (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



393 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 3; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY;
Selling to the Man in the Gray Flannel Suit and the Lady of the House

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
JAMES DEAN had just been killed in a car crash in Hollywood. In South Jersey, a news report on a local civic group began: "Pictures of the atom bomb tests in Nevada were shown as a feature of the meeting of the Moorestown Rotary Club Thursday."
In Manhattan, Walter Winchell giggled in his syndicated column: "Swedish movie censors permit their films to show bare-breasted dolls. (Yumpin' Yimminy!)" 
 And in East Orange, B. Altman's department store was advertising men's rayon sport shirts, $3.95 apiece.
It was Oct. 1, 1955. This particular date has been chosen to reflect on advertising for two reasons. First, even then, daily papers grew fat with seasonal advertising starting in October. And 1955, one decade after the end of World War II, was the year when the modern suburban consumer economy found its first real traction.
Viewed from 40 years later, ads that once burbled with hyperbole come into focus with a patina of irony.
In 1955, "The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit," Sloan Wilson's anxious novel about 1950's organization-man conformity, hit the best-seller list. On Oct. 1, Robert Hall, the discount clothier, was offering "Wool flannel suits (which have the $40 and more look) -- $29.95."
The Stetson company also had an advertised special that subtly evoked male insecurity: "The Skyrider men's hat! For comfort and compliments! The look of success . . . the habit of command! $12.95."
In 1955, Newark, Elizabeth and even Camden had major department stores that filled newspapers with ads to sell furnishings and engineer desires for a phenomenon that would eventually shutter their own downtown display windows: the vast, just-beginning middle-class migration from the core cities to the suburbs.
J. C. Penney's had a sofa and two chairs with custom slipcovers on sale for $69. Lit Brothers, announcing the opening of a store in Camden, had a seven-piece living room suite for $295. For $199.95 more, you could add an Admiral 24-inch television.
Nobody was selling radios, which hadn't yet become widely transistorized, portable and thus appealing to young people. Even so, newspapers were still petulant enough about the annoyance of television to print daily radio listings prominently above the television listings.
On the night of Oct. 1, one television highlight was the season premiere of "The Honeymooners," with a show that featured a skit about Ralph's buying the Kramdens' first television set, to keep up with the Joneses. (Make that the Nortons.)
Keeping up was advertising's unrelenting message in 1955. Perhaps reflecting that, consumer debt had shot up by 55 percent in just two years -- mostly attributable to automobile loans and newly popular department store revolving-credit accounts.
Car dealers crowed about status as much as performance. Mercury dealers of New Jersey had ads on Oct. 1 that extolled "The Big Mercury," with its V-8 engine as well as its "distinctive new grille."
"From blocks away you can tell it's a Mercury," they said. "There's no mistaking this proud beauty!"
A few pages later, Sinclair gasoline promoted a new additive that sounded as if it would propel that new Mercury to the moon. "Power-X!" roared Sinclair. "It's power-primed," the ad said, with "the same fuel used in 500,000-horsepower rockets."
"To the moon," of course, was where the bumptious Ralph Kramden routinely threatened to send his long-suffering wife, Alice -- always getting a hearty laugh in the process.
As hall monitor of the exploding consumer culture, 1955 advertising talked to women in a voice that insisted their proper place was in the home, submitting to the male breadwinner.
"Make housework easy, without nagging backache. Get Doan's Pills today," advised ads that appeared in what were then known as the women's pages. Nearby, a big ad for soap powder depicted a beaming mother sagely advising her small daughter while they sorted the laundry: "The men who make automatic washers prescribe All."
Women actually looking for jobs turned to classified-ad sections that were still segregated by sex: "Help Wanted: Female." In 1955, "fountain girl" and secretary jobs were ample for women. For males, salesmen, machinists and Linotype operators were in demand.
With the baby boom at full throttle in 1955, advertising strongly reflected the idea that a woman should manage the house, bear and raise the children, prop up her husband socially and still maintain the sexual allure of a Hollywood starlet. Advertising thus manipulated a pandemic of body-weight insecurity among American women. (From 1939 to 1955, the average woman's dress size had shrunk by four sizes). Weight-loss centers (not to mention amphetamine drug prescriptions) proliferated.
"For your health and figure" cooed Slenderize, a weight center in Union. Membership was $10.50 a month -- when $75 a week was considered a good middle-class salary, and a three-bedroom ranch house on a newly developed tract in North Jersey could be bought for about $12,000.
With a birth rate "approaching India's" by the mid-1950's, William Manchester wrote in "The Glory and the Dream," women represented only 35 percent of American college students -- a smaller percentage than before World War II. And two-thirds of these dropped out before graduation -- many to marry. (In the 1950's, the average age at which women married dropped from 22 to under 20.)
Ah, you say, but at least it was cheaper to run a household then. In 1955, Acme supermarkets in New Jersey advertised large eggs at 69 cents a dozen. Chicken of the Sea chunk light tuna was 51 cents for a 6.5-ounce can. The A. & P. had ground beef at three pounds for $1.
Last week, Acme supermarkets in North Jersey were selling a dozen large eggs for $1.49. Chicken of the Sea chunk light tuna (now in a downsized 6-ounce can) was 89 cents. And an A. & P. in Montclair had ground beef for at $1.39 a pound.
Taking inflation into account, a tuna fish sandwich is a whole lot cheaper than it was in 1955.
On the other hand, that $12,000 ranch house now costs more than $200,000, and both spouses work full time to pay for it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hot wheels in the Eisenhower era: From the J. Walter Thompson Archives, an ad for a 1955 Thunderbird.
 
Drawing (Jane Sanders)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: J C PENNEY CUSTOM DECORATING (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available RETAILERS (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); FILM (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); SUBURBS (73%); BESTSELLERS (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (68%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (65%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (51%); 

PERSON: ROBERT HALL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



394 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 14; Page 6; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST HARLEM;
Two Visions Compete for Struggling La Marqueta

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII 

 BODY:
During its heyday, La Marqueta, once known for its wide selection of Puerto Rican products, was a bustling shopping complex of 400 vendors that stretched five blocks on Park Avenue from 111th Street to 116th Street underneath the Metro-North viaduct. But since the 1970's, business has declined, and many attempts to revive it have failed. Today, only 20 vendors operate in a blocklong building between 114th and 115th Streets, one of the four remaining indoor buildings. Neither the renovation of that building nor a newly constructed outdoor plaza could lure customers.
Now two developers have proposed new plans to increase the market's visibility. But their sharply different visions have caused many East Harlem leaders to strongly embrace one developer over the other. And one, the Local Development Corporation Del Barrio, a nonprofit organization in East Harlem, has accused the city's Economic Development Corporation, which owns and operates the complex, of playing favorites by refusing to listen to its proposal for an entertainment complex. 
 "The city has not met with us," Eddie Baca, the executive director, said. "We don't want any promises. We just want to be heard."
Mr. Baca's plan includes a branch of Jimmy's Bronx Cafe, which is a trendy restaurant and nightclub near Yankee Stadium, and an ethnic-food court (with Hispanic, Chinese and Italian food) and a comedy club, both to be developed by Jimmy's. The plan also envisions a shopping center, an outdoor stage and a community center. Mr. Baca said the plan would also include a movie theater across the street from La Marqueta, on the west side of Park Avenue at 116th Street, and parking spots.
The other developer, Manuel Areces, who has worked in various facets of the grocery business for many years, has a simpler plan. He said that it involved only one building, known as Building 3 and situated between 113th and 114th Streets, and that he wanted to restore its old warehouse style.
And adding to the traditional Puerto Rican products, Mr. Areces said he would also offer products from South America and Central America to attract the Mexican and other immigrants who have settled in East Harlem. He said he presented the proposal to the city in the summer and that he did not have immediate plans for the other buildings.
Charles Millard, the president of the Economic Development Corporation, would not comment on either plan except to say that he was open to long-term proposals for La Marqueta.
"We are very much interested in having proposals for the other buildings," he said of the three vacant buildings.
Mr. Areces's plan stokes feelings of nostalgia among many in East Harlem, but they say that it might compete with existing grocery stores and that Mr. Baca's plan is more practical because it would not only provide family entertainment but also would attract tourists.
"La Marqueta was special because it used to be the only place you could find certain Puerto Rican products," Harry Rodriguez, chairman of Community Board 11, said. "Now, every bodega and Korean grocery carry these things. We need an entertainment complex because right now there isn't anyplace where you can take your family and have a nice dinner."
But Mr. Areces said his line of products would be unique and would not pose any threats to local businesses.
"We're going to provide our customers what they can't find in the other places," Mr. Areces said. JANE H. LII

GRAPHIC: Photos: Much of the once-bustling La Marqueta, top, below the Metro-North tracks, is now vacant. Eddie Baca, above, is one of those with a idea on how to revitalize it. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (76%); SOUTH AMERICA (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; EAST HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (76%); SOUTH AMERICA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LA MARQUETA (NYC); FOOD RESTAURANTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); TRENDS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); 

PERSON: LII, JANE H; BACA, EDDIE; ARECES, MANUEL

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



395 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
At a Family Castle, a Bridge Over a Financial Moat

BYLINE: By PERRY GARFINKEL 

 BODY:
SOMETIMES, the good news is also bad. How else to describe inheriting a 70-room, 12th-century castle in the heart of the Tyrolean Alps?
For one American couple, it was good news, because the castle is a national historic monument, includes an 800-year-old watchtower and is a storehouse of not only Austrian history but also of fond family memories. 
 But it was also bad news, because, along with the castle, the couple inherited a monumental financial drain. One roof repair bill alone totaled several hundred thousand dollars, and the Austrian Government was threatening to put a lien on the property if the necessary repairs were not made.
Should the couple keep the property and quickly go broke? Or unload it and deprive descendants of the chance to literally call their home a castle?
Faced with this choice, Christopher Kump and Margaret Fox figured out how to turn the potential albatross into a cash cow -- or at least how to cover enough costs to keep the castle in the family. They opened the castle, in Reith im Alpbachtal, Austria, as a bed-and-breakfast.
While the case may seem extreme -- how many people have a castle in their past or future? -- it speaks to anyone who receives a gift with more sentimental than financial value. In such cases the heart, not the head, may rule. And, in the end, the heart may even prove the wiser financial adviser.
Mr. Kump, 36, and Ms. Fox, 45, are chefs and co-owners of Cafe Beaujolais, a well-known restaurant she opened in 1977 in Mendocino, Calif. The Austrian castle, known as Schloss Matzen ("schloss" is German for castle), is a rambling, enormous, but somehow cozy building with secret passageways, two dungeons and a Gothic chapel. About 30 minutes east of Innsbruck by car, it has a sweeping view of the Inn Valley.
THE family history: Mr. Kump's grandfather, Ernest Kump, a prominent California architect of Austrian descent, bought the castle 40 years ago for $80,000 -- a deal even by 1957 standards.
In 1983, to save his family from paying high inheritance taxes, the senior Mr. Kump transferred ownership to a foundation of which he and his wife were beneficiaries. The foundation was based in Liechtenstein, a principality that offers generous tax breaks on inheritances. In 1994, with his health failing, he gave beneficiary rights to his son Peter, who had founded Peter Kump's New York Cooking School and helped establish the James Beard Foundation.
After Peter and Carolyn Kump divorced in 1965, he and Christopher spent many summers at the castle and took frequent food-themed excursions throughout Europe.
"Some of my best memories of time spent with my dad are right here," he said in an interview at the castle. "That's one of the major reasons I have such a strong emotional attachment and commitment to making this work."
In 1995, at age 57, Peter Kump died of liver cancer, leaving Christopher to make real his father's dream of turning the castle into a high-end inn and restaurant. Unfortunately, Peter Kump also left behind a pile of contractors' bills. Not only did the roof need repair but an original estimate of $200,000 came in at more than $500,000.
Christopher Kump sat down to evaluate his options with the family's lawyer, Jerry Cohen, of Weiss & Company in Manhattan. But Mr. Cohen was not encouraging.
"We debated whether it could be converted into an economically viable project or whether it was worth anything at all," Mr. Cohen said. "My conclusion was I wouldn't tackle it. It would be dropping money into a black hole."
Among the factors that made Mr. Cohen cautious were "an intimidating" heating bill -- an estimated $6,000 for this year -- and the fact that Austrian laws governing national monuments could change at any time.
Richard Peskin, an estate planning lawyer in Manhattan who specializes in foreign investment properties, questioned "whether Chris has inherited anything at all" because the castle is ultimately owned by a foundation. This, he said, could work to Mr. Kump's advantage. "With a nonprofit charitable foundation, the family is entitled to the profits but is not liable for losses," Mr. Peskin said.
Mr. Kump and Ms. Fox knew that selling the castle immediately was not practical -- not only were there no potential buyers, but 40 percent of a sale would go to taxes. But they thought that if they could get it up and running as a business, their chances of selling, if necessary, would be improved.
"I spent one sleepless night playing out the numbers," Ms. Fox said. "They didn't look great, but what really motivated me to go ahead with this scheme anyway was seeing how much the castle meant to Chris."
Mr. Kump said the project was "a chance to make my father's dream come true and possibly leave something quite incredible for our daughter." The daughter, Celeste, now 8 months old, is the beneficiary of the Liechtenstein foundation.
To make a go of it, they have had to cut corners and improvise. For roof and other repairs -- to walls, catwalks and radiators -- they borrowed about $600,000 in two mortgages from a bank in the nearby village of Brixlegg. They saved money by doing some painting and repair work themselves.
Since opening the bed-and-breakfast for part of the summer last year, the couple have alternated between spending one to two months in Austria and two months at home in Mendocino, running the cafe and a mail-order business, which together produce revenue of about $1.2 million a year. They pay an American couple $5,000 a month to serve as full-time managers and hosts at the castle in their absence.
Last month, they ended their first full season and plan to reopen in January for their first two-month winter season. Rates for rooms and suites range from $165 to $250, including a breakfast of Austrian meats, eggs, cheeses, pastries and breads. Mr. Kump estimated that room revenue for the summer season was about $36,000.
To build revenue, they offered guided tours of the castle, generating almost $11,000 this past season. Renting out parts of the castle for fashion shows, conferences and weddings was less successful, losing about $3,800 after start-up expenses.
Over the summer, a group of local supporters helped raise restoration money by organizing a program of cultural events and tours at the castle. Branches of the Austrian Government are helping to subsidize a new roof for the tower, which will be turned into a museum for local artifacts.
Ms. Fox has a talent for marketing and publicity. "The idea was to get as much exposure for as little expenditure as possible," she said. The largest expense was for advertising in the The New Yorker; under a special rate, they bought four one-inch display ads for the price of three -- a total of $3,237. The ads have generated about 25 bookings so far, she said.
Along with the usual methods of access to a business -- a World Wide Web site, an E-mail address, and a toll-free phone number -- Ms. Fox has sought other opportunities. She offered free nights at the castle as part of an Oktoberfest promotion by LTU, the German airline.
In Mendocino, she contributed five free nights at the castle -- to which American Airlines added free business-class air fare -- to a winner of a fund-raising raffle to benefit the Mendocino Cancer Resource Center. The couple also promotes the castle to Cafe Beaujolais diners by distributing brochures and featuring recipes that Mr. Kump picked up in Austria.
Ms. Fox joked that she's been thinking of pitching an idea to produce a PBS special called "This Old Schloss."
Mr. Kump said he was not yet sure whether he would be able to realize his father's dream of a gourmet restaurant in the castle. "We don't expect this place to be a source of real profits," he said. "We'd be totally satisfied if we can just pay the bills and divide our time between here and California."
Ms. Fox added: "This is nothing but a win-win situation to us. If I had listened to financial advisers when I took on the Mendocino restaurant, I never would have gone into it, and my life would be immeasurably poorer."

GRAPHIC: Photos: When Margaret Fox and Christopher Kump of California (with daughter, Celeste) inherited a 12th-century castle in the Austrian Alps, they turned it into a bed-and-breakfast to offset expenses. (Photographs by Gunther Thoni/Anzenbergr for The New York Times)
 
Map of Austria shows location of Reith im Alpbachtal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); EUROPE (72%); GERMANY (53%); 

STATE: TYROL, AUSTRIA (92%); ALPS (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRIA; AUSTRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); EUROPE (72%); GERMANY (53%); TYROL, AUSTRIA (92%); ALPS (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; BED-AND-BREAKFAST LODGINGS; FINANCES BED & BREAKFAST INNS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MOUNTAINS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); FAMILY (76%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); ESTATE TAX (67%); INTERVIEWS (60%); 

PERSON: GARFINKEL, PERRY; FOX, MARGARET; KUMP, CHRISTOPHER

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



396 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 14; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BROOKLYN UP CLOSE;
Concern Grows on Where Trash Will Go After Fresh Kills

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
For Brooklyn residents, particularly those living in Red Hook, Greenpoint and Williamsburg, the closing of the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island in 2001 looms like a giant headache -- a 13,000-ton headache, to be exact.
That is how much household waste the city will have to dispose of elsewhere every day, and people in areas that have taken commercial garbage for years are worried that residential trash will be sent their way, too. 
 At a City Council hearing on Wednesday, community activists testified about the effect commercial-waste transfer stations have had on their neighborhoods and the implications of even more truckloads of trash in those areas.
For Brooklynites, the anxiety level was especially high. Civic activists and the Brooklyn Borough President, Howard Golden, said that they had obtained information that six sites were being considered along the borough's waterfront -- in Red Hook, Greenpoint, Williamsburg and Sunset Park -- where residential garbage would be processed before being sent out of the city. Brooklyn is already home to 33 of the city's 55 commercial-waste transfer stations.
John McGettrick, the co-chairman of the Red Hook Civic Association, said Red Hook had successfully fought to close more than a dozen transfer stations since the 1980's. "After all of these years of fighting to revitalize the neighborhood, to have it come back at us once again is stunning," he said.
City officials said such fears are premature, because while the city plans to send away the waste now dumped at Fresh Kills, it has not yet determined where that garbage will be processed. Deputy Mayor Randy Mastro said that, ideally, the marine transfer stations where the trash is now processed before being shipped by barge to Fresh Kills would continue to be used. That, he said, would mean there would be no need for new land transfer stations.
He said the city is reviewing 13 proposals from private companies on how they could dispose of residential waste and use the marine transfer stations.
But Mr. Mastro said he could not discuss the proposals until the city has a serious interest in pursuing one because they contain confidential financial information. Some community activists expressed concern that by the time any proposal was made public, their input would be meaningless.
City officials conceded that if the marine transfer stations cannot be used, new land transfer stations would have to be built or existing ones expanded -- and that could only occur in areas zoned for manufacturing. Brooklyn has more of those zones than any other borough, many of them along the waterfront in areas like Red Hook and Greenpoint. AMY WALDMAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; FRESH KILLS (NYC); RED HOOK (NYC); GREENPOINT (NYC); WILLIAMSBURG (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; LANDFILL LANDFILLS (90%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ZONING (76%); MAYORS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



397 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3738 words

HEADLINE: The Rabbi's Lost Tribe

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

 BODY:
RABBI KHAIMOV stood at his apartment window in Corona, Queens, salsa music rumbling from his radio. Upstairs, a dozen South Asian cab drivers came and went in shifts. One particular man likes to lift weights in the middle of the night, keeping the rabbi and his wife from sleeping.
"I cannot take this 'boom, boom,' " the rabbi said, pounding the ceiling with a broom handle. The noise returned like Morse code. "I must leave this place," he said, pulling at his chin. "Maybe I never should have come." 
 The rabbi peered across the alley, trying to catch the reflection of his upstairs neighbor in one of the windows. What he saw was himself: a stolid, middle-aged man with thick fists and an incisor capped in gold. He wore a black beret and his beard was freshly groomed, not with scissors, he said, which would be a sin, but with electric clippers. The shave made him look younger, but no less tired.
In the window, he saw a man nearing the end of the line. Amnun Khaimov, 42, was something of a wandering missionary in Uzbekistan during the early 90's. Most Jews had left when the Russians pulled out. But a few like Rabbi Khaimov stayed until Muslims chased them out with iron bars and clubs. He came to America two years ago to be near members of his family living in Brooklyn. By circumstances of his own choice, he has landed in this sagging, whitewashed apartment in Corona, living on a weekly $90 unemployment check and pinned down by Muslims, one of whom likes to lift weights at midnight.
"I left a good life in Brooklyn," he said into the window, his voice nasal, his syntax jagged. "A good apartment. I have job as a kosher inspector in Long Island and I make good money. I come here for the people, and now maybe there is nothing but this noise."
South Corona once had a small but vital Jewish presence. Built at the turn of the century by Russians who fled the czarist pogroms and then added to by the European refugees of World War II, the community once boasted four synagogues. The Italians came, and then Hispanic people and then the blacks. By the early 70's, the Jews abandoned the area for Long Island. Nothing remained of the old life but a bakery and one struggling synagogue.
Then the Jews started to trickle back. Again they spoke Russian, but this time they came from Central Asia and called themselves Bukharan, based on the name of their holy city, Bukhara, in southern Uzbekistan. In 1991, five Bukharan families moved to Lefrak City in Corona, a 40-acre housing complex north of Forest Hills. The word spread about Lefrak back home, and placement agencies in New York steered the Bukharans there. By 1995, there were 500 Jewish families in Lefrak City and hundreds more in nearby apartment buildings.
The first Bukharans who came to New York in the late 60's have become relatively prosperous, and some of the jewelers on 47th Street in Manhattan are Bukharans. Those who came in the 80's have learned English and managed to find jobs. But the late arrivals, who were managers and professors and tailors in the Soviet Union, have come to find scraps. Many of them are unemployed, on welfare and living in claustrophobic apartments in Queens.
A Russian bathhouse has sprung up in the neighborhood, but only "the rich," the Bukharans say, can afford the $15 to use it. The graffiti has changed from Spanish to Russian. Educated men now pick trash for their welfare benefits, and with the passing of each week, they begin to realize that their situation may be permanent. Their children have embraced MTV and have begun to play with drugs.
The rabbi and his wife, Esia, 42, moved near the most desperate people, in a six-floor building on Calloway Street named "Chateau." Here, most tenants are Bukharan Jews. There are also the Muslims and a salting of Hispanic and Indian immigrants. The place is woefully overcrowded; the walls are a flypaper yellow and two apartments have recently been set aflame.
"The children go wild," the rabbi said, limping around the kitchen table. "There is little hope and we must help."
The rabbi has not worked since a car ran him down the day after Passover last spring, splitting a pelvic bone and puncturing his lung. He and his wife live on small loans, his tax refund and the crumbs from his unemployment insurance.
The life of a beggared missionary has made his new wife ill. A slender, handsome woman who declines to shake hands with men, Esia Aronbaeva was born in Tajikistan. She came of age in Israel, studied computers and was taught to think for herself. She did not find ardor for the Torah until she came to New York to study design. Here she met Amnun Khaimov on a blind date, and was so impressed by his rectitude she married him three months later. Together they would do God's work.
She has taken to sleeping at the home of friends to avoid the noise. "I look like hell," she said. "I lost 10 pounds. I cannot sleep. I can't stand this building. But now we have no money to move."
A knock came to the door. Men began to arrive. Evening prayers are held in the rabbi's living room. They discussed welfare benefits and asked the rabbi if he has heard of any work. Soon there were 10 men, a minyan, enough to worship. The men sang songs and shouted.
Another rap at the door. It was the superintendent.
"You must leave," he commanded "or pay me $500 extra for the church."
The superintendent, Imer Lajqi, an Albanian, said his building has been out of control ever since the Bukharans moved in. "The kids run in gangs and burn the apartments," he said. "Things have gotten desperate here, and the Muslim and Hindus do not like the Jews. It's going to run into murder."
Now, it was late evening. A band of Jehovah's Witnesses were combing the halls for converts. A cloud of marijuana smoke hung over a group of Bukharan teen-agers dressed in crisp leather and chinos who watched them. They come in regular shifts: the Baptists on Sunday afternoon, the Jews for Jesus on Saturdays and the Jehovah's Witnesses arrive in the evenings.
The proselytizers are no longer strangers here, more like eccentric neighbors who come with the promise of a better life on Earth and the offer of free English classes. The teen-agers politely accepted the literature and one scratched his eyes red with reefer. In the lobby, an 8-year-old boy played unattended. The boy likes to practice his English.
"Where's your mother?" a stranger asked.
"I don't know. Where's yours, buddy?"
Outside, under the cold street lights, Sason Bodalov, 51, sang to himself: "I'm afraid the whole world will be my enemy."
Once a factory manager, Mr. Bodalov has no work, vodka on his breath and a bad case of diabetes. "Before, where I come from they say Jews drink blood, so I tell no one I am Jew," he said. "Before, I have many things for my family. Now, I have nothing. No good English, no work. My children work and maybe better for them."
He will not wash dishes or dig ditches for $5 an hour, he said, because he is too sick. "Anyway, I have a business degree from university," Mr. Bodalov said impassively. "For what?" He does not send his boys to a Jewish school, he said; he cannot afford it. He thinks public school is better anyway. He is sure they teach English there.
"Besides," he said. "American Jews think they are better."
He stood quietly smoking cheap cigarettes as the songs from the rabbi's apartment spilled out over the street. Mr. Bodalov heard them and wept.
 
Son of the Old Neighborhood Becomes the Father of the New
 It was a wind-swept Friday morning in Corona. Simhath Torah, the end of the yearly cycle of readings from the Bible. The bluster tore pieces of paint from the synagogue walls, scattering them like storm-borne leaves. Inside, the basement was cold because the congregation could not afford heat. The 300 Bukharan Jews were wrapped in shabby sweaters and shawls and mumbled through the Hebrew prayers they did not understand. "God help us," said an old woman from beneath her shawl. "There have been too many tears."
"Here, there is freedom of religion," Slavik Ilyazarov, 44, a recent immigrant, stuttered under the prayers. "This we are learning. We also learn that life is not so easy here."
Pointing first toward the sky and then toward the rabbi, Mr. Ilyazarov said, "He willing, we will."
The Bukharans place a good deal of faith in their charismatic rabbi, a son from the old neighborhood, a father of the new. He is a man who can be counted on to listen and procure small loans. At times, it seems that only he has the lining to stomach the despair. Perhaps he may deliver a home and decent life, they think.
Rabbi Khaimov is opinionated, rebellious and unyielding. Bukharans enjoy their music and expect their holy men to be accomplished tenors. The rabbi is tone deaf, and as the congregation raised its pitch to drown down his voice, he only sang louder.
This brought tittering from the women in the back of the synagogue. But this they could overlook. After all, they said, without the rabbi they would have no synagogue at all. It is a quizzical logic. There is little Jewish infrastructure on this side of the highway, and what support there is, it seems, the rabbi has managed to alienate. He publicly rails against the most prominent Bukharan rabbi in New York, calling him a thief.
What is more, the synagogue where they now pray has belonged for decades to a dwindling group of American Ashkenazic Jews, and Rabbi Khaimov has done little to salve this blistered relationship. When the Americans protested that the Bukharan rabbi and his people, who consider themselves Sephardic, were swarming into their temple and not paying for upkeep, he responded that their attitude was an abomination in the eyes of the Creator, Who would bring devastation upon them.
Who Rabbi Khaimov is is a matter of debate. He is, according to himself, a learned man with rabbinical bloodlines that stretch back over centuries. He is, according to critics, a confidence man with a story on his lips, a thumb in the Talmud and a hand on his wallet. Sifting through an epoch of allegory and actuality is a difficult exercise. Rabbi Khaimov explains it like this:
He was born in Bukhara in 1955. The grandson of a prominent spiritual leader there, he did not begin to study the Torah until he was 32. Like many in the Soviet Union, his religion was forbidden to him, but as he grew up, he knew he was Jewish, if only by name.
His grandfather was Rabbi Arikhay Khaimov, chief rabbi of the main synagogue on Central Naya Street in the Jewish quarter in Bukhara. It was 1938, when the men from Stalin's secret police came to destroy him. He and a wealthy Christian were accused of helping Jews escape to Palestine. It was true, said his son Khaim Khaimov, 72, who now attends his nephew's services.
During the next eight years. the rabbi's sons went to war, seven relatives disappeared and his wife died of a broken heart on April 12, 1945 -- the same day as Franklin Roosevelt -- Khaim Khaimov said. "The Ashkenazim came, too," he said. "They ran from Hitler and came to Bukhara. They prayed in the upstairs of the temple, the Sephardim down below."
Beyond the folklore and the songs, Amnun Khaimov learned little about Judaism. What he learned he taught himself: never drink and be ready to fight. "People never said in public that they were Jews because they were afraid to be beaten or have cigarettes put out on their woman's arm," he said over a plate of liver. He was never drunk and always ready. "I beat many Muslims with my fists."
Amnun Khaimov taught English at a local high school and sold photographs to tourists throughout his 20's and did not consider God until his own son was near death from pneumonia. When the boy's heart had failed, the father promised to follow Him if the boy lived. His son did live and the next morning, the father memorized the Hebrew alphabet.
In 1987, Amnun Khaimov started Hebrew studies at a fledgling Moscow rabbinical college, and left the Soviet Union two years later, to study under more knowledgeable men. He had vanished into Hungary and was not seen or heard from for nearly three years.
He said he was cloistered at the Countrywide Rabbinical Seminary in Budapest, where he studied Torah, the Hebrew language and ritual slaughtering. The monthly stipend was not enough to feed his wife and son and he sent them away. She eventually divorced him and moved to Israel. He stayed in Hungary, living on bread and salt.
Half-starved and skulking in the streets of Budapest, Rabbi Khaimov says he took a Russian passport to Bosnia on his summer sabbatical and enlisted in the Serbian Army. His job: comb the battlefields for the corpses of Serbian soldiers.
On his 47th day of active duty, as he was searching the woods for the missing leg of a corpse, Rabbi Khaimov said, he was attacked by a Muslim soldier. They struggled and he put a bayonet into the soldier's chest, but not before he took a blade in the back. There they lay, Muslim and Jew, their blood staining the Balkan mountains.
The future rabbi was paid $8,000 for his service (he said he refused to be paid in Deutsche marks) and was discharged. He returned to Hungary and finished his studies. In 1992, he was ordained a rabbi by the seminary.
When he returned to Uzbekistan, Rabbi Khaimov would find that most of the Jews had left and that there were few rabbis to tend to the small pockets of families who remained. He worked as a traveling crusader; first in Bukhara, then in Katta-Kurgan and finally in Navoi. He spent nearly a year in each city, working as a rabbi and kosher butcher. He taught the children. More importantly, he paid a dollar a week to anyone who would come to temple and pray.
Some of the rabbi's detractors call the war story a lie, a whisky-soaked tall tale. But the rabbi points to the scar on his back. As for the money from the war, people now living in New York remember.
"He saved the people,"said Alexander Aryev, 37, a tailor from Navoi. "Once there were 3,000 Jewish in my town. Then only 400 and no rabbi. No one knew how to cut the meat. Only he. Without him, we would starve."
 
What Does It Mean To Be a Rabbi, Exactly?
 While working as a ritual slaughterer and living in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, last year, Rabbi Khaimov was asked to become the spiritual leader of Lefrak City's 3,000 Bukharans at the complex's new Jewish center. After three months, saying they were fed up with the politics, he and his wife struck out on their own.
By all accounts of people attending services on Simhath Torah, Rabbi Khaimov is considered the steadying influence that has kept their tribe together.
"Some of us, we believe in God," Mr. Aryev said. "We have no place to go, but we know Khaimov. He will find the place."
What he found was the bronze and marble sanctuary of the Congregation Tifereth Israel synagogue on 109th Street and 54th Avenue in Corona, home to a dwindling congregation of Eastern European Jews who have prayed there since their fathers built it exactly 90 years ago. They, in turn, consider Rabbi Khaimov one part Rasputin, one part mountebank, with a beard full of oratory but little religious training.
"He is absolutely not a rabbi," said Irwin Goldstein, 66, who has been the cantor at the synagogue for eight years. "He is absolutely a shochet, a kosher butcher. But he doesn't know the Torah and he can't speak Hebrew. He ain't no rabbi."
Mr. Goldstein, who is Ashkenazic, said his congregation invited the Sephardim to come worship with them last March. Since then, Mr. Goldstein said, the rabbi's overwhelming presence, and followers, threatens to drown what remains of the Ashkenazic tradition at the synagogue. The Bukharan prayers are too long. The melodies of their songs are different. Their celebrations are more mystical and intertwined with Islamic tradition. This, he says, will never do.
More to the point, the old Americans suspect that the foreigners have their eyes on the main sanctuary and that they will be buried in the cellar.
"It's like he is a mercenary," Mr. Goldstein said. "He comes and tries to conquer and inflict their way of doing things."
For his part, the rabbi feels his claim to the synagogue is sanctioned by God. "Everything is built by Him," Rabbi Khaimov said. "Why they don't share? Crooked people never build straight things."
With time on his hands, the rabbi has taken to limping around the streets of Queens, in search of the children whom he heard were being attracted by the Christians.
The rabbi croaked in disgust as he stared into a Lutheran church in Briarwood. It was true what they said. The Jewish children and the old people were going to a minister there who taught them English from the New Testament.
"They don't even know what they're becoming," he said in a hangdog whisper.
He spoke with contempt of Yitzchak Yehoshua, the Chief Rabbi of the Bukharan Rabbinical Council of America, a powerful presence in New York. How can he see the faces of his people, smell the alcohol on their breath from his comfortable American home? He calls himself the chief? Rabbi Khaimov asked. Who lives among the people? Who understands their pain?
Rabbi Khaimov said his feud with the Chief Rabbi dates back to Bukhara, 1989, when Rabbi Yehoshua made a trip there to purchase Torah scrolls from Rabbi Khaimov's grandfather. When his grandfather refused, Rabbi Khaimov said, the brunt of Rabbi Yehoshua's anger fell to him. For his part, Rabbi Yehoshua confirms the story, but said he only wanted to take some of the scrolls out of Uzbekistan to preserve them. The Torahs have been disappearing, he said, fetching as much as $25,000 on the black market.
As for their relationship, the Chief Rabbi took the high road in describing Rabbi Khaimov as a decent man with leadership skills. In the next breath, however, he characterized him as a Russian with a strong Jewish identity but questionable Talmudic knowledge and flimsy credentials.
"I think he is a good butcher maybe, but he is no rabbi," Rabbi Yehoshua.
Rabbi Khaimov has what he says are ordination papers from the Countrywide Rabbinical Seminary in Budapest, a politically conservative school in Hungary that is recognized by the World Jewish Congress as a legitimate seminary.
Still, throwing salt on a powerful rabbi will not grow flowers.
 
After Prayers The Vodka Flows
 In the basement, on Simhath Torah, the celebration continued. The prayers took most of the morning. They were cursive and made longer as Rabbi Khaimov stopped to translate the Hebrew into Farsi, one of the Bukharans' languages.
Then the vodka flowed, the food served and the cigarettes lit. The small group of Ashkenazim who had prayed upstairs, stared through the basement windows.
Beneath the glass, two Bukharan men drank.
"There are no jobs, and everybody practically takes welfare," Sason Bodalov said. He wore a threadbare suit and had the haggard look of a man who has been driving all night.
"Yes, it is true," Boris Boruhov said. "But Smirnoff is good vodka."
"Of course," Mr. Bodalov said, his eyes shining like new coins, "But if I don't get some work soon, I'm going to die."
"How will you die?" Mr. Boruhov asked.
"I'll drown myself in the pool."
"You don't have a pool."
"Oh yes," Mr. Bodalov said. "That's right. Then I'll do it in vodka."
The men emptied their Dixie cups. Speeches were made by Jewish war veterans whom the Soviets claimed never existed. The women gossiped. And before the people walked home, they made a prayer for water. For a sign of rebirth.
That afternoon, the sky opened up and the rain fell for two days.
 
A Question of Identity
ABRAM ICARKHOV is an old man now, and Uzbekistan might as well be on the dark side of the moon. He thinks he will never see his hometown, Navoi, again or his big house, his garden with grapes and his three milk cows.
"I sold it all to come here, where all the people came," said Mr. Icarkhov, 68, a former cobbler with hands too worn to make any more shoes. He sold his estate for an enormous price, the equivalent of $10,000, in 1995. At least, it seemed like an enormous amount in post-Communist Uzbekistan, where a month's salary will buy two bottles of whisky.
But after Mr. Icarkhov arrived in the States, the money was gone in less than a year. He and his wife now get by through public assistance programs and help from their 30-year-old son, a dishwasher.
For many Bukharan Jews, who have their roots in the Central Asian republics of the former Soviet Union and identify with the city of Bukhara, the trip to America has ended in desperation.
No one knows for sure how many Jews lived in Uzbekistan before glasnost. The Soviet census of 1989 counted nearly 95,000, but the true number may have been twice that, said Nate Geller, director of cultural affairs for the National Conference on Soviet Jewry. "Many opted for the Russian nationality. To say you were a Jew meant you had no access to jobs."
And no one knows exactly how many Bukharans landed in Queens. Estimates range from 35,000 to 50,000, which is still more than the estimated 30,000 who have remained in Uzbekistan. So one latest chapter in the Diaspora is being written in central Queens.
The Bukharans are not typical refugees, said Manny Behar, executive director of the Queens Jewish Community Council, who estimates that 30 percent are unemployed. "Most have come with skills and education, but because they are the middle-aged who speak little English, opportunities for white-collar jobs are few," he said.
Moreover, although the Bukharans managed to hold on to their traditions during Soviet rule, they have come to realize that observing their traditions is not the same as observing Jewish law. Few understand Hebrew and the Torah, and so those who fled Muslim persecution have come to feel discriminated against by Orthodox Jews in America, they say.
"For decades, they thought they were observant," said Rabbi M. Mitchell Serels, director of Sephardic programs at Yeshiva University. "When they arrived here, they found that they were not. This is a blow to their Jewish identity, making them a minority within a minority."
In the scope of history, these problems are minor, Mr. Icarkhov said. After all, in America he can worship openly. "If I have to, I will crawl to the temple through the snow," he said. "I love God." CHARLIE LeDUFF

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rabbi Amnun Khaimov, center, and recent Jewish immigrants from Central Asia, in a synagogue in Corona, Queens. (pg. 1); HOME AS TEMPLE Rabbi Khaimov leads evening prayers in his living room. Below at far right, Congregation Tifereth Israel synagogue in Corona, where the Central Asian Jews are experiencing tension with the American Jews. (pg. 14); The rabbi and his wife, Esia Khaimov, at home. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. 15)
 
Chart: "Who the Rabbi Is"
NAME: Amnun Khaimov
AGE: 42:
BORN: In Bukhara, Uzbekistan
FOLLOWERS: Approximately several hundred Jews from Central Asia.
PHILOSOPHY: "In Russia, we were dead. We knew nothing about religion. The young generation laughed at us and it was a dark time. I thought there would be light in America. But now I see we must fight." (pg. 1)
 
Map of Queens showing the location of Congregation Tiffereth Isreal and of Rabbi Khaimov's apartment. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UZBEKISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UZBEKISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); RELIGION (87%); FAMILY (86%); WEIGHTLIFTING (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); REFUGEES (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



398 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
A Revival of Small Stocks: Big Rewards but More Risk

BYLINE: By ANN WOZENCRAFT 

 BODY:
WITH small companies in their sixth month of leading the market, investors need to realize that shopping for them is far different from shopping for the large outfits that had long set the pace on Wall Street.
And there may be many rookie shoppers out there, for the recent performance of small companies has been relatively very strong. The stocks of both large and small companies have been pummeled by the recent difficulties in Asia, of course, but even with the setbacks, the Russell 2000 index, which tracks small-capitalization stocks, has gained 8.7 percent since midyear. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is up only 4.2 percent in that time. 
 Analysts say small caps should keep outperforming the market for anywhere from a few to 18 months because of a strong economy, the capital-gains tax cut, a strong dollar -- which reduces the earnings of companies with overseas operations -- and other reasons. But whatever the period, the revival of long-ignored small stocks may underline their importance to a portfolio.
"Investors who don't have small-cap exposure are missing out on a big part of the equity market," said Claudia Mott, director of small-cap research at Prudential Securities. Small stocks represent roughly 10 to 12 percent of the value of all stocks.
But small caps, while better performers over the long run, are riskier than large caps. "Their stories aren't known, they're not as well-seasoned and they don't have the controls and reserves if the business slows down," said Thomas Maguire, fund manager for the Safeco Growth fund.
Moreover, analyst coverage of small caps is often minimal. While many analysts follow I.B.M., small companies may have only one analyst covering them, or none.
"You won't get a lot of help from your broker because many of these companies aren't on anyone's recommended buy list," said Gerald Perritt, president of Perritt Capital Management in Largo, Fla.
And because the press pays more attention to larger companies, small-cap investors often must use special publications. One source for small-cap newsletters is The Hulbert Financial Digest, which tracks the performance of many kinds of investment newsletters (888 485-2378, $59 a year).
If investors are to realize small companies' potential and ride out their volatility, they must also hold the stocks for a long time -- preferably five years or more.
"Most people do poorly investing in small stocks because they sell too soon," said Keith Mullins, a strategist at Smith Barney. "Those people in Seattle who had a good cup of coffee at Starbucks and sold when the stock doubled don't feel so smart now. In large stocks, though, valuation sensitivity is probably a very strong discipline."
But valuations are still important for small stocks.
One common rule, followed by Mr. Maguire, is to buy stocks only when their price-earnings multiples are appreciably lower than their expected earnings growth rates. If a company's earnings are growing at a 20 percent annual rate, he would like to pay no more than a 16 multiple for the stock. This strategy worked with Jackson Hewitt, a tax-preparation firm. Jackson Hewitt has an expected growth rate of 25 percent, while the stock had only a 12.5 multiple at the $21.25 price Mr. Maguire paid in July. It closed on Friday at $54.75.
Frank Reichel, manager of the Stratton Small Cap Yield fund, has advice on containing small-cap volatility: buy only stocks that pay a dividend. Last year, he paid $15.67 apiece for shares of Excel Industries, which makes car components. The stock, now at $18.75, pays an annual dividend of 2.7 percent. That assured income may have been comforting as the stock fell from $25 to $18 in September on the loss of some orders.
Given this volatility and the fact that small caps often make just one product, if any, Mr. Perritt also believes that 20 to 30 small caps are needed to equal the diversification one gets from 10 to 12 large stocks.
And avoid companies with much long-term debt, he advises. "The debt-free company can iron out its problems and get back in the growth mode," Mr. Perritt said. His Perritt Capital Growth fund invests only in companies with less than 30 percent of assets financed by debt.
Finally, Mr. Mullins said, it is important to understand a small company's finances. "If you're not willing to do a certain amount of number-crunching, you're probably better off going with a mutual fund," he said.
The top three small-cap mutual funds for the 12 months ended on Wednesday were Bridgeway Ultra Small Company (up 60.6 percent), State Street Research A Aurora (57.9 percent) and Safeco Growth, Mr. Maguire's fund (53.4 percent).

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Looking for the Little Guy"
These newsletters specialize in small-cap stocks. Returns on their model portfolios are for the 12 months ended Sept. 30.
 
BI RESEARCH
(203) 270-9244
www.biresearch.com
One-year subscription $95
12-month return +34.1%
 
CALIFORNIA TECHNOLOGY STOCK LETTER
(415) 726-8495
www.ctsl.com
One-year subscription$ 295
12-month return (Computer/Electronics Model Portfolio) +12.0%
 
INVESTORS INTELLIGENCE
(914) 632-0422
No Web page
One-year subscription $184
12-month return (Low-Priced Stock Portfolio) +24.3%
 
THE RED CHIP REVIEW
(503) 241-1265
www.redchip.com
One-year subscription $389
12-month return - 2.1%
 
THE TURNAROUND LETTER
(800) 468-3810
www.turnarounds.com
One-year subscription $127
12-month return
(Aggressive Portfolio) +39.2%
 
THE VALUE LINE INVESTMENT SURVEY -- EXPANDED EDITION
(800) 634-3583
www.valueline.com
One-year subscription $125
12-month return +10.6%
 
(Source: The Hulbert Financial Digest)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (72%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PERRITT CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (52%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (72%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); US DOLLAR (73%); TAX LAW (68%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (53%); 

PERSON: WOZENCRAFT, ANN MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



399 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: MGM Can't Fill Seats at Premiere of Kerkorian, the Sequel

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
KIRK KERKORIAN, the Las Vegas-based financier, should have learned by now. Some of his past dealings may make investors, even naive ones, very wary of buying a minority stake in a company in which he is running the show.
But hope springs eternal, and so Mr. Kerkorian, the 80-year-old billionaire who controls Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, had recently planned to offer 13 percent of the company to the public for as much as $23 a share. 
 Investor reaction was so weak, however, that Mr. Kerkorian had to buy 3.5 million of the 12.5 million shares himself. And yet the stock, which went public on Thursday at just $20 a share -- the bottom of the estimated price range -- closed at only $20.375 on Friday.
"It is a magnificent short sale," said Seth Glickenhaus of Glickenhaus & Company, an investment firm, in a sardonic reference to a strategy investors use when they expect a stock to decline.
There are clear reasons for the poor showing. Not only does MGM have nearly $800 million of debt and no prospects for profits over the next few years, but it is solely dependent on the volatile film business. And Goldman, Sachs, which had planned to be among the underwriters, pulled out within the last month.
But investors with long memories may have been scared off for another reason. Mr. Kerkorian is a master at selling and buying back assets; he has bought and sold pieces of MGM, and some other companies, so many times it is hard to keep track. And over the years, unhappy minority shareholders in several Kerkorian-controlled enterprises have fought to get better deals when he bid to get their stock back.
Indeed, the MGM offering looks very much like a deal that aroused investor acrimony in 1982. Mr. Kerkorian controlled MGM/UA Entertainment, a company that then included both MGM and the United Artists studios. Unable to pay off its $675 million of debt, it faced a cash squeeze. So Mr. Kerkorian offered the public 15 percent of a subsidiary called MGM/UA Home Entertainment, a home-video business, and sold the stake at $12 a share.
At that time, Sumner M. Redstone, who is now chairman of Viacom but was then a leading theater owner, bought roughly half the offering. Two years later, after the parent company had reduced its debt, Mr. Kerkorian made a formal offer to buy back the public shares with notes that had a face value of $28 but were actually valued at $22.
Mr. Redstone, a tough and litigious executive, challenged the offer in court, arguing that the price was too low. Ultimately, Mr. Kerkorian agreed to pay shareholders $28 in cash.
Then, in 1984, Mr. Kerkorian had to withdraw another offer related to MGM/UA -- a deal to buy the half of the company that he did not already own. Several shareholders had argued in lawsuits that his cash-and-note offer, which had a face value of $25 a share and a market value of about $17 a share, was too low.
True, shareholders linked to Mr. Kerkorian often make good money, but in two well-known cases it was less than he made. Western Airlines is one. Mr. Kerkorian began buying its stock in 1968, and in 1976 sold back a chunk of the stake for $30.3 million -- an 18 percent premium to the market price.
And in 1979, Mr. Kerkorian bought 25 percent of Columbia Pictures for about $20 a share. The stock was already on a roll and continued to go up. Soon, Mr. Kerkorian began rattling his saber and threatening a takeover. The company ultimately bought him out in 1980 -- at a 29 percent premium to the market price.
ONE close associate defended Mr. Kerkorian's actions in the Western Airlines and Columbia situations. In the 1980's, greenmail -- paying a potential acquirer a premium to the share price so he will abandon a takeover attempt -- was an acceptable business practice, the associate said.
Also, some institutional investors are willing to take a chance on Mr. Kerkorian anyway. As one longtime film executive put it, "They may not believe in the economics of MGM, but it is worth the bet," given Mr. Kerkorian's track record. And if he tries to buy back their stake or reconfigure the company, "institutional investors today are more inclined to be litigious and not willing to stand for being taken," the executive said.
Moreover, in some cases during the last decade Mr. Kerkorian and his co-investors have profited equally well. For example, he began buying stock in Chrysler in October to December 1990, at an average cost of $5 a share. On Friday the stock closed at $32.3125.
Mr. Kerkorian has made subsequent purchases of Chrysler stock, which raised his stake to 13.7 percent. But an investor who came on board when Mr. Kerkorian made his first purchases would have seen the shares rise 550 percent by now, compared with a 199 percent increase for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. And, as even the skeptical Mr. Glickenhaus concedes, pressure from Mr. Kerkorian led Chrysler to buy back more of its stock -- 20 percent since 1990 -- than it might have otherwise.
Another example: Mr. Kerkorian took MGM Grand, the casino company of which he owns 61.6 percent, public in February 1988 at $10 a share. The stock is now at $39.75, up 300 percent. That compares with the 271 percent increase of the S.& P. during that time.
"Generally, investors have done well following Kerkorian's moves," said Harold Vogel, who follows the gambling industry for Cowen & Company.
Mr. Kerkorian's longest-running investment, in MGM/UA, may prove the point most compellingly. He initially tendered for shares of MGM in July 1969 at prices as high as $42 a share. By 1986, after Mr. Kerkorian had split the company in two and sold off both pieces, an investor who had bought at the 1969 price would have had stock worth $308.46. That is a 623 percent gain, compared with 112 percent for the S.& P. in the same period.
But in the interim there were legal tangles with other shareholders over various issues. Investing with Mr. Kerkorian can be hugely profitable, but in some cases paying attention to his wheelings and dealings is a part-time job at least.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); VIA (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (88%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (85%); VIACOM INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEVADA, USA (88%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (68%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE; KERKORIAN, KIRK KIRK KERKORIAN (92%); SUMNER REDSTONE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997



400 of 750 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 16, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: The Saddam Hussein Problem

 BODY:
The world has a Saddam Hussein problem. To say it that way defines the threat that he represents to the biosphere, the envelope of air and water that he proposes to infest with pestilences that respect no political boundaries. It also helps frame the reality that another round of American military action may be needed to deal with a man who seems determined to be both a nuclear renegade and a transporter of timeless plagues.
There have been no inspections of Iraq's germ-warfare programs since Oct. 29. Its fermenters can prepare anthrax for weapons use in a matter of days. Given the right conditions, an airborne release of anthrax over a city could kill as many as 100,000 people. Friday's departure of the inspection force means the system of arms control imposed after the gulf war has lapsed, leaving Iraq's neighbors and the global community in a situation of intolerable vulnerability. 
 A new system has to be put in place as soon as possible. All week, President Clinton was properly cautious about exercising the most solemn duty of his office, which is to decide when to risk American lives in combat. He called Friday for a new regime of diplomatic pressures aimed at forcing Mr. Hussein back into compliance with United Nations inspection requirements. The principal hope for a peaceful resolution rests with the French, who are at last pressing Iraq's leader to end his defiance. We also urge the President to consider imposing a no-flight zone across Iraq, forcing Mr. Hussein to contemplate a grounded economy and loss of his aircraft as the price of noncompliance.
But it is hard to argue with those who think all such steps will fail because Mr. Hussein believes events are trending his way or because he wants to be hit as a way to rally his people and divide his enemies. The U.N. Security Council remains divided over endorsing further military action. Fortunately President Clinton has authority under previous U.N. resolutions to make sure that the terms of the gulf war cease-fire, including arms inspections, are enforced. If this last round of diplomacy fails, Mr. Clinton will be justified in going to the enforcement procedure of last resort, which is the use of military strikes at Iraqi ground targets.
This could take the form of retaliatory attacks if the Iraqis fire on the U-2 surveillance flights that could resume as early as today. Mr. Clinton can clearly get Congressional approval, as he should, for the heavier blows that will be possible when Navy and Air Force units are in position in the coming days. Over time, this page has endorsed such action with great reluctance. But the risk that Mr. Hussein is mad enough to unleash biological agents avoided by the century's worst villains is simply too great. The U.N. inspectors have to get back into Iraq, by force if necessary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ANTHRAX (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%); APPROVALS (65%); PEACE PROCESS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1997

 
