

201 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 3; Travel Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Q & A 

BYLINE:  By JANET PIORKO

 BODY:
 A Group on a Cruise

Q. I am planning to take a family group of around 30 on a week's cruise next January from San Diego to Cabo San Lucas, Puerto Vallarta and other ports in Mexico. Are there travel agencies specializing in such group bookings, or would I work through a regular retail travel agency? --N.S., La Jolla, Calif.

A. Any retail travel agency should be able to handle your group, according to Karen Bohning, a spokeswoman for the Cruise Lines International Association. You can search on the association's Web site at www.cruising.org for agencies with cruise expertise by geographical area. The agencies' listings indicate their specialties, including groups.
 Bob Pavon, a cruise specialist with Carefree Vacations in La Jolla who handles 8 to 10 groups a year, ranging in size from 20 to 120, said the extent of an agency's negotiating power usually depended on how much business it did with a given cruise line. "If the agency does more groups, they're going to have more clout," he said. 
 Cruise lines typically allow one free berth for a certain number of paying clients; with midpriced cruise lines, the number is generally one free for each 15 passengers paying full fare, according to Margaret Stein, another cruise specialist, who works with Travel Dynamics Group in La Jolla. For a deluxe ship, "it can be as low as one for five," she said.
 Groups have priority in dining room seating, Mr. Pavo said, generally getting their pick of early or late times. Ms. Stein said you can expect the line to give you a seating chart so you can organize your party into, say, three tables of 10.
 Other amenities you can request, according to both agents, include wine in everyone's cabin or a setup for a group photo with everyone getting a copy. Larger groups, say 50 or more, might get a cocktail party with open bar for an hour, Mr. Pavo said.
 He suggests booking as far in advance as possible; you can usually reserve a year ahead. "One, you get better pricing, because as the ship fills up the prices go up," he said. "And two, you have more time to get people into your group and get more amenities."
 One cruise that seems to match what you are looking for is aboard the Ryndam, a Holland America vessel sailing round trip from San Diego next Jan. 24 and calling at Cabo San Lucas, Mazatlan and Puerto Vallarta. Mr. Pavo cited a fare of $721.51 a person, double occupancy, for the seven-night itinerary, including port charges and fees, based on his agency's status as a premium preferred agency with the line.
 More information: Carefree Vacations, (800) 683-4074; Travel Dynamics Group, (858) 551-4000; Holland America: (877) 724-5425 or www.hollandamerica.com. 

Dogs Entering New Zealand

Q. We would like to go skiing in New Zealand this summer, but our Shih Tzu goes everywhere with us. Can dogs enter New Zealand without quarantine? -- Helen Fazio, Bridgewater, N.J.

A. No, dogs and cats traveling to New Zealand face a mandatory quarantine, according to Sally Aitken, technical adviser for Import Management at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in Wellington. And since the quarantine is for 30 days, it is doubtful that you would want to take your pet along.
 Moreover, the application procedure is quite complicated. The place to start is on the Web at www.maf.govt.nz/biosecurity/imports/animals/standards/index.htm, where you can check on the standards for various pets and countries, and find application forms. 
 You can also contact the Import Management Section, Animal Biosecurity Group, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Post Office Box 2526, Wellington, New Zealand; telephone (64-4) 498-9625, fax (64-4) 474-4132. 
 Four types of dogs (including crosses of these breeds) are not permitted into New Zealand at all: the American pit bull terrier, dogo Argentino, Japanese tosa and Brazilian fila.

Shipping Luggage

Q. I have been attending my World War II unit reunions for 20 years, but larger pieces of luggage are getting to be more than I can handle. Is there some economical way to ship ahead of time to the reunion hotel -- this year in San Jose, Calif. -- and back? I'm thinking of a foot locker weighing around 60 pounds packed. -- R.J. Janer, Brooklyn

A. UPS and FedEx are among the shippers that will handle such a request. (FedEx also ships luggage internationally, while UPS handles only items like golf clubs and skis internationally, according to Dan McMackin, UPS public relations manager.)
 UPS prefers suitcases to be boxed, Mr. McMackin said. (You can buy boxes at UPS locations or order them in bulk online; for example, a UPS authorized shipping outlet in Brooklyn called Postnet, (718) 852-0082, sells suitcase boxes 24 by 10 by 31 inches for $4.89.) If the luggage is not boxed, insurance covers only contents, not the luggage, which UPS considers the container. But with that one caveat, UPS agents said the company would ship the footlocker unboxed if you prefer. 
 It's a good idea to alert your hotel about the shipment and be sure there is a safe place to store it. Avoid packing anything that might be considered hazardous materials, like cologne, cigarette lighters or other flammable goods. You should put a shipping label inside the luggage in case the one outside is damaged or lost.
 To calculate the cost, you need the origin and destination ZIP code and the approximate dimensions and weight of the shipment. You can find worksheets on www.ups.com or www.fedex.com, or call UPS at (800) 742-5877 or FedEx at (800) 463-3339. 
 UPS quoted a charge of around $60 for a footlocker 30 by 16 by 16 inches and weighing 60 pounds if you have it picked up at your home. That rate is for UPS Ground service, which takes up to five business days, and includes a $5 charge for an unboxed item and $500 worth of insurance coverage.
 According to FedEx agents, you can't arrange a pickup at your home for Fedex Ground shipment; that is available only to businesses, not to residential customers. The least expensive shipment with at-home pickup would be a three-day FedEx Express; the company's agents quoted a cost of around $116 including $500 insurance. If you can take the footlocker to a FedEx location, agents said, the cost would be around $37 for a five-day FedEx Ground shipment. JANET PIORKO



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (91%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



202 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
A Muscle-Flexing Euro On a Costlier Continent

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
TO the threat of terrorist attacks, the quavering American economy and the specter of SARS, add another troubling development for the tourism trade, especially in Europe: the dollar is plumbing historic lows against the euro.
 The dollar has been weakening against Europe's common currency for months, but the rate of decline has picked up precipitously in recent weeks, since the United States government signaled that it would tolerate a weaker dollar to help revive the American economy. 
The euro began last week trading at an exchange rate of $1.17, within a penny of where it began trading four years ago. Currency traders predict it could rise to $1.30 by next year. It had already risen nearly 7 percent against the dollar since May 1 and close to 30 percent in the last 12 months. 
 Simply put, Europe is almost one-third more expensive for American visitors than it was last summer.
 "It is getting to the point where people from the States visiting Europe will say, 'I paid $3 for a cup of coffee,"' said Urs Eberhard, director of the North American office of Switzerland Tourism.
 Although Switzerland still uses francs rather than euros, the euro is widely circulated there, and even the currencies of non-euro countries have risen strongly against the newly humbled dollar. The tricky question is how badly the weak dollar will affect American tourism in Europe. The number of Americans who visited Europe dropped 1.2 percent in February, from the same month last year, which was down sharply itself after 9/11, according to the European Travel Commission's most recent statistics. 
 But travel executives attribute that in large part to the war in Iraq and persistent fears of terrorism. The outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, has gutted tourism in Asia and hurt it everywhere else, including Europe, because some people fear contracting the virus on a plane.
 With such a confluence of negative forces, travel-industry executives said, the impact of a weak dollar is difficult to measure.
 "How do you separate it from all the other influences?" said Christian Fiederer, the senior vice president for sales and marketing at SRS World Hotels of Frankfurt, which operates 300 hotels in Europe and recorded a 15 percent decline in occupancy in April, compared with the previous year. "It's easy to distinguish something as dramatic as SARS. But the strong euro has been a gradual trend."
 Still, it has begun rippling through Europe's tourism industry. Accor, the giant French hotel chain, said the euro had contributed to its poor financial results in the first quarter. Accor's occupancy rate of 60.3 percent in Europe in March was down 2.1 percent from the comparable period last year. Visit Britain, the British government tourist organization, said arrivals from North America dropped 19 percent in March compared to the same month last year, and were 30 percent lower than in March 2000.
 The British pound has risen less sharply against the dollar than the euro, which means the cost of a weekend in London has not gone up as much as one in Paris. Visit Britain attributed the decline in visitors to the war, not the stronger pound, and it said it still hoped for a recovery this summer.
 Because many Americans put off their travel plans when war broke out in Iraq, Mr. Eberhard said, the travel industry was anticipating last-minute bookings from people now ready to venture overseas. The Swiss have joined with the tourist associations of Austria, Germany and Italy -- 3 of the 12 euro nations -- to capitalize on this by jointly promoting summer tours of the Alps. 
 They will begin advertising the deals in June for vacations in July and August. For example, a nine-night Best of the Alps trip, offered by Far & Wide of Englewood Cliffs, N.J., (877) 868-7257, www.farandwide.com, goes to Lucerne, Villars, Innsbruck, Munich and Salzburg, for $1,999 a person, double occupancy, with 16 meals and air fare from New York or Boston. 
 The war, and the political rift it opened across the Atlantic, has not ebbed entirely as a concern for travelers. "We get asked by Americans: 'Are we going to be welcome in Europe? Is it safe to travel in Europe?"' Mr. Eberhard said.
 Tourism executives in the United States can draw comfort from one trend: the same currency swings that make Europe expensive for Americans are making the United States cheaper for Europeans.
 Europe's largest tour operator, TUI of Germany, said it normally derived just 2 percent of its sales from Europeans going to the United States. Spain, where tens of millions of Europeans flock every summer, generates 40 percent of its revenue.
 But TUI's sales of tours to the United States from Germany are up 30 percent through April, compared with the same period last year, while its overall bookings are down 15 percent. 
 A company spokesman, Robin Zimmermann, said of the United States, "Food, drinks and other side costs are much more affordable now because of the strong euro." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); EURO (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); SARS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); LODGING (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TOURISM (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRENDS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); HOTEL CHAINS (65%) CURRENCY; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: SRS WORLD HOTELS (52%); ACCOR SA (51%)

TICKER: AC (PAR) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (52%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (51%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (51%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



203 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/770 and 778 Park Avenue, at 73rd Street; 
Fraternal-Twin Examples of East Side Superluxury

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
THE construction scaffolding around 778 Park Avenue these days distinguishes it from its fraternal twin across 73rd Street, 770 Park. Both superluxury buildings were designed by Rosario Candela, whom many consider the quintessential 1920's apartment house architect.
 The buildings, completed just as the 1920's construction boom was coming to an end, have neo-Georgian tops that seem to symbolize Park Avenue sophistication, even if the structures themselves did not satisfy one major critic. 
 In May 1929, only two days apart, two developers filed plans for completely separate buildings with designs by Candela on the western corners of 73rd and Park. The plan filed by Edgar A. Levy was for a 19-story building, soon to be known as 770 Park, which would consist of duplexes with varied layouts. 
The building to be developed by Charles Newmark, which was initially called 780 Park but was later changed to No. 778, was for an 18-story building of full-floor apartments. The cost was estimated at $5 million apiece, a high number in what was the high tide of Park Avenue luxury development.
No. 770, finished in September 1930, had 35 duplex apartments of from 7 to 15 rooms. They were displayed in advertisements declaring that "the town houses of 1930 have plenty of sunshine." Floor-to-ceiling windows in many of the rooms used for entertaining guests led to step-out balconies and offered a country-house quality. 
The typical duplex had a 16-by-24-foot dining room, a 20-by-30-foot living room and an 8-by-25-foot gallery. An article in The Real Estate Record and Guide noted an elegant touch: in place of the standard crisscross wire-reinforced glass, Candela specified polished plate glass with vertical wires every two inches. The garbage room had steam to clean out the residents' garbage buckets.
There were three entrances: one in front, for the residents; one in the basement, for deliverymen; and one at street level on the side of the building, for servants -- to "obviate the trouble that invariably arises when servants are compelled to go downstairs to the basement and use the delivery entrance," the Record and Guide noted.
At Newmark's building, the distinctive note was the size of the rooms permitted by the one-apartment-to-a-floor layout. One 16-room apartment had an 11-by-36-foot gallery, 6 bedrooms, 9 baths, 23 closets and a 32-by-21-foot living room. 
The buildings were competing against other luxury accommodations, including 1 Beekman Place, at East 49th Street; 10 Gracie Square, at East 84th Street; 895 Park Avenue, at 79th Street; and the San Remo, at Central Park West and 74th Street. But they were also in a race against time. The chill of the stock market crash of October 1929 would become a deep freeze by the end of 1930. 
No. 770 seems to have made it. It had some initial troubles, but it was quickly reorganized and gained a solid footing. But even though there were some co-op sales at Newmark's building in mid-1929, construction stopped in the summer of 1930.
The exterior had been finished, but when Newmark lost the building in early 1931, an account in The New York Times said that "the interior has never been completed." A new group of owners apparently completed the building and changed the address to No. 778 at this time; The Times noted that the prices had been reduced to between $68,000 and $144,000. It is not clear what the original prices were at either building.
The Times quoted an unidentified broker as saying optimistically that "the slate has been wiped clean, excess values have been eliminated, and there are not more than 7 or 8 percent of vacancies." But by December 1931, 778 Park Avenue had only four families.
Although Nos. 770 and 778 are now considered to be among the finest of Candela's works, the critic George Chappell, writing as "T-Square" in his "Skyline" column in The New Yorker, was not impressed. He considered the staggered, irregular window pattern on No. 770"as confusing and disturbing an arrangement of windows as one will find in a long day's walk."
"Between the changing openings and constantly changing wall spaces," he wrote, "there appears to be no system whatever in the design." 
Chappell said that at No. 778 there was "more repose in arrangement, less in detail," and concluded that "there is a distressing amount of half-baked architecture in New York, an architecture which seems to proclaim loudly a lack of the training necessary for fine work." 
The two buildings are different in many ways. No. 770 is more modernistic, with plain walls; No. 778 uses extensive quoining -- in which stone blocks are brought out at the corners -- and much more elaborate detailing. Even their rooftop towers are different: No. 770's is trim and smooth, No. 778's more robust, like a garden temple. But despite the differences, they share a basic form -- red brick with light-colored masonry detailing, with a rising tower -- and they seem far more kindred than other buildings of their type. Their coincidental placement across from each other emphasizes their similarities.
Early residents were a cross-section of the target market for such buildings. Cecil P. Stewart, a yachtsman and insurance company executive, had the 18th-and-19th-floor duplex apartment at No. 770 -- an apartment that included a solarium and a handball court. In 1934, another resident of No. 770, the theatrical producer Rowland Stebbins, invited a tenor at the Metropolitan Opera, Edward Johnson, to sing an aria from "Lohengrin" to a mix of guests that included Harold I. Pratt, son of a founder of Standard Oil; the publisher Ralph Pulitzer; and the conductor Walter Damrosch.
Tenants at No. 778 in those years included Thomas J. Watson, then president of International Business Machines, and Byron C. Foy, president of Chrysler's DeSoto division. 
In 1933, the socialite Veronica Balfe, who had a brief acting career under the name Sandra Shaw, was married at her home at No. 778 to avoid large crowds; her new husband was Gary Cooper. 
THE original plans to make Nos. 770 and 778 entirely co-op buildings fell through. Although some apartments were owned as co-ops, many 1930's ads offered apartments for lease. A 1935 ad for a 10-room apartment with six terraces at No. 778 said it was available at "at a really attractive rental," but did not specify the rent. 
By the late 1930's and the 1940's architectural changes were ratifying the economic ones -- the Cecil Stewart duplex was split into two apartments in 1944.
Andrew Alpern, who chronicles both buildings in his book "The New York Apartment Houses of Rosario Candela and James Carpenter" (Acanthus Press, 2002) said that in the 1931 foreclosure, No. 778 was sold for $2.1 million. These days, he said, apartments in the two buildings -- which are now all co-ops -- usually cost $5 million or more. One duplex apartment in No. 770 sold in 2001 for $10.5 million.
The construction scaffolding that now rings the limestone base of No. 778 is for standard exterior maintenance, according to Toni Hanson, a managing director at the managing agent, Insignia Residential Group.
Richard Lefever, president of Facade Maintenance Design, who is supervising the project, said that there are peculiarities in the building's setback design that create difficulties. Because of the irregular column layout on the upper floors, he said, there are "a lot of eccentric stresses that cause movement" and create cracks. 
Ms. Hanson said that the co-op board was considering cleaning the facade. Whether or not the facade is cleaned, the similarities these fraternal twins share will no doubt endure.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The building at 778 Park Avenue, above left, in 1945, and 770 Park Avenue in 1943. Many consider their architect, Rosario Candela, the quintessential 1920's apartment house designer. Both have neo-Georgian tops. (Photographs courtesy of Office for Metropolitan History) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%) HOUSING; COOPERATIVES 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER; CANDELA, ROSARIO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY; PARK AVENUE (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



204 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-8-03: WHAT THEY WERE THINKING; 
One Up, One Down

BYLINE:  By Abby Ellin 

 BODY:
 Eileen McGill and Ross Meyerson, Brooklyn
Meyerson (right): "Right after 9/11, I was forced to close my event marketing and entertainment business that had been very profitable for six years. For the past year, I have been trying to re-energize the same type of business under a new name. My wife's salary has been the sole means of support. We've been out to eat twice in the last year. We have no social life. Meanwhile my wife's career thrives. She is the head concierge at the Benjamin Hotel. She has been on national news shows. Still, she would rather not work at this point. Our daughter's about to go to kindergarten, and my wife's starting to feel she's missing her entire childhood."

McGill: "It takes two incomes to be a successful family here in New York. Even if one person is doing well in their career, you're still worried about your spouse and trying to pick up the slack at home so they can do what they do. One week, my job was really demanding, and it was like, who's more important -- the person who's trying to get something going or me who has a paying job? Ross ends up networking late, so he doesn't get home until 10 p.m., when I'm exhausted. I feel like I'm going to wake up and be 50. We thought about leaving town. We both want him to be able to support us. I could get a job anywhere, but it's more important that Ross get a job."

Howard Zimmerman and Charley Burch, Memphis
Zimmerman (left): "I started the first Web development company in Memphis in 1994. Early on, Charley worked for me. I sold it in 1998 to USWeb and was a paper dot-com millionaire. I was married, with a wife, kid, nice house, imported cars. The parent company went Chapter 11, and here I am in a divorce that Jerry Springer would get squeamish over. Three years ago I made about seven times what I made last year. I work for a global logistics company. I got Charley interested in the industry; he really got fired up. Now he's poised to do certain things, and I'm hoping to work for him."

Burch: "We have been really close friends since I was 11. The only thing that ever annoyed me was Howard's arrogance in regards to his ambition. He hired me to be a sales manager for Quest Interactive Media. The way I remember it, he left all of us behind because he got a $4 million offer from USWeb to buy only him out. He lost everything in the stock market a few years ago. How the tables turn. Howard still owes me $2,800 in back salary from 1995. What can I say? You have to stick by your friends even if they moan, bore you or owe you something."

T. J. Kniveton and Chad Norwood, San Francisco
Norwood (right): "It is very tough right now for programmers in the Bay Area. I have been unemployed since last September. T. J. and I met about three or four years ago. I worked at Intel and then joined a start-up. Then our company got into legal trouble, and the stock became worthless. All my paper went down the toilet. Before, I'd just buy clothes, drinks, go on weekend trips to L.A., snowboarding. Now I have about $20,000 in credit-card debt. I'm not too worried -- the A.P.R.'s average under 6 percent. What is it like watching T. J. do well? I am quite happy for him. I'm 31. He's 27. When I was T. J.'s age, I was doing just as well."

Kniveton: "It used to be when one of my friends would get laid off, everyone would network for that person. As more and more people got laid off, the support system crumbled, and it ended up like a war zone with lots of casualties in my personal circle. I work for Nokia as a senior research engineer. I own my loft. I've gotten bonuses of about 20 percent the past two years. I feel a little guilty because there's no reason that I should have a job and they don't. Sometimes I feel survivor's guilt."

Tom Currier and Luke Kaven, New York
Currier (left): "I'm a real-estate developer. I didn't think I would have a good year, but I've just finished construction on my fourth building. Since Luke has no place to stay when he is in New York, I'm letting him use the one remaining unit: a four-bedroom, three-bathroom duplex penthouse listed at $2.425 million. Luke and I hadn't heard from each other since we were kids. About five years ago, I tracked him down; it turned out he had a deep interest in jazz, and I always played in bands. The kind of capital that's required to do what he wants to do is a lot less than it takes to make a new building. So I'm trying to help him."

Kaven: "I started Smalls Records as a way to give voice to underrecognized and older artists. If not for favors from friends and family, I wouldn't have gotten by. Both Tom and his wife, Marcy, are very successful. By contrast, I don't see to my own practical needs enough. I seem to persist in the belief that if I give without regard for what I get in return, I will receive a just reward out of that. But while there have been abundant spiritual rewards, the financial rewards have sometimes not been sufficient."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eileen McGill and Ross Meyerson, Brooklyn (Doug DuBois); Howard Zimmerman and Charley Burch, Memphis (Mike Smith); T. J. Kniveton and Chad Norwood, San Francisco (Ed Kashi); Tom Currier and Luke Kaven, New York (Doug DuBois)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); EVENT MARKETING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); HOTEL STAFF (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (50%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



205 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-8-03: CRASH COURSE; 
Prospect Theory

BYLINE:  By Dirk Olin; Dirk Olin is national editor at The American Lawyer.

 BODY:
 From the infamous Dutch tulip hysteria of the 17th century to the Great Depression to the dot-com crash, wild bouts of speculation have occasionally inflated big fat financial bubbles that soaked investors when they burst. Daniel Kahneman, a professor at Princeton who was the first psychologist to win the Nobel in economics (which he was awarded last year for studies he conducted with Amos Tversky), has attributed market manias partly to investors' "illusion of control." Kahneman recently explained the basic weirdness of the dot-com bomb to The Financial Times: "A high percentage of investors knew it was a bubble and still invested because they thought they could get out in time." Why did so few heed the alarms? According to Kahneman's "prospect theory," most of us find losses roughly twice as painful as we find gains pleasurable. This radical precept subverts much of "utility theory," the longstanding economic doctrine that says we weigh gain and loss rationally. When combined with the reality that some market winners display the same recklessness as some victorious gamblers -- a phenomenon that Richard Thaler, an economist at the University of Chicago, calls "the house-money effect" -- the market is often revealed to be downright loony. Indeed, the findings of "behavioral finance" in recent years have increasingly challenged the fundamental rationality assumed by defenders of "efficient markets," those who believe Eugene Fama's famous dictum that prices "fully reflect available information." Fama, another economist from the University of Chicago, is saying that you can't get ahead of the market by building a clever model, because you can't predict the news that will affect prices. (As for the crazy players, Fama has contended that big-time rational arbitrageurs counterbalance them.) So, as stocks have shown some new life this spring, can you put your trust back in the market?

Thumbnail Economics
A fairly straight line of standard economic theory runs from the late 1700's to the 20th century. First came the "invisible hand" that Adam Smith said guided decision-making according to basic market logic. This was refined in the early 19th century by Jeremy Bentham into a philosophy of utilitarianism that assumed, among other things, that consumers knew what was best for themselves. John Maynard Keynes challenged some of that doctrine's underpinnings during the 1930's, when he compared market participants to viewers trying to guess the outcome of a beauty contest. Milton Friedman subsequently helped rescue rationalism during the post-World War II period, arguing that most market participants behave as if they had made rational calculations, even if they were not consciously making those calculations. In 1979, however, Kahneman and Tversky published a paper that included results from subjects who answered two comparative money problems. And their responses appeared to reveal systematic deviations from rationality: In problem No. 1, subjects were given an imaginary $1,000 and asked to choose between (a) a 50 percent chance to gain $1,000 and a 50 percent chance to gain nothing and (b) a sure gain of $500. In problem No. 2, subjects got $2,000 and were asked to choose between (a) a 50 percent chance to lose $1,000 and a 50 percent chance to lose nothing and (b) a sure loss of $500. The results? In the first problem 84 percent chose (b). In the second, 69 percent chose (a). What's odd here is that if the majority opt for the $1,500 of (b) in problem No. 1, the majority therefore ought to take the same $1,500 payout in answer (b) in the second problem. But instead the majority is willing to take the risk to try to "break even" when the problem is framed in terms of losses. Irrationally, people feel differently about losing than they do about gaining, even if either choice produces the same outcome.

Hedging the Theories, or Practical Advice
The Princeton economist Burton Malkiel, whose investing classic, "A Random Walk Down Wall Street," has just come out in its eighth edition, mostly touts efficient markets. Like Fama, he says he believes that prices tend to go up over time but without any discernible pattern that can be used to predict future movements. Unlike Fama, however, Malkiel concedes that bursts of market irrationality do occur, which is why he calls himself "a random walker with a crutch." "There are lots of good lessons to be taken from behavioral finance," Malkiel says. "But what it doesn't do is provide any kind of clear road map for cool sharp-penciled professionals to beat the market. For example, the existence and extent of bubbles are only discernible in retrospect."
Interestingly, irrational- and rational-market experts provide much the same advice for investors: buy into index funds that are pegged to broad swaths of the market rather than trying to play selected sectors. Then hold. You might expect that advice from the efficiency mavens, but how do the behaviorists -- who say you should be able to exploit the crazy market players -- square that conservative circle? "While behaviorists think that it is theoretically possible to beat the market," Richard Thaler says, "individual investors do not have the time or training to do that on their own, and finding superior skills among active mutual-fund managers is not easy, either. So a reasonable strategy to adopt is to settle for the average returns and low fees offered by index funds."
An existentialist corollary for your consideration. More than a few philosophers have sermonized that behaving as if an afterlife exists is beneficial to society in the here and now, even if the belief turns out to be unfounded. Now listen to Malkiel: "To the extent that the behaviorists are right, few if any could take those insights and beat the market. In other words, you ought to act as if the markets are efficient." 

Of Higher Interest
* Kahneman, D., and Tversky, A. "Prospect Theory: An Analysis of Decision Under Risk," Econometrica, Vol. 47, pp. 263-292 (1979).
* Malkiel, B.G. "A Random Walk Down Wall Street."
* Fama, E.F. "Market Efficiency, Long-Term Returns and Behavioral Finance," Journal of Financial Economics, Vol. 49, pp. 283-306 (1998).
* For less empirical market studies, on film, see also Oliver Stone's "Wall Street" and John Landis's "Trading Places."

Volatility vs. Craziness
From "The New Financial Order: Risk in the 21st Century," by Robert J. Shiller, Princeton University Press, 2003

"Despite the volatility we observe in speculative markets, no one should conclude from any of my or others' research on financial markets that these markets are totally crazy. I have stressed only that the aggregate stock market in the United States in the last century has been driven primarily by psychology and fads, that it has shown massive excess volatility. But many markets for subindexes relative to the market do not show evidence of excessive volatility, and the market for individual stocks shows substantial evidence supporting the notion that prices in these markets do carry genuine information about future fundamentals. A second problem is that financial innovation sometimes encourages secret dealings, deception and even fraud. . . . But this should not be viewed as evidence against impressive progress in the field of finance."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rational exuberance, meet market mania. (Burt Glinn/Magnum photos); Symbolic speculation: "Tulipomania" in the 17th century and the herd mentality of dot-com investors in the 20th offer grist for the behaviorists.; Kahneman, left, receiving his Nobel in economics from King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden in 2002. (tulips: Corbis. Cattle: Joel Sartore/National Geographic Image Collection/Getty Images. Kahneman: Jonas Ekstromer/The Associated Press.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); BONDS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%) ECONOMICS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

PERSON: OLIN, DIRK; SMITH, ADAM (1723-1790); FRIEDMAN, MILTON 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (70%) SWEDEN (75%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



206 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-8-03: ON LANGUAGE; 
Money Talks

BYLINE:  By William Safire 

 BODY:
'I have never seen the color of Mr. Baskett's money," the Scottish political pamphleteer Thomas Gordon wrote in his 1718 "Cordial for Low Spirits." The color sought was gold, or at least good silver, called white money, as against metal of baser quality, easily tarnished, called black money (which may be the source of blackmail).
 Then came the Civil War in the United States, with its shortage of metal for coins and distrust of currency issued by local banks. Lincoln's treasury secretary, Salmon P. Chase, took a chance on issuing "Legal Tender Notes" with green designs on their backs that turned out to be an ingenious way for the government to borrow from the people without paying interest. Not everyone liked the paper: "The merchant offers greenbacks," The Cincinnati Gazette reported Gen. Lew Wallace's telling an audience early in August 1862, "and Mr. Planter says, 'No, Sir, they ain't good here: I must have gold.' " But the convenient, easy-to-carry greenbacks caught on, leading to the formation of the short-lived Greenback Party a generation later. 
 The long green, originally a Pennsylvania term for cheap whiskey, was soon applied to these green-backed notes of large denomination. "There did be long green shtickin' out iv vest pockets," Finley Peter Dunne wrote in his "Mr. Dooley" series in 1893, "an' men'd drink nawthin' but champagny."
This just in, the news peg for this financial etymology: "The venerable greenback is no longer going to appear all green," The Associated Press reports. (To be precise, it's only the back that's all green.) To confound counterfeiters in this age of digital imagery, Treasury's Bureau of Engraving and Printing is rolling out a multicolored version of the $20 bill, our most criminally copied item.
The freshened-up Andy will be peachy-keen, with subtle blue and green shadings and highlighted with dozens of little yellow dots whispering"20," all making it as hard to replicate as a sophisticated teenager's hairdo. Only two out of every 10,000 bills with Andrew Jackson's face are counterfeit, but it adds up. Higher-denomination bills will be further colorized in coming years, but there are no plans to complicate the buck or the fin; no self-respecting counterfeiter wastes his time on a $1 or a $5 bill. Thanks to that, the word greenback will maintain its currency in the American language.

MOOLAH
Investigating the "high-stakes slot room" of the Bellagio Hotel in Las Vegas, the columnist Eugene Kane of The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel noted, "We're talking serious moola here."
This is a slang term for money. Mario Pei, the language-in-action philologist of years ago, was sure "it was Chuck Green, a friend of Damon Runyon, who invented moolah." The columnist Runyon, whose grasp of Broadway lingo was immortalized in the musical "Guys and Dolls," wrote in 1939, "He is very desperate for a little moolah."
The origin is a mystery. The current spelling with an h, moolah, is shown by a database count to be preferred over the variant moola, which suggests that in pronunciation, the first syllable has no greater stress than the second. The word breaks into moo-lah. Speculation, especially welcome with citations, will be entertained at onlanguage@nytimes.com.

DEFLATION
On Dec. 19, 2002, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Alan Greenspan, told the Economic Club of New York, "The United States is nowhere close to sliding into a pernicious deflation." In February, in the question-and-answer portion of his semiannual testimony to Congress, he repeated the sentiment, "Indeed, our general presumption is that we seek stable prices, and stable prices mean no inflation or deflation." On April 30, again reporting to Congress, he used a less scary term, "With price inflation already at a low level, substantial further disinflation would be an unwelcome development." Ten days later, a statement from the board on the interest rate used a different formulation, "the probability of an unwelcome substantial fall in inflation, though minor."
On May 21 he returned to the key word without the modifier pernicious: "We at the Federal Reserve recognize that deflation is a possibility," he told members of Congress. "Even though we perceive the risks as minor, the potential consequences are very substantial and could be quite negative." When Senator Robert Bennett, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, recalled his previous use of the word deflation, the Fed chairman asked, "Did I use the word deflation?" Bennett replied, "You kind of danced around it, but that's the way it came across." Greenspan smiled. "It was my interpreter." 
Deflation is a rise in the value of money as prices of goods and services fall (that's good for most people, especially savers and those on fixed incomes) but a drop in wages and credit and an increase in unemployment (bad for workers, lenders and investors). While disinflation is a slowing of the rise in prices, deflation is the actual fall in prices. It last happened in the United States during the 1930's, not a happy time, and is thus regarded with some dread.
The earliest use of the word in the Times archive was by Edmund D. Fisher, a deputy controller of New York City in 1913, discussing "the volume of inflation and deflation in our alternate periods of business activity and depression." No politician today likes to use that last word lightly. If we should move from unwelcome disinflation to pernicious deflation, the hopeful term to keep an eye out for is invigorating reflation.

YARD INFLATION
How long is a yard? Literalists will say 36 inches, nearly a meter. Ale drinkers define it as a long, slender glass of their favorite beverage, holding about two pints.
In business slang, a yard started out as a $100 bill: one hundred dollars is a century or a yard, The American Mercury observed in 1926. Then came the good times for the C-note, followed by the crash, and American Speech in 1932 defined yard as a G or a grand: $1,000.
Fast-forward to this millennium. (I use the verb fast-forward as a useful antonym for the movie term flashback, but with the takeover of videotape by DVD, fast-forward will be fast junked. Maybe we'll reach back to skip ahead.) According to Paul Maidment, executive editor of Forbes -- who watches the foreign-exchange markets and their inside lingo -- "Yard is now for-ex slang for a billion," since 1 billion Japanese yen equals approximately 10 million U.S. dollars. It's clearer to say "I'm a buyer of a yard of yen" than to say "I'm a buyer of a billion yen," which could easily be misheard as "I'm a buyer of a million yen."
From a hundred bucks to a billion yen -- is the yard due for a semantic crash?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); TENDER OFFERS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); COUNTERFEITING (67%) ENGLISH LANGUAGE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%); BUREAU OF ENGRAVING INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (53%)

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (57%) NEVADA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



207 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-8-03: QUESTIONS FOR DANA GIACCHETTO; 
Money Man No More

BYLINE:  By Emily White 

 BODY:
Q: In the 90's you were the financial adviser to many famous actors and artists, and in 2000 you pleaded guilty to fraud and wound up spending nearly three years in prison. Did your fellow inmates ever ask you for financial advice?
 Constantly. My advice was to take it slow and easy. I would tell the inmates: "Listen, there is no economic Holy Grail. Money is always difficult, it will always be difficult." I would say, "Look around -- money doesn't solve all your problems." 
 Do you feel as if money was your destiny and now you have to reinvent yourself?
I don't think to work with money was my destiny. I think to help people was my destiny. 
Do you miss working with money?
I do miss working with money, but part of my restriction now is I'm banned from being a registered investment adviser for life. Although I still have my own thoughts about the market. This is what I see happening: I think we'll test 7,500 on the bottom before we reach the heights of 25,000. I don't know if you'll believe this or if anyone else will -- but I think the Dow will go to 25,000 before July 4, 2005. Remember I always used to say 10,000 before 2000? That prediction was true.
So you remain an optimist.
The market will see new heights, but I think the kind of companies that are going to succeed are companies that are not built on artifice but are built on selling real products. In fact, what I am thinking of doing with my fiancee is starting a large food company. Really high quality foods at low prices, and get artists and designers to design the packaging. It will be called Taste. What Taste will represent is the finest food packaged in high design. That is my next world-conquering idea. I am getting back to the point where I'm going to be producing a tangible product. No more intangibles. A real product you can eat instead of something abstract like money. You can laugh at it now, but when you see every single shelf in America with Taste on it, you will realize that Giacchetto is back.
Do you think being part of the celebrity world had something to do with your downfall?
I don't know if they're causally linked. Obviously, at times I had what I would call a solipsistic worldview, and that gets heightened in these kind of egocentric environments. And I think that helped for -- you know, I lost my moral compass for a while.
What has happened to your ego since?
Certainly I've been humbled by the jail experience. I am not in denial about the kind of damage that was associated with me, and I want to correct that. I am working full time, reconnecting with lots of my old clients, trying to make sure that people are aware I want to heal as many wounds as I can. Or at least palliate the wounds.
Which old clients have you been contacting? Everyone was fascinated by your close friendship with Leonardo DiCaprio.
Friendship has always been very important to me, and as far as I'm concerned, true friendships require loyalty and absolute discretion. Given that, there's no way I'll mention names. I can tell you that I'll try to contact every single one of my old clients and friends to apologize for my transgressions. 
Do you feel bad for the people who lost money with you?
I feel terrible about what happened. But I think the people that know me know my true intentions were good. Over time I think that will show. I was painted with this brush as a con man and manipulator, and nobody looked at the charges. I only pleaded guilty to one charge of financial fraud. I did not plead guilty to ripping off movie stars. I am not a scammer and I have never been. I think within the wreckage there is still the soul of me. 
I have a good character, and it will resurface. Emily White

GRAPHIC: Photo (Ashkan Sahihi)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (68%); BONDS (67%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; INVESTMENT COUNSELORS 

PERSON: WHITE, EMILY; GIACCHETTO, DANA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



208 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
Planning for Further Business Revival in Hoboken

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

DATELINE: HOBOKEN 

 BODY:
A DECADE ago, as an apartment-building boom was getting under way here, the city's leaders were moved to take a new look at Hoboken's shabby waterfront and saw some classy office space waiting to happen. After years of planning and work to set up a 50-acre redevelopment area, after selection of SJP Properties -- in 1996 -- to build two office buildings right next to the Hudson River, after major tenants were lured from Manhattan for the twin 14-story towers SJP completed last month, it is finally happening.
 And now, the second act is supposed to begin: another office tower and a 250-room hotel are planned for another parcel of land with river frontage, situated immediately north of the SJP buildings. The developers for those projects were officially named at a ceremony held on May 27 in Pier A Park, built by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey on a five-acre pier in 1999, part of the first redevelopment work. At the ceremony, SJP was named to build the third tower, and the Applied Companies of Hoboken was designated to build the hotel. 
 But first: more waiting. 
"We've been involved in this since the first opportunity," said SJP's chairman and chief executive, Steven J. Pozycki, whose firm is based in Parsippany, "and we are raring to go with the next building. Given this economy, however, we can't go yet."
Mr. Pozycki had smiled through the ceremony on a rare sunny afternoon and through a subsequent tour of the well-appointed building that Marsh & McLennan, the Manhattan financial firm, will begin moving into next month. But his mien shifted to sober as he discussed prospects for the next phase of the project called Waterfront Corporate Center.
SJP will not break ground on the next building without a committed tenant, he said, adding, "Right now, tenants are hard to come by."
Michael Barry, the principal of the Applied Companies, also beamed during the ceremony in the park, particularly when United States Representative Robert Menendez, who resides in Hoboken, spoke about how the city "deserves a hotel at this time, as the incredible jewel that is Hoboken gets unlocked," and Mayor David Roberts told of how he yearns for a place in his hometown big enough to hold a graduation party, or a wedding reception, for his daughter -- who is currently only 15.
Afterward, however, Mr. Barry said: "It's a fantastic site, an exceptional development site, and right now we are waiting along with everyone else for the hotel industry to come back. It has pretty much been out to lunch since 9/11."
The Hyatt Regency Hotel, built by Mack-Cali last year on Jersey City's waterfront as part of its Harborside Financial Center, is having some occupancy problems because of the economy, Mack-Cali's chief executive, Mitchell E. Hersh, conceded recently -- but he said that was in line with the regional and national picture.
At least the hotel industry is likely to respond quickly to an economic upturn when it comes, Mr. Barry said. "Unlike some sectors, it might take months -- not years -- once the economy starts to heal," he said. "More than other types of real estate, hotels are closely related to how the economy is doing at this very moment. We're not talking about 10-year leases after all. We're talking about getting reservations every night."
The health of Hoboken's market is directly tied to that of Manhattan, to be sure. Hoboken is just a short ferry ride away from Midtown, and the remaking of its waterfront was intended to draw businesses to "a fantastic environment without Manhattan rents," as Mayor Roberts put it.
The average annual commercial rent over all for Hoboken is $36 per square foot, according to Insignia/ESG, the real estate services company. SJP will not comment on rental rates at Waterfront Corporate Center, although the new space would certainly command the highest rates in this city, which offers very few large office spaces, and many smaller ones along its main artery, Washington Street, two blocks inland from the river.
In April, the vacancy rate for commercial space in Hoboken was 11.4 percent, Insignia/ESG reported.
Meanwhile, in Midtown Manhattan, where the average asking rent was $51 per square foot in April, according to Insignia/ESG, rental rates continued to fall, having declined 8 percent in the past year and 17 percent over the past 24 months. The vacancy rate was 12.1 percent.
On the other hand, Insignia's analysts noted a number of significant renewals and expansions among high-profile tenants in Manhattan, like Gannett, Bank of America and several law firms that have committed to remaining in Midtown. It reported, "Cautious optimism is returning to the Midtown office market." In addition, Pfizer, the pharmaceutical company, recently announced that it intended to add more than 4,000 employees in Midtown over the next 15 years -- 1,000 next year alone -- and that it would purchase a 31-story office building near its headquarters on East 42nd Street to house them.
In Midtown, while the amount of space returned to the market continues to outpace leasing activity, the total amount of square feet leased was 58 percent better in April than the year before and was 26 percent greater for the first four months of 2003 than for the same period in 2002. "The fact is we got the last big tenant that left New York for New Jersey's waterfront," said Mr. Pozycki, referring to Marsh & McLennan's impending move to 450,000 square feet in Hoboken. "Now, we just have to see what the market forces will conjure up next."
Hoboken was instantly revitalized last July, Mayor Roberts said, when the publisher John Wiley & Sons moved 950 employees into the first building completed at Waterfront Corporate Center. "We got street life -- in the daytime!" the mayor said. "The existing shops and restaurants already are seeing so much more traffic. The people from New York are seeing what a comfortable place this is to work and live."
The mayor said Wiley was already "part of the family" in Hoboken, with many employees involved in community work and the social life of the city. William Arlington, the head human resources officer for Wiley, which was based on the other side of the river for almost two centuries, said employees were thrilled with the building, which provides spacious conference rooms, a cafeteria and a stunning skyline view of Manhattan.
"The move has really been very pleasant for most of us in many many ways," said Mr. Arlington. In the three years since the decision was made to leave New York City, he said, only 10 departing employees have listed the move to Hoboken as the reason for their action.
Hoboken's public officials are committed to keeping the city's basic character intact, even as they are pleased to have the scruffy old ship-and-railyard neighborhood on the waterfront gone forever.
When negotiating with the Port Authority, which is a formal partner in Hoboken's redevelopment, city officers pressed hard to win reduction of the proposed "massing" of the buildings, making them taller rather than wider at the base, so as to retain more space for the park and open areas, and to keep the compact feel of the downtown area.
"Preserving the street grid, the fabric, without creating enclaves, is near and dear to Hoboken's heart," said Applied's Mr. Barry. "Hoboken is a wonderful walking town, with lots of shops, bakeries and restaurants. You can get from any two points without a car."
Mr. Menendez said that Hoboken was gaining a reputation for making a comeback without erasing its past. "I travel around the country quite a bit," the congressman said, "and when I mention Hoboken, people from the West Coast, the South and across, they know it as the birthplace of Frank Sinatra and baseball, but also as a place where a lot of people have brought a city back to life."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven J. Pozycki, chief executive of SJP Properties, which has put up two office towers in the Waterfront Corporate Center in Hoboken, standing on the site where a third tower is to be built. The Applied Companies has been designated to build an adjacent 250-room hotel. (Timothy Ivy for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); LODGING (76%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (74%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%); PORT AUTHORITIES (53%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; HOTELS AND MOTELS; WATERFRONT CORPORATE CENTER (HOBOKEN, NJ) 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); HYATT HOTELS CORP (56%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SJP PROPERTIES 

TICKER: H (NYSE) (56%); MMC (NYSE) (53%); MHM (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (56%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%)

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (57%); DAVID A ROBERTS (50%) MARTIN, ANTOINETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) HOBOKEN (NJ); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



209 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2289 words

HEADLINE: In a Changed SoHo, Legal Pentimento 

BYLINE:  By NADINE BROZAN 

 BODY:
WHEN the city moved decades ago to upgrade SoHo and NoHo from decaying manufacturing areas and to legitimize the covert conversion of lofts there into working and living quarters for artists, one requirement was that prospective residents must be artists and certified as such by a specially appointed board.
 Now that the area has been transformed into one of the city's most sophisticated and costly neighborhoods, many artists have long since migrated to less expensive surroundings. But the regulation, written into the zoning code, and a vestigial remnant of the board -- whose membership is kept secret -- remain. 
 While officials concede that the regulation is rarely enforced, its effects live on. There are still occasionally people who seek certification, as Anthony Gordon, a photographer did five years ago. "The building I was trying to live in, a co-op on Broadway in SoHo, required it and the board wouldn't entertain my package without it," he said. 
More commonly, prospective residents are asked to sign legal documents holding building managements blameless if it is proved they are living there illegally.
Commissioners of the three agencies that share responsibility for the regulation have begun conversations about its future.
"The law was created with the best intentions at a particular moment in the neighborhood's history," said Kate D. Levin, the commissioner of the Department of Cultural Affairs, which grants the artists' certifications. "We are aware that market forces and the reality of SoHo are not in sync with the provisions of the law. This agency has been in discussions with the Department of City Planning and the Department of Buildings to see how we can most effectively address the situation to protect the neighborhood, and we intend to talk to arts groups and the community board as well. "We intend to do the right thing," Commissioner Levin said, "and if doing the right thing shifts, then it is government's responsibility to shift."
In 1971, the city began to acknowledge that hundreds of artists were living covertly in lofts constructed for manufacturing purposes and began granting, albeit on an informal basis, certifications legalizing the residency of artists in what are termed "joint live-work quarters." In 1986, it grandfathered everyone already in residence there, whether or not they were artists, and began codifying the approval process with a rigid set of standards applicable to subsequent tenants or buyers. 
In its heyday the Artists' Certification Committee, which reviewed applications, had as many as 20 members. Now it has shrunk to two, whose identities Ms. Levin said could not be divulged, but she noted that the number of applicants has declined. "Artists do continue to be certified, but only a trickle cross my desk," she said. 
According to department data, which is sketchy, of some 30 applicants last year, 24 received the certificates. All told, an estimated 2,500 to 3,000 individuals have been approved over the years. 
Once an artist moves into a SoHo or NoHo loft -- rental, condo or co-op -- in the districts designated as M1-5A and M1-5B zones, the responsibility for ensuring that the unit remains in the hands of artists falls to the Department of Buildings, which requires only that a member of the household be deemed an artist, not necessarily the lease holder or buyer. 
But the passage of time and the inevitable turnover in residents has made the regulation "virtually unenforceable," according to Ilyse Fink, a spokeswoman for the Department of Buildings.
"There is no requirement that we be notified when people move out," she said. "Someone would have to make a complaint in order for us to investigate, and then that means gaining access to the building and asking people if they are artists." 
Furthermore, she pointed out, given the city's current economic problems, enforcement is hardly on the front burner. 
"In the pantheon of things we must investigate, this is a quality of life issue, but it would never have the same priority as a building with construction or safety problems," she said. "As with many other city agencies, we have a limit to our resources. We won't evict someone for this because it is not a safety issue."
In fact, no one seems to know how many buildings or units remain in either full or partial compliance. The last known survey conducted in SoHo was completed in 1996 and one currently under way in NoHo is far from conclusion. 
Nor does anyone seem to know how many complaints about nonartists living in lofts reserved for artists have been lodged with the Buildings Department. "It is not an individual complaint category," Ms. Fink said. "Where it gets filed would depend on how the caller had articulated it and how the call manager had classified it."
No one disputes that droves of affluent nonartists -- including lawyers, physicians, investment bankers, stockbrokers and, until recently, dot-com executives -- have swamped the community in the last two decades, paying rents or purchase prices that would have stunned their predecessors.
"We have a large population living technically in violation of the statute," said Margaret D. Baisley, a real estate lawyer who said she "deals with this issue on virtually a daily basis."
While many landlords and building boards no longer demand that a member of the household be a certified artist, she said, they still require new arrivals to sign letters absolving buildings of responsibility if the residency is found to be improper. "In my opinion," she said, "there are virtually no buildings in SoHo that require certification and it has become almost universal in transactions to ask for a waiver letter."
"I find it problematic determining who is an artist, and defining art as that which is fine art only and not commercial," she went on. In addition, she said, "There is also a requirement that you have five years of demonstrated commitment to your genre of fine art. I have had very gifted artists as clients who, because they were in their early 20's, were denied on that basis." 
AS spelled out in the code, those deemed to be in the "creative" arts -- including painters, sculptors, choreographers, composers and, inexplicably, poets -- are eligible, but those in "interpretive" arts, such as musicians who play other people's compositions, actors and dancers, are not. 
To get around the barriers to commercial artists, Ms. Baisley said: "We sanitize applications to get anything remotely commercial out. I have had rock musicians reduce their work to sheet music and present themselves as songwriters."
Although he is engaged in artistic photography as well as commercial, Anthony Gordon was turned down when he first applied for certification. 
He decided to appeal, with the help of an article about him in a weekly German magazine. "Conveniently, I had once been interviewed by Stern magazine, which compared me to Robert Mapplethorpe," he said. "That meant if he was an artist, so was I. So I got a copy of the article and had it translated." The strategy worked, and he was certified. 
Mr. Gordon's subsequent experience is illustrative not only of how the process works -- or, some would say, does not work -- but of the seismic changes that have catapulted SoHo out of the reach of all but the most successful artists. 
Five years ago, Mr. Gordon paid $625,000 for his 2,200-square-foot loft in a building that is part co-op, part condominium and part retail space. (There are no maintenance fees, he said, because retail rents cover all communal expenses.) 
"It has unobstructed views of the Empire State Building, all of Lower Manhattan and three bridges," he said. "It was just appraised for $2.2 million, and several weeks ago I had an offer of $3.5 million. I called the co-op board and said, 'Will we take a nonartist?' They said, 'Well, we have a law.' "
The question, however, is academic for Mr. Gordon. He has decided to stay put. "I have looked all over New York and see that I can't duplicate what I have for under $3 million or $4 million," he said. 
Ms. Baisley, who was Mr. Gordon's lawyer when he bought the loft, favors rezoning the entire area for residential and retail use instead of perpetuating its designation as a light manufacturing district. 
"Owners should be legally permitted to sell to whomever they wish and make a profit," she said. "Why should the artists who colonized this area at great danger and inconvenience when there was no sanitation, police or fire protection, no place to shop, be denied the benefit of what they did?" 
Susan Meisel, a painter, photographer and owner with her husband of the Louis K. Meisel Gallery on Prince Street, who is also a real estate broker, minced no words when asked about artists' certification program.
"It is like an old piece of gum," she said. "We ought to spit it out and get over it. There are better things to chew on."
Ms. Meisel was certified in 1973, but if something were to happen to her, she said, "My husband and child would be living here illegally. Does that mean that my husband would have to find an artist to move in?" 
She does not buy the argument that the certification process ought to be preserved to keep artists from fleeing SoHo and NoHo en masse, grabbing enormous profits as they go. 
"It's not as if every artist who ever moved into SoHo suddenly had to leave because their lofts were worth millions of dollars," she said. "There are still dozens of buildings with artists living and working there, and when they decide to sell, they will be happy that the lofts for which they paid $15,000 are now worth $1 million."
As for the contention that the soaring prices keep emerging artists out of SoHo and NoHo, she said, "There are still places for them to go and the same thing will happen there because it is artists who make neighborhoods interesting."
"This is the only neighborhood in the entire universe where you must be something specific to live there," she continued. "It seems to me that we should be fighting to say that it is unconstitutional to decide that neighborhood be limited to a certain kind of person." 
But there are still numerous people who believe that the area ought to be reserved for artists, both to reinforce it as a cultural magnet and to restore it as a source of space affordable to artists whose work does not command stratospheric prices. 
The SoHo Alliance and several individuals balked when it was announced in 1998 that Continuum Partners, a collaboration of the developers Bruce Eichner and Hank Sopher, intended to build two luxury residential buildings, on former parking lots on Houston Street at the northern fringe of SoHo, that would be marketed to nonartists.
They won a lawsuit filed in New York Supreme Court against the Board of Standards and Appeals, which had issued the necessary variance, but the decision was reversed by the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, paving the way for construction now under way.
One argument mounted against the new buildings -- now the subject of another lawsuit, which was filed in December -- was the lack of a provision that residents be artists. The point was moot: the artist-in-residence requirement applies only to conversions and not to new construction. 
Nevertheless, Sean Sweeney, director of the alliance and a member of the executive committee of Community Board 2, which covers SoHo and NoHo, said: "This will open the floodgates. It could be the death knell of SoHo as an artists' colony."
Marie Dormuth, an adjunct professor of art at the Parsons School of Design and a printmaker, has no reservations about the effectiveness of the certification process.
"It enabled and enhanced what was already going on here by laying down a system by which the art industry could be continued," she said. "It has been most important for the preservation of this special neighborhood. I feel confident that it should be continued."
City Councilman Alan Gerson, who represents the area, has taken up the cause. "The purpose of the program remains valid, although the administration is flawed," he said. "A good land use zoning plan could serve the purpose and replace artists' certification, but we shouldn't do away with it until we put something else in its place."
Mr. Gerson has remedies in mind. "First, we should do a thorough survey of what is there," he said. "I think we need to expand the definition of the arts to include not only traditional sculpture and fine painting but new media, architecture and design." 
"We also have the challenge of recreating the conditions that allowed new artists to come in and build up the community," he said. "There are several underdeveloped areas and vacant lots that are the site of proposed development. I believe that any new development should have an arts component, whether that means reserving a certain percentage for affordable housing for artists or creating new collective art space where they can work."
"We treat artists like nomads," he continued. "They build up a neighborhood, then become victims of their own success, and we force them to move on. That is no way to treat them in a society that truly values its arts sector."
There are also those who say it is too late to close the barn door for the artists' community in SoHo-NoHo.
"Young artists don't come here anymore," said Richard Kostelanetz, author of "SoHo: the Rise and Fall of an Artists' Colony," published last week by Routledge. Mr. Kostalanetz has lived in SoHo since 1974. "Now it's time for me to go," he said. "It's no longer an artistic community and there is no reason to be here." 
He has put his loft on the market for $1 million and is building a house in the Rockaways section of Queens, "next to the A train and 1,000 feet from the beach."

GRAPHIC: Photos: City Councilman Alan Gerson, in front of 429 WestBroadway. Of the artist certification regulations, he said, "The purpose of the program remains valid, although the administration is flawed." He suggests that new developments should have arts components. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 6); Margaret D. Baisley, a lawyer, favors ending regulations; Sean Sweeney, head of SoHo Alliance, disagrees. (Librado Romero/The New York Times, left; Frances Roberts for The New York Times, right); Anthony Gordon, a photographer, paid $625,000 for his 2,200-square-foot loft five years ago and was recently offered $3.5 million for it. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 1) Map of Manhattan shows area designated for artists' live-work spaces. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ZONING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); HISTORY (74%); CITIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); BOARD CHANGES (72%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%) HOUSING; ZONING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ART; LOFTS 

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; SOHO (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; NOHO (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



210 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1650 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
How Much For Tickets? You Need a Scorecard

BYLINE:  By JOHN MORELL 

 BODY:
AS a die-hard Cubs fan, Ira D. Finkelberg was willing to pay almost anything to buy a ticket to see his team take on the Yankees this weekend. So are many other baseball fans in Chicago, particularly in a season when the Cubs have been leading the Central division of the National League.
 For many baseball teams, there has always been a seller's market for tickets -- at least for some opponents, on certain days. Now baseball executives are acknowledging this phenomenon and embracing "variable pricing" -- the practice of changing ticket prices based on anticipated demand. Tickets to games against good teams or on weekends cost more, while those against lesser opponents or in the middle of the week can be sold at a lower price. 
 "For years we'd have meetings about our prices, and we'd look at all the other entertainment venues," said Frank Maloney, the director of ticket operations for the Chicago Cubs. "If you go to the movies at night you pay more than if you go during the day, and even restaurants have 'early bird' specials to drive traffic in. Why can't we do that?" 
The Cubs are trying to squeeze every bit of revenue they can from every fan. So are the other 29 Major League Baseball franchises, in part because average attendance at big-league ballparks has fallen the last decade, to 26,600 a game in 2002 from 31,000 in 1993. For teams in the biggest cities, the pain of declining attendance has been compounded by the adoption of a form of revenue sharing, which has put pressure on big-city teams to make up for what they must give to small-market competitors.
One particularly visible approach is to increase ticket revenue by charging more for games against certain marquee teams or for games on weekends. Mr. Finkelberg, for example, bought four tickets in a terrace box for today's game at Wrigley Field for $32 each last February, when they went on sale. That is more than 20 percent more than the same seats cost last weekend, when the Cubs played the Houston Astros -- even though the Astros are in the same division and likely to fight them for a playoff spot.
But Mr. Finkelberg, 45, of Antioch, Ill., is sanguine about the increase. "I'm seeing the teams I want to see play on a day that works for me," he said. "So I'm not bothered by a price increase at all."
This is the first time the two teams have played in Chicago since the 1938 World Series, which the Yankees won in four games. Ticket brokers, including one owned by the Cubs, are asking as much as $1,500 a seat to see the game.
In the past, when a baseball fan bought a seat in a particular section, the ticket had a set price during the season, whether the game was on a drizzly May weeknight against a last-place opponent or on a sunny Saturday in July against the division champions. That was just, well, baseball.
But now some baseball executives are beginning to think and act more the way theater producers or concert promoters do. Among the teams that have embraced some form of variable pricing are the Yankees and the Mets in New York; the Anaheim Angels, last season's World Series champions; the San Francisco Giants, the National League champions; the Atlanta Braves; and the St. Louis Cardinals.
"WE'RE an entertainment entity doing 81 dates over a six-month period," said Robert DiBiasio, vice president for public relations of the Cleveland Indians, referring to the number of regular-season home games. "Of course, there are going to be dates that sparkle more than others, so our goal was to figure out which ones they were and plan and price accordingly."
The team has lowered prices for large sections of its home, Jacobs Field, dropping the bleachers price to $12 from $19, for example. To help pay for those cuts, there is a $5 across-the-board premium for 10 so-called showcase games: opening day and series against the Los Angeles Dodgers, the Cincinnati Reds and the Yankees. Opening day was a sellout, generating $211,000 more revenue than on opening day in 2002.
Over all, however, attendance in Cleveland has dropped 34 percent over the first 25 dates versus 2002. The sharp drop in attendance would appear to offset any gain from variable pricing, but Mr. DiBiasio said the Indians could still make more with less. "If we maximize our showcase games, we'll realize over $1 million in additional ticket revenue" over the full season, he said.
Daniel A. Rascher, president of Sports-Economics, a sports consulting firm in Berkeley, Calif., said variable-price ticketing "has been around for years, but baseball is just getting around to it." He added: "It's basic economics. When you've got a product that has a big demand like a matchup between two rival teams, the ticket price should be higher. You have the potential of increasing ticket revenues by 20 percent to 30 percent."
The way business has been going the last few years, baseball is more than ready for those kinds of numbers. Attendance at major league games over all fell 6.3 percent last year and has continued to decline in 2003, by 4.6 percent through May compared with the same number of games last year. Team executives blame the war in Iraq, bad weather in the Midwest and Northeast and the weak economy.
Teams with variable pricing report that the increase in prices for premium games has not put off fans or cut into sales of food, beer and souvenirs. "Our premium games are sellouts," Mr. Maloney said. "We've always got the fans who go to one or two games a year, and they don't care about paying a few dollars more for a better game on a good day."
Not all fans are happy about the change. "It's gouging," said Gary R. Clark, an Indians fan from Parma Hills, Ohio. He usually attended a handful of games each season, he said, but he has stayed away from Jacobs Field in 2003. "They cut the prices on the seats you don't want, put a poor product on the field, then they jack up prices on games everybody wants to see," he said. "And they wonder why no one's going to games?"
The Colorado Rockies were the first to make the leap into variable pricing, five years ago. The Rockies started with a simple program that charged a few dollars more a seat for games at Coors Field on weekends or if the team was playing a major rival like the Dodgers or the Mets. It has evolved into a multitiered program that compounds the extra charges for the best games. For instance, a midweek game against the Giants might include a $3 "premium game" surcharge. For a Saturday game against the Yankees, Rockies fans pay $9 extra a ticket.
"Even though we've been doing this for a number of years, we're still trying to tweak it and improve the system," said Kevin Fenton, senior director of ticket operations for the Rockies. "It adds to our revenue stream and fans understand the economics of it. They understand why they're charged more for some games; it's accepted."
At Shea Stadium this season, the Mets have begun tiered pricing that is similar to that of the Rockies. "We break our games down into four categories based on the time of year, the day of the week and the opponent," said David Howard, the team's senior vice president for business and legal affairs. Mets games are categorized into gold, silver, bronze and value levels.
"An upper reserved seat, which was $12 last year, is now either $16, $14, $12 or $8, depending on the category it's in," Mr. Howard said. "It all makes perfect business sense. We're selling out the gold games because they're marquee events, and sales on the value games have gone extremely well because we've lowered the price on games where the demand isn't as high."
After the first 24 dates this year, overall attendance at Mets games was down 25 percent from the comparable period last year. 
Despite the relative success of the Yankees on the field this season, attendance at Yankee Stadium is also down slightly, by 4 percent. The Yankees offer a discount promotion this year in which fans can pay just $5 for upper-deck seats at eight games against low-drawing opponents.
Some teams, like the Braves and Giants, have chosen a simple program -- an extra $4 for weekend games -- regardless of the opponent. "We draw fans from all over Northern California on the weekends," said Thomas M. McDonald, senior vice president for marketing for the Giants. "It doesn't matter who we're playing; the fans just want to experience the game."
WHEN introducing a variable-price program, teams face a delicate issue: what to do about their most precious fans, season ticket holders. Should they also pay premium rates?
"We talked about this and ultimately decided to include the season ticket holders in the premium-seat increases," said Mr. Maloney of the Cubs. "We have a very strong season ticket base, and they account for a huge chunk of our revenue. Our season seat sales and renewals were strong this year, so that decision has been a good one."
The Mets also charged their season ticket holders for premium-game increases. "The way we look at it is that we didn't raise our season ticket price in 2002, and for 2003 these customers are paying about 4 percent more than last year," Mr. Howard said. "This makes the price increase 4 percent over two years, which is less than inflation in New York."
Other teams have taken the opposite approach. "By not charging them the premium, we're giving the season ticket holder extra value," said Mr. McDonald, of the Giants. "It's another reason for them to renew: they won't be paying a premium on weekends."
Mr. Rascher, the sports economist, says variable pricing is here to stay.
"Within five years, it will be commonplace in most pro sports," he said. "Franchises that don't do it will try to use that as a marketing scheme: 'We're the only team in the league that doesn't vary our prices.'
"But they're going to have to pick up that revenue some other way," he added. "There's just a lot of pressure to build up your revenues, even if your attendance is down."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wrigley Field in Chicago, above and left, had many empty seats when the Cubs played the Pirates last month. But tickets sold quickly -- and at premium prices -- for this weekend's series with the Yankees. (Photographs by Peter Thompson for The New York Times) Chart: "A Pricing Game Plan"Dwindling ticket sales have led some Major League Baseball teams to charge more for games against top opponents or on weekends. Colorado was the first to adopt the approach, in 1998. The team now offers four types of pricing. Colorado Rockies 1998Ticket revenue, in millions: $60Avg. attendance per game: 46,823 1999Ticket revenue, in millions: 55Avg. attendance per game: 39,949 2000Ticket revenue, in millions: 54Avg. attendance per game: 40,681 2001Ticket revenue, in millions: 54Avg. attendance per game: 39,118 2002Ticket revenue, in millions: 42Avg. attendance per game: 33,801 Price levels for an outfield box seat at Rockies games this year CLASSIC LEVELJuly 3 vs. $32Arizona PREMIUM LEVELJune 6 interleague vs. Kansas $30City VALUE LEVELMay 15 vs. $24Montreal SEASON TICKETSPart of an 81-game $20package (Sources: Kagan World Media; ColoradoRockies.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (96%); SPORTS FANS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS REVENUES (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); TICKET AGENCIES (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%) BASEBALL; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); COLORADO ROCKIES (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (82%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (59%)

PERSON: MORELL, JOHN

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



211 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Many Find an Office's Culture Is More Than Dress-Shirt Deep 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOEPPEL 

 BODY:
AT first, Joyce Hansen wondered if leaving journalism for the more conservative world of banking was a career mistake. When she was a reporter and editor, dressing for work had meant pulling on jeans and a Gap T-shirt. At her jobs in New York City and Harrisburg, Pa., from 1990 to 1999, Ms. Hansen, 44, had loved the sometimes raucous and chaotic atmosphere of a newsroom, and had relished the freedom to speak her mind.
 But in time, she tired of the hectic pace, fierce competition and relatively low pay. In February 2001, after taking some time off to write a book, she accepted a job as a technical writer with the Bank One Corporation of Chicago. She got a taste of what was to come from the hiring process, when she was fingerprinted, tested for drugs and given a criminal background check. But it was still a shock to have to show up for work at 9 a.m. sharp every day, wearing subdued colors and Calvin Klein skirts. The calm, polite tenor of the frequent meetings she was required to attend also took some getting used to. 
 Not only that, but for almost a year, her supervisor kept her on a tight leash, criticizing her choice of clothing and her way of speaking and writing whenever they were deemed to have fallen short of company standards. "She was studying me on an almost daily basis, to make sure I was conservative enough," Ms. Hansen recalled about her supervisor. "She wanted to make sure that I looked and acted like a banker."
So did Ms. Hansen begin to yearn for the old days as a reporter? Not a bit. Instead, she learned an important lesson about the workplace: surface manifestations of a company's culture don't matter; what counts are its core values. 
Ms. Hansen came to view the formality and strict rules at Bank One as little more than a mild annoyance -- and to appreciate what she saw as its principles of shared purpose, open communication and mutual respect among employees.
The money helped, too. "The new job required me to adapt my personality to the new circumstances," she said. "But I knew that in making these changes there would be a payoff. I've been able to achieve my personal goals. There's better money, excellent benefits. I'm saving to make a down payment on a mortgage and for the first time I'm debt free."
In March, Ms. Hansen began working at Banc One Capital Markets, a subsidiary of Bank One, as a research editor, a job that she called "a perfect fit."
There is a lesson in her experience for people looking for a job, or thinking of switching careers. It has always been accepted wisdom among workplace experts that employees thrive best in a company whose culture matches their personality. But as Ms. Hansen's shaky but ultimately successful transition shows, it is important for job candidates to peer below the surface to figure out what really matters to them.
Similarly, if you love what you are doing, maybe you should stay put, even if more lucrative offers beckon. Christine Bracco, 31, an executive assistant for the Anschutz Entertainment Group, a sports and entertainment company in Los Angeles, says she never felt more professionally fulfilled than when she worked from 1997 to 2000 as an executive assistant at Scholastic, the Manhattan publisher that specializes in children's books.
Ms. Bracco, a certified teacher, strongly identified with its mission to educate children and improve literacy. And she said she felt that management cared about employees, treating them to lectures and workshops by authors and educators, giving them perks like a rooftop restaurant and an on-site library. The management kept employees informed through the company's newsletter and Intranet site.
Though she left Scholastic to move to California in 2000, she is hoping a return is not out of the question, especially if the company opens an office there, as she has heard it plans to do.
Of course, in this sagging economy, people desperate for work can be forgiven for ignoring potential employers' culture altogether. "You don't think about it if you're just concerned about survival," said Randall S. Hansen, the publisher of Quintessential Careers, an online job site.
"Any offer is a good one if it allows you to pay the bills or ensure you won't be homeless," said Dr. Hansen, who is no relation to Joyce Hansen. 
But the economy is starting to show signs of life. Last week, surveys from May showed that factory activity exceeded expectations and job cuts by employers declined sharply. If the economy rebounds this summer, as some expect, people looking for work might find they have more flexibility to take a close look at the companies that want to hire them.
Sometimes, of course, it is obvious where you belong and where you don't. An environmental activist would not have to scratch much below the surface to realize she would not enjoy working for an oil company with a spotty record on pollution.
Job seekers should think hard about what, exactly, in a company's culture is important to them and what is not, experts say. For some, a rooftop restaurant or large office with a north-south exposure might matter a lot. Others might prefer a laid-back environment, and some value opportunities for advancement and to make more money.
Dr. Hansen offered a basic test: "You want to be happy going to work. You don't want to be one of these people who spend Sundays thinking, 'Oh my God, I can't face my job tomorrow.' "
There are many ways to learn about a company's culture, from doing online research to chatting with employees off the premises.
Benjamin Dattner, president of Dattner Consulting and an adjunct assistant professor of organizational psychology at New York University, says you can pick up clues by making a casual visit. "Does the receptionist smile?" he asked. "Are people sitting in the reception area responded to? Ask people to flat-out describe what it's like to work there and what types of people are happiest."
Job hunters should be aware that employers, too, are intent on finding the right match. In fact, because they are hiring fewer people than they were a few years ago, they are paying closer attention to the personalities of applicants to make sure they share the company's values and goals, according to Herbert Greenberg, chief executive of Caliper Human Strategies, a job-aptitude assessment company in Princeton, N.J.
Caliper charges $265 for its personality and job-aptitude test, a two-hour exam used by companies like FedEx and Avis, and it says that business has increased 20 percent over the last year.
Another method that has been gaining favor recently for scrutinizing job candidates, Dr. Hansen says, is something called the situational interview, which uses role-playing techniques to gauge applicants' responses to situations they might encounter on the job.
For all the emphasis on finding the right fit, employers should not lose sight of the value of a diversity of viewpoints, workplace experts say. Sometimes, new hires with contrarian ideas can shake things up in a positive way.
"They're coming from a fresh perspective," Dr. Dattner said. "They can ask, 'Why do we do it this way? Let's try it that way.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christine Bracco moved to California three years ago, but says she misses the workplace culture at her New York job. (Stephanie Diani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ETHICS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); FINGERPRINTING (73%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (68%) LABOR; ETHICS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%)

PERSON: KOEPPEL, DAVID

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



212 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 13; Column 1; Television; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: FOR YOUNG VIEWERS; 
Survivor: The Disney Version

BYLINE:  By Kathryn Shattuck 

 BODY:
SCHOOL'S out at Lawrence Junior High, which means Louis and Ren Stevens -- teenage siblings and each other's worst enemy -- are about to spin out of control.
 Although the terrible twosome usually has out their differences on "Even Stevens," the Disney Channel's award-winning comedy series (shown Mondays through Thursdays at 6:30 p.m.), this particular tempest is a feature-length production. 
 In "The Even Stevens Movie," which has its premiere Friday night at 8, Louis (Shia La Beouf) and Ren (Christy Carlson Romano) find themselves and their family nearly washed out to sea.
 When a mystery man offers the Stevenses an all-expense-paid vacation to an uncharted island paradise, it sounds too goo to be true -- until they weigh their options. Eileen Stevens, mother and state senator, is on break. Steve Stevens, father and lawyer, is unemployed. Dim-witted Donnie is waiting for college to begin and his football scholarship to kick in. Ren, class valedictorian, is mending a broken heart. And Louis is already up to his usual mischief.
 Suddenly, seven days on an unspoiled island doesn't sound so bad. At least not until Louis alienates the islanders, sending the Stevenses out for food, shelter and a little blood when they discover that their mystery man has invaded paradise and put up a movie lot and they are the unwitting participants in a new reality show.
In typical fashion, the Stevenses don't just get mad. They get even.
 The first Disney Channel original movie to be inspired by one of its own comedy series, "The Even Stevens Movie" was "a fantastic experience," Ms. Romano said, talking by cellphone on a weekday morning as she drove through Greenwich Village in Manhattan between auditions. The beach on the island of Oahu, Hawaii, where it was filmed, is "the most beautiful place I've ever seen," she said.
 Now 19, Ms. Romano has virtually come of age on the channel, where she has not only portrayed Ren for three years (with 65 more new episodes in the can) but also lends her voice to the title role in the animated series "Kim Possible" and was featured in "Cadet Kelly," an original movie starring her fellow Disney princess Hilary Duff of "Lizzie McGuire."
 "It looks like everyone on the Disney Channel is moving to the feature side, and they're supported very heavily by the studio," she said, singling out Mr. LaBoeuf, who recently made his feature film debut in "Holes" and will be seen next in "Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle" and "The Battle of Shaker Heights," produced by Ben Affleck, Matt Damon and Chris Moore as part of Project Greenlight.
 As for Ms. Romano, her real-life apple doesn't fall far from Ren Steven's high-achieving tree. After completing her freshman year at Columbia University's Barnard College, where she is majoring in political science with an emphasis on human rights, she will work as an intern in Washington for Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, her home state.
 "I was given the choice after high school of staying in Los Angeles to act or of coming back here to go to college," she said. "And so I made the decision to go to school to supplement my acting career. It just seemed the smartest, most responsible, most intellectual thing to do."
 - Kathryn Shattuck

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above: Christy Carlson Romano. Left: Donna Pescow with Shia LaBeouf (near left) and Nick Spano. Below (back row, from left): Shia LaBeouf, Nick Spano, Tom Virtue and donna Pescow. Below (front row, from left): Christy Carlson Romano, Tim Meadows and Steven Anthony Lawrence. (Photographs from Disney) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (89%); FILM (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (79%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (79%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); CLASS RANKING (74%); ANIMATION (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) TELEVISION 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (85%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (58%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (85%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (85%)

PERSON: MATT DAMON (56%); HILARY DUFF (56%) SHATTUCK, KATHRYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) HAWAII, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: EVEN STEVENS MOVIE, THE (TV PROGRAM)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2003 



213 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Sahr MuhammedAlly, Russell Dyk

 BODY:
Sahr MuhammedAlly, a daughter of Nilofur and Baqi MuhammedAlly of Toronto, was married on Wednesday to Russell Dyk, the son of Sandy and Jim Dyk of Richmond, Va. Victor L. Robles, the city clerk of New York, officiated at the Municipal Building in Manhattan. 
This evening, Dr. Ramezan Dowlati, a religion teacher at the Razi School in Queens, will perform a Muslim ceremony at Loft Eleven, a party space in Manhattan.
 The bride, 30, is an associate in the New York office of Gibbons, Del Deo, Dolan, Griffinger & Vecchione, a New Jersey law firm. She graduated from Mount Holyoke College and cum laude from Brooklyn Law School. Her father retired as the director of legal services in Markham, Ontario, for the Canadian unit of the Singer Company, the sewing machine manufacturer. Her mother was an interior designer at Legacy Mirror & Decor, a Toronto store that closed in February. 
 The bridegroom, 34, is a vice president for energy derivatives sales in Manhattan with Deutsche Bank. He graduated from the Colorado School of Mines and received a master's degree in international economics from Johns Hopkins. His mother is a respiratory therapist at Columbia Henrico's Doctors Hospital in Richmond. His father retired as a vice principal of Clover Hill High School in Midlothian, Va. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (94%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (76%); INTERIOR DECORATING (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RELIGION (71%); MISC INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (53%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: MUHAMMEDALLY, SAHR (SAHR DYK); DYK, RUSSELL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



214 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
Networks Open Doors For Small Companies

BYLINE:  By ANNE FIELD 

 BODY:
JERRY BLAINE felt as if he were chipping away at a brick wall. On and off for two years, his sales staff tried to get through to a major New York-based company to pitch his business, LDI/Color Tool Box, which sells and services copiers and printing equipment.
 "We made at least 50 phone calls and sent them four mailings," he recalled. "We got nowhere." 
 But earlier this year, he snagged a multimillion-dollar deal with the company -- though not by redoubling his efforts to get in through the front door. Instead, he sneaked in through the back, via a New York referral group called the Metropolitan Business Network.
It turns out that a fellow member of the network, whom he had gotten to know pretty well since joining it in 1999, saw LDI as a potential partner in running the entire printing department at the company that Mr. Blaine had long been eyeing. He suggested that LDI pitch its services to a division of his company, Bowne & Company, a New York-based provider of document printing and copying services with $1 billion in annual revenue.
Mr. Blaine, the owner of LDI, did not have to be asked twice. Over the next few months, he made several three-hour presentations to Bowne's executive committee and talked at length with the prospective client. In August, he got the word: the two businesses had won the contract, involving 17 locations across the country. It was worth about $5 million for LDI, increasing its annual revenue by 15 percent overnight.
"I wouldn't have heard about this opportunity if it weren't for my membership in the group," Mr. Blaine said. "And, in this economy, that's especially helpful."
Small and medium-size businesses have always relied on energy and flexibility to do battle against giant corporations. But entrepreneurial drive alone is rarely enough to keep them growing; they need contacts. An increasing number of their chief executives are joining networking organizations like Mr. Blaine's to meet people who can help them snare deals.
Management experts say most cities have at least one such business-referral group, and some have several. Mark Washum, the co-founder of the 10-year-old Prestonwood Business Networking Group in Dallas, for example, says the number of applicants for membership has almost doubled in the past year. Prestonwood now has 45 members, up from 35 two years ago.
The wobbly economy is fueling the growth, Mr. Washum said. Group meetings, generally weekly or every other week, allow the members, usually owners or top managers of businesses, to talk about deals they are pursuing and seek help in getting them. A result is often an entree to companies that might otherwise be difficult or impossible to reach.
"You gain instant credibility," said Mark McDaniel, 35, owner of Remarkable Affairs Catering in Dallas and a member of Prestonwood. Mr. McDaniel says 90 percent of his business comes from contacts made through the organization.
Meetings at these networking groups tend to follow similar formats. A recent breakfast meeting of the Metropolitan Business Network at the Harvard Club in Manhattan began with brief introductions by each of the approximately 40 participants.
That was followed by expressions of gratitude by about 15 members for recent favors received from their colleagues. After that, there was a presentation by a prospective member. Then the meat of the session -- "business in progress" -- was served up: a dozen or so people named companies and individuals they were trying to meet.
MOST business groups allow only one representative from an industry, to prevent jockeying among competitors. But members in complementary businesses -- say, a commercial real estate firm and a mortgage broker -- are not only welcome, but generally work well together.
Some clubs are more exclusive than others. Many require only that newcomers be nominated by a member and be approved by a majority vote. But at the Business Forum, which operates in 15 cities, candidates must hold senior management positions; in cities like Los Angeles and Boston, candidates must have incomes of at least $450,000.
Once accepted, a member has to produce results. At the Business Forum, members must generate three to five leads a quarter. Prestonwood members are required to hold one-on-one business discussions with at least 10 fellow members a year.
These informal sessions can be fruitful. Mr. McDaniel, for example, had a lunch with a fellow member whose wife worked for a big corporation he was hoping to do business with. A few weeks later, she introduced him to its head of catering, and he now gets $50,000 in business a year from the company.
Such leads from friends and relatives of other members are common. At a meeting last year of a local networking group, Paul Jackson, the chief executive of Jackson Comfort Systems, a heating and air-conditioning supplier in Northfield, Ohio, mentioned that he had been trying for years to do business with Kent State University, which is nearby.
Soon, another member put him in touch with his brother, who had a high-level job in Kent State's purchasing department. The brother then set up a meeting with the chief engineer. After a four-month trial run, Mr. Jackson signed a $60,000 deal with the university.
While direct business leads are the lifeblood of these groups, members find other benefits. Stephanie Davis, 39, a director of the executive search firm Spencer Stuart in Los Angeles, says she has not won much new business in two years at the Business Forum but has no regrets. "It's useful from a branding perspective," she said. "My name is known as the person in the L.A. market who does senior executive search."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerry Blaine, founder of LDI/Color Tool Box, says a networking group helped him find new business in servicing printing equipment. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (77%); PHOTOCOPIERS (77%); QUICK PRINTING (77%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (64%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: LDI/COLOR TOOL BOX 

TICKER: RRD (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (84%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (84%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (84%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (84%)

PERSON: FIELD, ANNE

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



215 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 8

HEADLINE: EVENING HOURS; 
Partying Between The Raindrops

BYLINE:  By Bill Cunningham 

 BODY:

CORRECTION-DATE: June 15, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in the Evening Hours column last Sunday about a benefit for the Americas Society at Lincoln Center on June 3 misstated the given name of the wife of William J. McDonough, chairman of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in Washington, who was shown with her husband and Guillermo de la Dehesa. She is Suzanne McDonough, not Susan. She was also misidentified in the columns of April 20 of this year and Oct. 6, 2002. 
The caption also misstated the name of another guest, who was pictured alone. She is Adriana Cisneros Phelps, not Adriana Phelps Cisneros.

GRAPHIC: Photos: June 3: The Americas Society held its 23rd annual benefit in the tent at Lincoln Center. The society examines economic, political and social issues affecting the hemisphere. 1. PATRICIA PHELPS CISNEROS. 2. From left, DAVID ROCKEFELLER, the founder of the society, GUSTAVO A. CISNEROS, who was honored, and WILLIAM R. RHODES, chairman of the society. 3. From left, GUILLERMO DE LA DEHESA, SUSAN McDONOUGH and WILLIAM J. McDONOUGH. 4. ADRIANA PHELPS CISNEROS. 5. AHMET ERTEGUN and MICA ERTEGUN.; June 2: The Council of Fashion Designers of America held its annual awards gala for 500 guests at the New York Public Library. 6. From left, CASEY RIBICOFF, MICHAEL GROVEMAN and CYNTHIA ROWLEY. 7. Left and right, LAZARO HERNANDEZ and JACK McCOLLOUGH, who were honored, with MARISA TOMEI. 8. MARY McFADDEN and OLEG CASSINI, who was honored. 9. BEE SHAFFER and her mother, ANNA WINTOUR.; June 2: Jazz at Lincoln Center held its annual benefit concert and dinner in a tent beside the Apollo Theater in Harlem. The dinner, attended by 830, raised $1.2 million. 10. From left, LAURENCE FISHBURNE, DAVID N. DINKINS and ALBERT MURRAY. 11. From left, SHERRY BRONFMAN, WYNTON MARSALIS and LEONARD RIGGIO. 12. From left, DINA MERRILL, SARAH SMITH and her grandmother, JUNE NOBLE LARKIN. 13. EDWARD T. LEWIS, left, and HUGHLYN F. FIERCE, president of the organization.; June 4: The Central Park Conservancy held its annual food tasting and benefit in a downpour at the Bethesda Fountain. 14. JANET MICK, one of 1,000 guests, straddles a puddle. 15. Guests head to a tent housing 37 participating restaurants.; June 5: The peonies were in bloom as guests arrived for the annual New York Botanical Garden ball, which was attended by 650 guests, many of the women wearing floral prints. The evening raised $1.5 million. 16. WHITNEY FAIRCHILD and JAMES FAIRCHILD. 17. Guests in the garden. 18. SUSAN BURKE and COLEMAN P. BURKE. 19. AUDREY GRUSS. 20. From left, ADAM R. ROSE, FRIEDERIKE BIGGS and Mayor MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG. 21. SHEILA STEPHENSON.; June 4: Sesame Workshop celebrated its 35th anniversary with 600 guests and raised $1 million. 22. GLENN CLOSE smooches with OSCAR. 23. From left, KOFI ANNAN, NANE ANNAN and JOAN GANZ COONEY, a founder of the producer of "Sesame Street."; June 2: The Museum of Modern Art held its annual Party in the Garden at the Metropolitan Pavilion, a party space on West 18th Street. Four hundred and fifty guests had dinner, and 400 more attended an after-dinner dance. More than $1 million was raised. 24. ROBERT B. MENSCHEL, president of the museum, and BEATRIX MEDINGER. 25. JUDITH GIULIANI and RUDOLPH W. GIULIANI, who was honored. 26. KATHERINE FARLEY and her husband, JERRY I. SPEYER. 27. CAROL MACK and RONALD LAUDER. 28. DAVID ROCKEFELLER and his granddaughter MIRANDA DUNCAN. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC LIBRARIES (86%) PARTIES (SOCIAL); PHILANTHROPY 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAS SOCIETY (59%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (59%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (59%)

PERSON: GUSTAVO CISNEROS (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (74%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) CUNNINGHAM, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (59%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



216 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR; 
New York's Olympic Promoters Recruit a 9-Iron Fund-Raiser

BYLINE:  By Patrick McGeehan (COMPILED BY MARK A. STEIN) 

 BODY:
If New York City is the host for the 2012 Olympic Games, don't be surprised to see golf added to the mix of running, jumping, swimming and other sports. The campaign to raise money for the bid will be led by John J. Mack, the chief executive of Credit Suisse First Boston, who is a North Carolina native and a certified golf nut. 
 The bid committee, known as NYC2012, has named Mr. Mack vice chairman, making him the ranking member of its large board, which includes Kenneth Cole and David H. Komansky, former chairman of Merrill Lynch. (It has not yet chosen a chairman.) 
 Mr. Mack will marshal efforts to raise $30 million by July 2005, when the International Olympic Committee will make its final choice. London, Paris, Moscow and Havana are also expected to bid.
"Bringing the Olympics to New York City will have a powerful positive impact on the spirit, economy and global standing of our city and the entire nation," Mr. Mack said. Patrick McGeehan

GRAPHIC: Photo: John J. Mack 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (94%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (88%); APPOINTMENTS (87%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%) OLYMPIC GAMES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; OLYMPIC GAMES (2012); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); FINANCES 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (56%) NYC2012 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: JOHN J MACK (91%) MCGEEHAN, PATRICK; MACK, JOHN J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (58%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



217 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Defining Martha Stewart's Alleged Crime

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
AT first glance, Martha Stewart, queen of artfully distressed home furnishings, might not seem to have much in common with Michael R. Milken, one-time king of junk bonds.
 But last Tuesday, a federal grand jury indicted Ms. Stewart on charges of conspiracy, securities fraud and obstruction of justice, accusing her of lying to government investigators about her 2001 sale of shares in ImClone, a biotechnology company. Overnight, Ms. Stewart became the most controversial white-collar defendant since Mr. Milken, who in 1990 pleaded guilty to six criminal charges for securities law violations. Mr. Milken served two years in jail and paid a $600 million fine, but many conservatives defended him, arguing that he had been singled out by prosecutors more for the money he had made and the economic dislocations his bonds had caused than for any actual crimes. 
 The case against Ms. Stewart has not yet become as ideologically charged. But already, some of the same institutions who backed Mr. Milken, like The Wall Street Journal's editorial page, have noted that Ms. Stewart has not been criminally charged with insider trading, for which she was initially investigated. The Journal compared her offenses to fibbing about speeding. And given the lack of insider-trading charges, some criminal defense lawyers say that she has been unfairly pursued.
At the core of the Stewart debate is whether prosecutors are abusing their discretion when they charge people with lying to them, even though no charge is brought against the defendant on the suspected crime that triggered the investigation.
Prosecutors say they sought charges against Ms. Stewart because she repeatedly lied during their investigation. Many legal experts note that prosecutors regularly seek indictments of people or companies for destroying evidence or impeding investigations even if they cannot prove other charges. "Even if she didn't commit insider trading, if the allegations that she tried to make false statements to the Justice Department are true, that is terribly serious," said Joel Seligman, dean of Washington University Law School in St. Louis.
Insider trading is hard to prove. To be convicted, a person must have bought or sold a stock based on material information that is both unknown to the general public and likely to have had an important effect on a company's stock price. Ms. Stewart allegedly sold her ImClone stock after learning from her broker at Merrill Lynch that Samuel D. Waksal, ImClone's chief executive, had told Merrill to sell his shares. That information was not public but was it "material"? Corporate executives often buy or sell shares in their companies, and stocks rarely rise or fall significantly when those transactions are reported. 
The grand jury indictment instead accuses her, and Peter E. Bacanovic, her Merrill Lynch broker, of lying repeatedly to Securities and Exchange Commission investigators, prosecutors and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. (In a civil complaint, the S.E.C., which has a lower standard of proof than prosecutors, has charged Ms. Stewart with insider trading.) The complaint charges that they concocted a story that she had decided to sell the stock if it fell below $60. To support the story, the complaint says, Ms. Stewart falsified a telephone log. In accusing Ms. Stewart of securities fraud, the indictment pointed to statements she or her lawyer made proclaiming her innocence to try to stop or slow the slide of her company's stock price. 
Ms. Stewart can be charged with lying to prosecutors or to other government officials, even if she was not under oath, under a little-known federal law that lawyers call 1001, for its section number in the United States criminal code. Criminal defense lawyers argue that the law is overly broad. Section 1001 is "dangerous because it gives the government enormous latitude to engage in what might be categorized as a vengeful prosecution," said Kevin Marino, a New Jersey defense lawyer. "When you look more closely at the indictment, you realize she's being indicted for the temerity for not shooting straight at the government in an attempt to protect her image."
But the prosecutors acted appropriately, said Ira Lee Sorkin, a New York defense lawyer and former prosecutor. Prosecutors rarely seek charges against someone who lied to them once, Mr. Sorkin said. Only if they see a pattern of deception, will charges be brought. "They're going to try to piece together a variety of different acts that constitute a consistent pattern of misrepresenting what happened here," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 15, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about criminal charges against Martha Stewart misstated the amount that Michael R. Milken was fined in a 1990 securities case. It was $200 million, not $600 million. Mr. Milken also paid $400 million in civil restitution to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

GRAPHIC: Photo: What does Michael Milken, center, have in common with Martha Stewart? He also defended himself against controversial charges. (Marilyn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GRAND JURY (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); BONDS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TRENDS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); EVIDENCE (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (57%) STOCKS AND BONDS; INSIDER TRADING 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: IMCLONE SYSTEMS INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (92%); MARTHA STEWART (91%) MILKEN, MICHAEL R; STEWART, MARTHA; BERENSON, ALEX

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (52%) MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



218 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: The World: The Whys of War; 
Truth Is the First Casualty. Is Credibility the Second?

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THERE is a saying here that wars tend to be fought three times. First comes the battle over whether to go to war. Second is the war itself. Third is the battle over the war's meaning once it is over.
 Two months after the fall of Baghdad, the third fight is well underway, now that the principal rationale cited by President Bush and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell for war with Iraq -- that Saddam Hussein's possession of chemical and biological weapons posed an imminent threat -- remains clouded by doubt. No chemical and biological weapons have been found, and some experts say they will never be found. 
 Before the war, Senator Joseph Biden of Delaware, ranking Democratic member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said that the administration was exaggerating its case for war -- a war he supported. He cited administration statements that Iraq was "on the verge" of getting nuclear weapons, when in fact it was not close. Also overstated, he said, were the existence of actual chemical and biological weapons and Iraq's links to terrorism. 
"It's pretty clear that different administration officials overstated their case," said Kenneth M. Pollack, an Iraq expert at the Saban Center of the Brookings Institution and a member of the National Security Council in the Clinton administration, who was a leading advocate of going to war with Saddam Hussein.
Public opinion surveys suggest that the failure to find these weapons may have little effect on the support Americans have given to Mr. Bush and his conduct of the war, particularly since weapons experts have found evidence for what appear to have been programs and facilities to make chemical and biological arms. Still, if such weapons are not found, some historians, politicians and others worry about what might happen if Mr. Bush or a successor tried to rally American or international backing for another war -- say, with Iran or North Korea -- using disputed evidence to buttress the case. 
So far, said John Lewis Gaddis, a professor of military history at Yale, it appears the administration's intelligence findings about the existence of weapons of mass destruction were either inaccurate or deliberately exaggerated. Either way, he said, "it has an impact on our credibility -- the next time there is a crisis, our credibility is going to be questioned, just as it was for Lyndon Baines Johnson at the Gulf of Tonkin."
In 1964, the United States asserted that North Vietnamese torpedo boats carried out unprovoked attacks on two American destroyers in the gulf. Today it is known that some sort of attack did occur, which President Johnson exaggerated, perhaps unintentionally, in his quest for a Congressional resolution that authorized what turned out to be a steady escalation of the Vietnam War. Along with the military's countless claims that the war was being won, the Gulf of Tonkin resolution led to the "credibility gap" that became the president's downfall.
The lesson would appear to be that while false or overblown pretexts for war can work, they may also backfire if a war turns bad. 
In 1898, the battleship Maine blew up in Havana Harbor. The blast killed 260 crew members and provoked Congress to declare war on Spain. Historians now generally agree that the explosion was an accident and that President William McKinley and Congress surely did not know the truth at the time. And historians argue that the American march toward becoming a global power would have occurred with or without the Spanish-American War.
This episode contrasts with a well-known case of a deliberate distortion that led to war. In 1870, Kaiser Wilhelm I sent Chancellor Otto von Bismarck of Prussia a report on his conversation with a French diplomat. Bismarck edited the message to make it seem more provocative than it was, simply to rally German support for a war with France. Bismarck got the Franco-Prussian War, and victory.
Still, few historians would contend that a doctored report caused the rise of German nationalism and territorial aggrandizement. And the immediate provocations for a war may in any case bear little relation to its deep-seated causes. Experts, for example, still argue about whether slavery or diverging economic differences led to the Civil War.
HISTORIANS also look skeptically on the most earnest reasons for war. In 1917, President Woodrow Wilson took the nation into World War I by portraying it as a crusade against autocracy, even as he allied himself with Czarist Russia and two powers, France and Britain, that were more interested in imperial expansion than democracy. 
The American involvement in Iraq seems to be a case of an "overdetermined" war. Though chemical and biological weapons were the main reason presented to the public, they were never the only reason cited. Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul L. Wolfowitz, in a recent interview in Vanity Fair, cited the Iraqi regime's support of terrorism and its brutal treatment of the Iraqi peopleas reasons for the conflict, though he said the brutality by itself would not have justified war.
Other administration officials argue that the war was about sending a message to the Muslim world that the United States will not tolerate violence against Americans or American interests. Still others argue that establishing a democratic Iraq will spread democracy and stability throughout the region, ultimately enabling Israel to live in peace. 
There are those who argue that President Bush, perhaps unconsciously, was settling a score left unsettled in the Persian Gulf war by his father. And historians will surely look closely at the need of the United States to secure access to the world's largest oil reserves as a major if wholly unstated factor. America and Iraq's oil, Page 5. 
Finally, there is politics. When the administration spoke of Iraq's "imminent threat," was it in order to wage a war in 2003 -- before the next presidential election? 
It may never be known what political factors went into the private thinking of Mr. Bush and his aides, but the nonexistence of chemical and biological weapons will almost certainly force historians to raise such questions.
In the Bush administration, there is a sense today that it may not matter to Americans whether such weapons are found, and that if the peace is as successful as the war, it may not matter to the world either.
"If we succeed in transforming Iraq into a successful, mostly democratic place, a lot of people will be content with that result, even if we can't find weapons of mass destruction," said a senior American official. "But if we do not succeed in Iraq as much as we want, then this issue becomes more significant."
There lies the rub. What if, after a long and unsuccessful occupation, with Americans combat casualties taking a toll on the national psyche, the question "Why are we in Iraq?" becomes the modern equivalent of "Why are we in Vietnam?" Then the issue of the rationale for the war will inevitably come back to the fore.
"I am someone who believes that Saddam Hussein did have these programs," said Samuel R. Berger, President Clinton's national security adviser, referring to the alleged Iraqi drive to make chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. "But whether the weapons were destroyed, or hidden, or we have an intelligence problem, we have to find the answer. Our credibility in the world depends on it. A democracy cannot and should not go to war under false or incorrect premises."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Knickerbocker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (89%); HISTORY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); MILITARY VESSELS (66%); TERRORISM (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); JOHN LEWIS (56%); JOE BIDEN (56%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WEISMAN, STEVEN R 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); VIET NAM (51%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



219 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Testing the Deflation Zone

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
The prospect of deflation -- falling prices -- has haunted investors and policy makers during the economy's recent stalls. In remarks on Tuesday to a group of bankers, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, called the risk of deflation small but warned that its consequences could be fearsome. 
 Prices can fall for several reasons. When better technology makes delivering a product or service cheaper, competition can drive down prices to reflect lower costs. The same thing can happen when prices drop for raw materials. 
 But falling prices can also reflect expectations of economic weakness. When consumers and businesses lose their appetite for nonessential products, their suppliers often lower prices to tempt them to spend more. Anticipation of even lower prices in the future, however, can lead people to delay spending further. In the worst-case outlook, the economy begins to implode.
 Because of the diversity of the economy, prices behave differently across sectors and geographical areas. In April, a hint of deflation was widespread. Prices for urban consumers fell in all four major regions tracked by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Among major categories of goods and services, only medical care became more expensive.
 Economists, including Mr. Greenspan, generally pay the most attention, however, to prices for housing. In the government's price index for urban consumers, housing receives almost 41 percent of the statistical weight. And from March to April, housing prices dropped for the first time in 18 months.
 Still, it may be too early to worry about the direst sort of deflation. In April, according to a survey by the University of Michigan, consumers still expected overall prices to rise 2.4 percent this year. If the economy can avoid shocks like war and corporate scandals, they may yet be proved right. DANIEL ALTMAN

GRAPHIC: Charts Annually, prices are rising slowly . . .Change in consumer prices from previous year, monthly Graph tracks monthly change on all items, excluding food and energy, since 1958. . . . but prices fell from March to AprilChange in consumer prices from March to April; regional figures are not seasonally adjusted U.S. AVERAGE: -0.3%MIDWEST: -0.4%NORTHEAST: -0.2%SOUTH: -0.1%WEST: -0.3% Consumer price change by category for AprilWith specific examples; figures are seasonally adjusted HOUSINGAPRIL'S CHANGE FROM MARCH: -0.1%SHARE OF TOTAL C.P.I.: 40.85% Owners' equivalent of rent for primary home: Unch.Rent, primary home: +0.3%Household furnishings and operations: -0.2%Fuel oil, gas, electricity: -1.2% TRANSPORTATIONAPRIL'S CHANGE FROM MARCH: -1.7%SHARE OF TOTAL C.P.I.: 17.29% New and used motor vehicles: -0.4%Gasoline: -8.3%Vehicle insurance: +1.2%Vehicle maintenance and repair: +0.3%Airline fare: +0.9% FOOD AND BEVERAGESAPRIL'S CHANGE FROM MARCH: -0.1%SHARE OF TOTAL C.P.I.: 15.58% Food away from home: +0.1%Meats, poultry, fish: +0.7%Cereals and bakery products: -0.5%Fruits and vegetables: -1.4% MEDICAL CAREAPRIL'S CHANGE FROM MARCH: +0.2%SHARE OF TOTAL C.P.I.: 5.96% Physicians' services: +0.2%Hospital services: +0.2%Prescription drugs and medical supplies: -0.1%Dental services: +0.4% RECREATIONAPRIL'S CHANGE FROM MARCH: -0.1%SHARE OF TOTAL C.P.I.: 5.94% Cable television: +0.4%Admission to movies, theaters, concerts and sports events: -0.9%Pets, pet products and services: +0.3%Toys: -0.6% EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATIONAPRIL'S CHANGE FROM MARCH: -0.2%SHARE OF TOTAL C.P.I.: 5.80% Telephone services: -1.0%College tuition and fees: +0.6%Child care and nursery school: +0.7%Personal computers and peripherals: -1.6% APPARELAPRIL'S CHANGE FROM MARCH: -0.6%SHARE OF TOTAL C.P.I.: 4.22% Women's and girls' apparel: -0.4%Men's and boys' apparel: -0.9%Footwear: -0.8%Jewelry, watches: +0.5% OTHER GOODS AND SERVICESAPRIL'S CHANGE FROM MARCH: +0.3%SHARE OF TOTAL C.P.I.: 4.35% Cigarettes: +0.2%Haircuts and other personal care: +0.3%Personal care products: +0.5%Laundry and dry cleaning: +0.2% Graphs track change in inflation and deflation from previous month for all categories since 2000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); STATISTICS (72%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); SCANDALS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (88%) ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



220 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: In Fight Over Online Music, Industry Now Offers a Carrot 

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
Like a lot of music fans roaming the Internet these days, David Bishop registers one basic sentiment when he thinks about the record industry. "They're a bunch of greedheads," he says. "They've been really fat on what I think of as huge profits and now they're trying to maintain the status quo."
 Mr. Bishop is not your typical college-dormitory Internet pirate. A 49-year-old illustrator in San Rafael, Calif., he has steered scrupulously clear of file-sharing software like Napster and KaZaA. But he recently discovered how to play the music provided by other online fans without copying it, and has no compunction about flouting recent efforts to stamp out the practice. 
 "I'm not doing anything wrong," he insists. 
Until recently, music executives have largely failed to acknowledge the millions of individuals, from teenage Eminem fans to Elvis-obsessed baby boomers, who have joined in what amounts to an online rebellion against the industry by some of its most important customers. Hoping to end Internet music piracy by ridding the world of the technologies that make it possible, they have so far focused on legal battles against KaZaA and its many brethren.
But for the first time in the Internet file-sharing wars, record industry executives have in recent weeks started to address music fans directly, both offering carrots and wielding sticks to persuade people to buy their product again. How well they succeed is likely to determine the way music is produced and consumed for years to come.
"The technology has destabilized us, it has hurt us," said Doug Morris, the chief executive of the Universal Music Group, a unit of Vivendi Universal and the largest of the five major record companies. "But now it's going to take us to new heights."
The industry is pursuing lawsuits against music pirates but is also offering new ways to legally listen to and buy music online through deals like a recent alliance with Apple Computer.
That prospect may be difficult to achieve. Forty-three million Americans -- half of those who connected to the Internet -- used file-sharing software last month that allows people to copy music without paying for it, according to a survey by the NPD Group, a market research firm. The file-sharing program KaZaA, which rose in popularity after the record industry won its lawsuit against Napster, has been downloaded more than 270 million times, more than any other free program available on CNet's Download.com site.
The migration of music from shiny disks to the online arena has personalized debates about intellectual property rights once reserved for lawyers, turning passive consumers into political activists in increasingly large numbers. Having discovered the virtues of the new online form, many people are demanding the freedom to sample, trade and make available music in ways that were never before possible.
Some of those ways, like making unauthorized copies of hundreds of copyrighted songs without paying for them, are clearly not legal. Others may be the subject of a negotiation that the music industry is beginning to accept it may have to enter into.
"I have rights to listen to my music the way I want to," said William Raleigh, 33, a marketing manager in Los Angeles who says he never buys music produced by the major record labels, preferring to reserve his acquisitions for independent bands that sell CD's through the Web site CD Baby. "I'm not a criminal if I want to share it with some friends, and I'm opposed to the technology that tries to restrict my rights as a consumer."
Paul Vidich, an executive vice president with the Warner Music Group, a unit of AOL Time Warner, said that the degree to which people could share their music was a key point in the company's negotiations with Apple. They explored what the equivalent of playing music in a living room full of friends would be in the online world. Would it be O.K. for students in a dormitory room to share music with the room next door? With the whole dormitory?
They settled for now, Mr. Vidich said, on agreeing to allow the ability to share with people under one roof, or a radius of about 150 feet.
"What is personal use, where does it stop, where does pirated use begin?" Mr. Vidich said. "That is one of the questions that this whole Internet phenomenon has opened up and we all need to address it."
In response to a prolonged sales slump and a federal court decision in April that found the companies that distribute the file-sharing programs Morpheus and Grokster were not violating copyright law, record executives now say they are girding themselves for a new era.
They say they are responding more actively to legitimate consumer demands and are willing to brave the backlash that may come from pursuing legal action against individuals for making unauthorized copies of music in their homes.
They are also hoping that relinquishing some control over their product may also ultimately boost their profits. After all, Hollywood movie studios once battled the VCR as a threat to theater attendance -- only to see that technology spawn the hugely successful home video business.
"We've turned the corner," said Andrew Lack, the chief executive of Sony Music Entertainment. "When there weren't legal, good places to go buy music online the activity was cool, but once we get these services up, it's going to change people's behavior."
With the unveiling of the Apple music service in April, the major record firms have overcome much of their fear of cannibalizing compact disc sales with cheaper, easily copied digital downloads. They licensed their catalogs to Apple on more liberal terms than they had in the past, letting the new Apple music service sell songs for 99 cents. In just over a month, the service has sold more than 3 million tracks, far exceeding the record industry's expectations.
Bill Collage, a Sag Harbor, N.Y.-based screenwriter who has regularly used file-swapping software, said he has spent $60 at the Apple store since it opened on April 28.
"It's solved all my problems," Mr. Collage said. "It's so fast, and there's no guilt, no recriminations."
Last month, Sony and Universal sold their jointly owned online music subscription service, Pressplay, to Roxio, the company that purchased Napster's name and assets after it filed for bankruptcy. The Pressplay service, in which the two record labels retain a stake, is expected to be reintroduced soon bearing the Napster name -- an acknowledgment by Sony and Universal that the service would be easier to sell to consumers under the brand that most epitomizes file-sharing.
And RealNetworks announced last month that its subsidiary Listen.com was dropping the price it charges subscribers to its Rhapsody online service to buy songs online to 79 cents.
These efforts to make purchasing music online more consumer friendly are being deployed even as the industry takes more aggressive legal action against online piracy.
After settling lawsuits against four college students accused of running "mini-Napsters" on their college campuses last month, the record industry's trade association is preparing to file lawsuits solely against individuals who have used software programs to let others copy music files from their personal computers.
"We have the right to control the property we own the way we want to," said David Munns, the chief executive of EMI Music North America. "To be successful I have to listen to what the consumer is telling me, but if that means me going broke that's not the answer. You've got to do what you've got to do."
The industry's position was bolstered by a ruling last week by a federal appeals court that forced Verizon Communications, a major Internet service provider, to hand over the names of four individuals whom the record industry suspects of illegally trading music using KaZaA.
The first lawsuits are likely to be filed this summer. "We're going to continue to address this with harsher and harsher means," said Mr. Morris of Universal. "If people are criminals I'm not concerned about alienating them."
As the file-sharing era has unfolded, Mr. Morris and other top record executives have largely remained silent, letting the leaders of its trade association, the Recording Industry of Association of America, speak out against piracy and field the fury of many music fans. (The association's Web site has become a favorite target of computer hackers). 
Several executives said they have been spurred to take a more public role now because of persistent misperceptions about the costs of their business. Consumers think CD's are too expensive, they say, only because they don't realize how much the labels spend developing and promoting new artists, the vast majority of whom never sell enough to make back the investment. 
Those costs have grown as radio stations have consolidated and stores like Wal-Mart, with less shelf space for CD's, are replacing stand-alone record stores as the main retail outlet for music, record executives say. Part of the industry's new strategy is to create a consumer education campaign on music industry economics.
Meanwhile, the industry's critics are calling for a more radical restructuring of the way music is distributed online. The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco-based civil liberties group, is organizing a campaign to rally students to push Congress to create alternative approaches that would legalize some forms of file-sharing.
One would require record companies to license their entire catalogs to anyone who wants them for a fee set by the government. Another approach would levy a tax on Internet service providers and, perhaps, other related businesses to create a fund that would be used to compensate copyright holders based on a measure of how frequently individual songs are downloaded. For consumers, the tax would be less noticeable than directly charging for the music.
"Right now copyright law is broken and the music industry is bullying everybody into being scared," said Shari Steele, the foundation's executive director. "There are new ways of distributing music that don't require the record companies to be a part of it."
For its campaign, the group has paid for an advertisement, to be published in Rolling Stone and other publications next month, showing five people standing in a lineup with headphones on. "Tired of being treated like a criminal for sharing music online?" it reads. "Filesharing is music to our ears." 
Roger Ames, the chief executive of Warner Music Group, said any plan that handed control of the industry's licensing to the government would simply shrink its revenues and prevent it from financing artist careers. As for the taxation idea: "It sounds like communism," Mr. Ames added. 
However unlikely Congress may be to order the music industry to act differently, some analysts and many music fans argue that the record labels need to do more to wean people away from file-sharing services. For better or worse, the Internet file-trading bonanza of recent years has given lovers of popular music a taste of what it means to have near-instant access to almost anything created by their favorite performers for free, to use their personal computers as listening stations, to burn their own music mixes on CD's and e-mail songs to their friends.
"There's a lifestyle issue about how people want to use music that has been missed," said Russ Crupnick, vice president of the music division of NPD. "The industry needs to reconnect with consumers and understand what they are seeing here besides the free part."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Doug Morris, the chief of the Universal Music Group, says that while technology has destabilized record companies, it may now help them. (pg. 42) Chart: "Still Downloading"Even as Napster, a software system that allowed users to share music online, has collapsed because of legal challenges from the record industry, decentralized filesharing programs like KaZaA have taken over its role. The industry contends that the rise of online music swapping has contributed to the decline of album sales. Graph tracks the number of Napster and Kazaa users, measured in millions, for 2001 and first three quarters of 2002. Graph tracks number of album shipments, measured in billions, from 1989 to 2002. (Sources: comScore Media Metrix; Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.; Recording Industry Association of America)(pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (92%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECORD REVENUES (90%); INTERNET AUDIO (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MUSIC (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTERNET CRIME (89%); LITIGATION (85%); MARKET RESEARCH (84%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (84%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); ROYALTIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (69%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (66%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%) MUSIC; INDUSTRY PROFILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); ROYALTIES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (81%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%) KAZAA (CO); NAPSTER; APPLE COMPUTER INC 

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (81%); VIV (BIT) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (81%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (53%)

PERSON: DOUG MORRIS (66%) MORRIS, DOUG; VIDICH, PAUL; HARMON, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



221 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1781 words

HEADLINE: At Hospitals, A Cushion For the Poor 

BYLINE:  By JANE GORDON

 BODY:
MARIA TORRES works in a convenience store in East Hartford. She does not have insurance, and last month she felt pains in her chest. She waited for three weeks, then went to the emergency room at Hartford Hospital. Once there, Ms. Torres said, a worker at a desk asked her if she had insurance. She didn't.
 "I can't afford a doctor," Ms. Torres said. "And they didn't tell me about free care. My sister told me about it. It's the first time I've ever heard of these things." 
 According to the Census Bureau, almost 350,000 Connecticut residents did not have health insurance. And like Ms. Torres, many of them had never heard of the free-bed funds that are available at 21 hospitals in the state for patients who cannot pay. The funds totaled about $120 million in 2001. 
That lack of knowledge is the subject of a dispute that has been simmering for more than 10 years, beginning with a report and reprimand from the Connecticut state attorney general's office in the early 1990's to hospitals that the attorney general perceived were misusing their free-bed funds. Then two years ago, an article appeared in the Advocate of New Haven that detailed Yale-New Haven Hospital's collection practices against debtors, most of whom were poor, and that discussed a free-bed fund that had grown at the time to $37 million and became part of the hospital's endowment.
In January of this year, the Connecticut Center for a New Economy, a nonprofit anti-poverty organization that focuses on issues related to the urban working poor, published a report by a researcher from the New England Health Care Employees Union District 1199, which represents some workers at the hospital. The report picked apart Yale-New Haven's use of its free-bed funds. The report documented numerous cases where the hospital and its collection agencies pursued debtors -- most often uninsured and too poor to pay the monthly amount Yale-New Haven had decided upon -- to the point where the hospital was filing lawsuits, attaching liens to houses and garnishing wages at a rate untouched by other hospitals in the state. 
A month later, state Attorney General Richard Blumenthal sued Yale-New Haven. He also put other hospitals with free-bed funds on notice that he was planning to investigate them, too.
"Certainly there's enough evidence to investigate further," Mr. Blumenthal said. "Whether there are violations of law, we have not concluded."
Mr. Blumenthal is not the only one looking closely at how hospitals care for the poor. Building Parent Power, a public health care advocacy group in Hartford, sent people into four Hartford-area hospitals in 2002 and 2003 to judge the availability and quality of free-care information. The group's report, "Holes in Our Safety Net: The Difficulty of Accessing Hospital Free Care in Hartford, Connecticut," called for changes in the way information is disseminated. Although informational signs are posted regarding free care in Hartford Hospital, the Connecticut Children's Medical Center, St. Francis Hospital and Health Center and the University of Connecticut Health Center, callers were told no written information was available on free care, pamphlets were nonexistent, and staffs lacked knowledge on the topic, the report said. Those who did not speak fluent English were generally unable to get information. 
The report requested clearly written free-care policies with consistent eligibility standards, among several other changes.
"Just the process of getting free care is so complicated," said Yolanda Cruz, an organizer for Building Parent Power. "They are requiring three months worth of bills, information that for many of these people is hard to get." Besides being the catalyst for the study, Ms. Cruz is the sister of Maria Torres, and told her about the free-care options.
Greater scrutiny has led to legislative action, in the form of a bill proposed in February, "An Act Concerning Hospital Practices," that would require an independent auditor to report to the Commissioner of Social Services on the number of applicants, approved applicants and free or reduced-cost services provided in the previous year by each hospital in the state. The bill would serve to lift some of the financial burden from uninsured patients and would require hospitals to improve their system of providing information on free care and free-bed funds.
The state and its municipalities, scrambling for cash from a depressed economy and cuts in federal aid, are also looking closely at the financial perks afforded nonprofit hospitals. The hospitals receive tax exemptions for their nonprofit status, on the expectation that they will provide a somewhat proportionate amount of charitable care to the poor. Many receive millions of dollars from the state in what are called Disproportionate Share Hospital Payments, made to hospitals such as Yale-New Haven and Hartford that care for a disproportionate share of the poor and/or uninsured. Teaching hospitals including Yale-New Haven and the University of Connecticut Health Center also receive Graduate Medical Education money from the state and federal governments. This is in addition to the existence of the free-bed funds, whose use varies according to the hospital. 
Free-bed funds are not common knowledge among the poor, partly because, Mr. Blumenthal and other critics have charged, some hospitals keep them quiet. Nancy Kane, a professor of management at the School of Public Health at Harvard University, said that in the early part of the 20th century, decades before the existence of Medicaid and Medicare, they were far better known. Back then, philanthropists saw that the poor needed money to pay for basic health care. Many of them began contributing to free-bed funds, often started by local churches and used to pay for the actual cost of a bed in a hospital for those who could not afford it. Sometimes hospitals coordinated the money, sometimes churches dispensed them.
Not all hospitals in the state have them, particularly if the hospitals were not in existence when the bed funds became popular. Hartford Hospital has the state's largest, at a little more than $39 million. Although the hospital said it did not know if a worker told Ms. Torres about its fund, Lee Monroe, a spokeswoman, said it is normal procedure for such information to be given to patients who may need help paying their bills. She said pamphlets about free care were also in the emergency room. 
Ms. Monroe said that in the fiscal year 2002, the hospital spent almost $2.5 million out of the fund.
"Many of these funds are controlled by restrictions," she said. "One of our largest is for nurses who have graduated from the Hartford School of Nursing, which is now closed. It's grown to something like $500,000, one of our largest funds. But the person who gets to use it must have graduated from the school of nursing. Thosesorts of restrictions make it difficult to make this money available."
Bridgeport Hospital had $9.2 million in its free-bed fund for fiscal year 2002, and spent $400,000, said Patrick McCabe, the hospital senior vice president for finance.
Fewer than a dozen hospitals in the state do not have free-bed funds, although all nonprofit hospitals provide what is called uncompensated care, or care for which they do not receive payment. Stamford Hospital, for example, which does not have a free-bed fund, provided $4.1 million in uncompensated care in fiscal 2002 and received $2.5 million in state money to help offset that cost. The state does not take into account the existence of a free-bed fund when doling out Disproportionate Care money, even if one hospital such as Yale-New Haven or Hartford has millions for free-bed money at their disposal, and a hospital such as Stamford has nothing. 
Yale-New Haven's total endowment, including the bed fund, is $54 million, said Katie Krauss, a spokeswoman for the hospital. She said that in fiscal 2002, which ended last Sept. 30, the bed fund was $22.9 million. It earned a total of $571,215 in interest and dividends, the exact amount of money that was distributed from the fund. 
"All of the interest earned on these funds is being spent on charitable care," said Marna Borgstrom, Yale-New Haven's chief operating officer. "There is nothing that is not being spent."
The attorney general and others have taken issue with that statement. How donors meant the money to be spent is important, because if they left it to the free-bed fund as part of the hospital's endowment, only the interest was meant to be spent. If the donor left it to the fund as a special-purpose gift, the principal should also be spent, said Ms. Kane of Harvard. 
In either case, the interest would accrue at a rate of about 3 to 5 percent a year, all of which should be spent on the poor, Ms. Kane said. If Yale-New Haven's accounts are indeed making that kind of money, critics said it should have far more money to be spent on free-bed funds than it is indeed spending. (Yale-New Haven said its rate of return on the fund in fiscal 2002 was 2.5 percent.)
"They have used some of the money properly," Mr. Blumenthal said, "but they have failed to use sufficient amounts, and they have created obstacles to people who need such help, obstacles like failing to inform patients about the availability of the funds or requiring them to apply first for government assistance. Instead of using the funds for free medical care, they have permitted the endowment to accumulate. I can't comment on the motive, but the outcome is surely regrettable."
The Rev. Lillian Daniel of Elm City Congregations Organized, which includes 22 congregations throughout the New Haven area, said she and other clergy sought information from Yale-New Haven on how the bed funds worked.
"But I was met with a deafening silence," she said. "There are people the hospital categorized as unwilling to pay, and who we would characterize as unable to pay. I think people have taken pride in the fact that Yale-New Haven Hospital has long helped in care for the poor, but they are patching these people up and sending them home to be crippled by hospital bills and unfair collection processes."
Ms. Kane of Harvard said free-bed funds fell out of favor in the 1960's.
"When Medicare and Medicaid came along, the philanthropic community turned its attention elsewhere," she said. "Everybody thought Medicare and Medicaid would make the free-care need go away. But in recent years, as health care hasgotten more expensive, the need has come back in force." 
That hospitals even have free-bed funds of any magnitude is increasingly rare, Ms. Kane said.
"They are a tiny piece of what is used to cover the cost of what is uninsured," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Torres, right, said she was never told about the free-bed funds available at Hartford Hospital when she went to its emergency room last month. Most hospitals have such funds and the attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, said hospitals need to do a better job telling patients about them. He has sued Yale-New Haven Hospital, above, over its use of the fund. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald and, below, C.M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Hartford Hospital, above, said it is normal procedure to tell patients that free-bed funds are available. At left, the Rev. Lillian Daniel, who said getting such information from hospitals is often difficult. (Douglas Healey for The New York Times); "Just the process of getting free care is so complicated," said Yolanda Cruz, an organizer for Building Parent Power. (C.M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (87%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CONVENIENCE STORES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); CENSUS (71%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (70%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (70%); CREDIT REGULATION (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); NEW ECONOMY (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



222 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2395 words

HEADLINE: The Ex-President Next Door 

BYLINE:  By KATE STONE LOMBARDI 

DATELINE: CHAPPAQUA 

 BODY:
THERE was a time when satellite trucks jammed the parking lot of the local Grand Union here. Network camera crews descended on Lange's Little Store and presidential motorcades with flashing red lights would bring traffic to a halt. Sheila MacWilliams had to chase a tabloid reporter out of a tree in her yard. 
 When Bill Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton moved here in January 2000, news media coverage was so extensive that a national newspaper ran an article on how large a tip Mr. Clinton left at a local coffee shop (it was big: 32 percent) and photographers stood on chairs to capture the couple eating omelets. When asked byDavid Letterman on his show how her move to Chappaqua had gone, Mrs. Clinton joked, "the only real problem that we had is when the satellite truck ran over the Welcome Wagon." 
 Things have quieted down considerably since then. Mrs. Clinton, of course, is now a United States senator, and Mr. Clinton is well into his postpresidency. Both have memoirs coming out; Senator Clinton's book is due in bookstores tomorrow. A much-promoted Barbara Walters interview about those memoirs, which will be shown tonight, was partly filmed at the Clintons' home here. Still, the hoopla is nothing like it once was. 
The Clintons haven't disappeared from view so much as settled into Westchester. Sightings of the couple, either together or alone, in downtown Chappaqua and neighboring communities are nearly routine. Both Clintons make frequent appearances throughout the county. Mrs. Clinton is often working with constituents; several weeks ago she spent five hours at a conference on nonprofit organizations at the Rye Town Hilton. Last month, she gave the graduation speech at Pace University's Westchester campus in Pleasantville. Mrs. Clinton marches annually in the Memorial Day parade here (this year she presented a memorial wreath; the parade was canceled because of rain) and she will be at the local library signing copies of her book next Saturday.
But it is the former president who suddenly seems to be everywhere in Westchester. Recently he was in White Plains, speaking to the Westchester County Association, a major business organization, about the economy. There he confessed to a rapt audience of about 600 people that it had been his wife's idea to move to Westchester. 
"I said, 'Hillary, I'm a redneck, I grew up in Arkansas. If you're going to make me go to New York you've got to let me at least move to New York City,"' Mr. Clinton said. "And she said, 'No, no, you don't know what you're talking about.' Well, as is usually the case in the last 30 years, she was right and I was wrong, and I really do like it here. I go running in that Rockefeller park and I like the golf courses and I like my neighbors. It's really a wonderful place to live, and if I have any complaints I'll refer them to Andy."
Mr. Clinton was speaking of Andrew J. Spano, the county executive, a fellow Democrat who introduced the former president at the dinner.
Mr. Spano said later that when Mr. Clinton sat down after his speech, which covered everything from President Bush's tax cuts to the federal deficit, Keynesian economic theory, terrorism, religious fundamentalism and the origins of mankind, he asked the county executive how he thought it had gone over. 
"I'm sitting there with the ex-president of the United States, and he wants to know what I thought," Mr. Spano said. "He was concerned because of all the economics. I told him it was great."
The next week Mr. Clinton was at Horace Greeley High School in Chappaqua talking to students about citizenship. More than 1,000 cheering students crowded into the gymnasium, where Mr. Clinton told them to focus "on the trend lines and not the headlines" of national events and urged them to vote and to participate in community service. Mr. Clinton did not charge a fee for either recent appearance. Financial disclosure forms released by Mrs. Clinton last year reported that the former president received $9.2 million in his first year out of office for giving 59 speeches. The fees averaged about $150,000 per appearance.
The former president accepted a Greeley T-shirt from the students -- he runs on the track at the school -- and stayed on to shake dozens of students' hands. Though many had seen Mr. Clinton around town, the teenagers were far from blase about his appearance at their school. 
"I was excited for the entire day when I knew he was coming," said Zelda Ghersin, a junior. "I completely agree with a lot of his points. I did see him once before at my brother's elementary school. He was voting duringthe Gore-Bush election and I shook his hand then, too."
IN a chatty, lengthy telephone interview on Monday on the subject of his life in Westchester, Mr. Clinton confirmed that he has been spending more time at home recently. Mr. Clinton said that the first two years after his presidency, he spent a quarter of his time overseas and traveled a great deal across the country. He said that when he was in New York, he normally went to Washington about once a week when the Senate was in session to "check on Hillary." 
The former president said that he was working "like a devil" on his memoirs, for which he received an advance reported to be more than $10 million from Alfred A. Knopf and that he was having a good time writing them. He said that he hoped his book would come out about a year after his wife's. Mr. Clinton said that he had helped Senator Clinton recall parts of their shared past.
"Hillary's book is really good," he said. "I've read it cover to cover five times. I really worked hard trying to help her remember things. She wanted so much not to make any kind of factual errors. And I think it's a very fine book." 
He said his own book would be somewhat different from his wife's, which, he said focuses mostly on their eight years in the White House.
Mrs. Clinton received a reported $8 million advance from her publisher, Simon & Schuster. Last week the Associated Press reported that in her memoirs Mrs. Clinton wrote that the most difficult decisions she had made in her life "were to stay married to Bill and to run for the Senate from New York." The book reportedly describes Mrs. Clinton's pain and betrayal over her husband's relationship with Monica Lewinsky and discusses "the public relations mistakes" in how the Clintons handled the Whitewater investigation.
Roughly a third of Mr. Clinton's book will cover his life before 1970, he said. He added that he expected that his wife would help him with his memories as he had with hers. But Mr. Clinton emphasized that the book would be his own work. 
"It won't be like some of those presidential memoirs, " Mr. Clinton said. "If this one is no good, it's nobody's fault but mine, because there's no ghostwriter. I'm just sitting here writing away."
Mr. Clinton says he enjoys a lot about living in Westchester. He reeled off a list of restaurants he likes in Chappaqua: Lange's deli, Starbucks, the Chappaqua Cafe, the Kittle House, Jardin du Roi, Takayama, Gionna's and Bistro Maxime. He said he shopped at the local bookstore, banked locally and bought groceries at the Grand Union, the Village Market as well as at Susan Lawrence, a local catering and takeout shop. He was especially enthusiastic about the Jacob Burns Film Center in Pleasantville, an independent theater that Mr. Clinton described as "a real jewel, one of the treasures of living here." For a fund-raiser for the film center last week, Mr. Clinton donated a signed book of his speeches for a silent auction. 
The former president is still protected by the Secret Service. He is usually driven in a large, black S.U.V., and his appearances are telegraphed by fit-looking young men with wire devices in their ears. Outside the 114-year-old white Dutch Colonial home that the Clintons bought for $1.7 million, Secret Service minivans block the driveway. 
Mr. Clinton said he had gotten to know several people on his street, Old House Lane, quite well. He said he often plays golf with one neighbor, Dr. Tony Sanfilippo. And Mr. Clinton said he was pleased and surprised to find a Kosovar Albanian family living across the street.
"They havea relative that's in the Kosovo government right now, and you know because I basically saved them from Milosevic, it's nice to have a neighbor who knows something you did when you were president. What are the odds of that?" he said.
Sheila and Dick MacWilliams until recently lived in the house behind the Clintons' home. When Mr. Clinton was still in office, he invited the MacWilliamses -- along with other neighbors, town and county officials -- to a White House Christmas party. The MacWilliams became well acquainted with the Secret Service detail that protects the Clintons, and occasionally enlisted their help in ejecting overly aggressive reporters from their yard. Last spring, when the MacWilliamses first put their house on the market, the doorbell rang. It was Bill and Hillary, who were out for a walk and had seen the "for sale" sign. 
"They said they were sorry we were moving," Mrs. MacWilliams said. "I said, 'I can't believe the first time you're at my house I'm in sweats.' They said that they were in sweats, too, and I invited them in for coffee and they stayed for about 45 minutes. We talked about all kinds of things. It was very easy and very delightful. Everyone asked later if I was nervous, but I didn't have time to be nervous."
Mrs. MacWilliams said that like many Chappaqua residents, the Clintons had remodeled their kitchen, and had also enclosed a small screened-in porch. The Secret Service has also added many security features, including a fence between their two houses.
MR. Clinton said he had been away a good deal on Sundays, because he often gave speeches out of town on Saturday nights. He has kept his membership at his home church in Arkansas, but said he hopes to be home more on weekends in the future. The Clintons attended a Christmas service at the Congregational Church in Chappaqua, and both have visited Temple Beth El in Chappaqua.
"A lot of my friends in Chappaqua are now inviting me to bar mitzvah and bat mitzvah ceremonies, some of which I hope I'll be able to attend," Mr. Clinton said.
One day, Mr. Clinton said, he was driving past the local Baptist Church when he noticed a pickup truck with Arkansas license plates in the church driveway. Two days later, he got a letter from the pastor, who had been at a small Baptist church in Fayetteville, Ark., not far from where the Clintons had married. The pastor had been reassigned to Chappaqua, and invited the former president to attend services. 
"The first day I went there, there was a Chinese lady leading the choir, there was a Korean family there, there was an Indian girl playing piano, there were Jamaican families there, and all these people had been converted where they live," Mr. Clinton said. "And they have a blind ministry: there were three or four blind people there. There were less than 100 people in the congregation. It was amazing. It's an interesting little place, and when I'm here on Sunday, I like to go down there."
THE former president has also kept up his jogging. He looked fit and trim at his recent Westchester appearances. Mr. Clinton said he particularly enjoyed running in Rockefeller State Park Preserve in Pocantico Hills. Mr. Clinton said that he used to run there with Buddy, his Labrador retriever that was struck and killed on a Chappaqua street, but now that his new Lab, Shamus, was nearly fully grown, he was beginning to run with him. 
Emmie Barnes, a Chappaqua resident, was jogging at the preserve last summer when she heard from runners coming in the other direction that Mr. Clinton was up ahead. Mrs. Barnes soon came upon the former president.
"He had stopped, and I said: 'What's wrong? You're not at the end,' and as he turned to looked at me, I saw he looked, well, let's say he wasn't looking as fit then as he probably is now," she said. "He had obviously pushed and knocked himself out." 
Mr. Clinton has also been engaging in another favorite pastimes: golf. He told the County Business Association that one of the great things about living in the county was the golf courses. Trump National confirmed that Mr. Clinton had joined that golf club (membership: $300,000), known for its spectacular 100-foot waterfall on the 13th hole, and its less than amicable relationships with its neighbors in Briarcliff Manor. Mr. Clinton said he had played the $30 million Trump course, as well as the Mount Kisco Country Club, a course in Purchase and at the Hudson Valley course near Croton-on-Hudson. He has yet to play at the Whippoorwill Country Club, which he described as "practically in my backyard," though he has been invited and hopes to play there.
OF course, Mr. Clinton has not just been jogging, going to movies and playing golf. In addition to writing his memoirs, he has been active with his foundation, the William J. Clinton Presidential Foundation, which both supports the construction of his presidential library, and also works to advance several agendas: combating H.I.V./AIDS, economic empowerment of poor people; racial, ethnic and religious reconciliation; and citizen service.
Mr. Clinton said he was soon to travel to Africa for Nelson Mandela's 85th birthday and to highlight work on AIDS and education that the foundation had been doing in that country.
He said that the most rewarding thing he had done since being out of office was to raise $110 million with Bob Dole, which is to be used to guarantee college scholarships to the children and spouses of everyone killed or disabled in the Sept. 11 attacks. Babies that mothers were pregnant with and who were born after the terrorist attack will be eligible, as will people from 70 foreign countries, Mr. Clinton said. 
At his recent speeches, Mr. Clinton has joked that "Senator Clinton is the only one in my family with any power." So what is the postpresidency really like for someone who is relatively young, healthy and who not very long ago was the most powerful person in the Western Hemisphere, and perhaps the world?
"I like having my life back," Mr. Clinton said. "I miss the work and I miss the people a lot but I've been blessed with a great team of people that work with me in my office in Harlem and down in Little Rock. I never thought I could stay president forever."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Clinton signs autographs for students after a speech at Horace Greeley High School. At Memorial Day ceremonies in Chappaqua, Hillary Rodham Clinton greeted Vietnam veterans. The Clintons' home on Old House Lane in Chappaqua. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times); (Richard L. Harbus for the New York Times)(pg. 1); Bill Clinton is showing up all over Westchester, including at the Trump National Golf Club in Briarcliff Manor, left, where he is a member. Some of his favorite places to eat include Crabtree Kittle House, below left, and Lange's Deli, below right, both in Chappaqua. Mr. Clinton says he likes to run in Rockefeller State Park Preserve. (James Estrin/The New York Times); Andrew J. Spano and Bill Clinton before Mr. Clinton spoke to the Westchester County Association. (Richard L. Harbus for the New York Times); (Suzy Allman for The New York Times); (Richard L. Harbus for The New YorkTimes); (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); LIBRARIES (67%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%) 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARBARA WALTERS (51%) CLINTON, BILL; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN); LOMBARDI, KATE STONE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) CHAPPAQUA (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



223 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: June 1-7; 
POLITICS: BLOOMBERG'S MANEUVER

BYLINE:  By Michael Cooper

 BODY:
A New York mayor in the middle of a budget crisis becomes a human pinata, the target of interest groups, unions, columnists, editorial writers and opinion polls. So it easy to understand an unusual maneuver last week by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who is in need of good news as he struggles to close a multibillion-dollar budget gap caused by the national recession and the aftermath of the attacks on the World Trade Center. 
 For years the city's huge budget has been put together in what the key players call a dance: the mayor threatens cuts, the City Council fights them, and the mayor gives in on some. But this year, Mr. Bloomberg proposed a string of unpopular service cuts. Then, after his approval ratings slid, he announced on his own last week that he would back down on some of them. He said he would find another $90 million in the city's $44.5 billion budget to keep picking up the trash more than once a week, to preserve library hours and to maintain rush hour service on the Staten Island Ferry. 
 The mayor's solo choreography got him some much-needed good publicity and stole some glory from the City Council, which will have a harder time presenting itself as the protector of endangered city services. Michael Cooper

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (70%); FERRIES (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



224 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 2125 words

HEADLINE: Drip, Drip, Drip 

BYLINE:  By Matt Bai; Matt Bai is a contributing writer for the magazine. His last article was about Howard Dean.

 BODY:
For Jim Doyle, it's a day like any other. In the morning, Wisconsin's new governor arrives at the Madison Concourse Hotel, where he informs drug makers that unless Washington comes through with a prescription drug plan, the state is going to have to force them to lower prices. Then he walks down the hall to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. convention, where he explains why almost 3,000 state jobs are going to be cut. A few hours later, he holds a news conference at a Milwaukee school to plead for more special-education financing from Washington.
 "Everybody gets bad news," Doyle tells me wearily as he inhales a McDonald's fajita on the way back to the capital. His state is in financial free fall -- it's short about $3.2 billion -- and no one in Washington seems to care. 
 "Whatever the theory is behind trickle-down economics, I don't think people are seeing it here," Doyle says. "You watch these school districts struggle mightily with their budgets, and you think that if even a small part of these tax cuts were going instead toward helping education in this country. . . . " His voice trails off, and he turns up his hands in surrender. 
At least Doyle has a support group: 49 other state governors, virtually all of whom are going through some version of the same ordeal, being forced to make decisions that will haunt them in attack ads for the rest of their careers -- assuming they still have careers. The governor of Kentucky released hundreds of prisoners because the state couldn't afford to house them. In California, 350,000 people are being booted from Medicaid. In Oklahoma, some teachers are driving school buses. The list goes on.
Even the governors themselves can appreciate the absurdity of all this. "I joke with people that the only things we're waiting for are the plagues and the locusts," says Tim Pawlenty, Minnesota's new Republican governor. But this is gallows humor; the crises in the states will ultimately affect thousands of families in deeply personal, even tragic ways. The states themselves helped create this mess by slashing taxes during the boom years, while at the same time blowing money like Bill Bennett at the Tropicana. Now, as tax revenues plummet and job losses mount, there just isn't enough money coming in to pay the bills, nor is there much sympathy from the former governor sitting in the White House. The only things trickling down from Washington, it seems, are impossible choices -- and the blame for making them.
Amid all the political rhetoric about saving taxpayers money, we seem to have forgotten how governments actually function. President Bush says federal tax cuts now totaling more than $1.5 trillion will put money back in the bank accounts of average Americans, but to understand what governors are going through is to understand why that isn't really true. For a lot of Americans, the president's tax cut won't end up being a tax cut at all; it's really just a tax shift.
Here's how it works. The tax cut will choke off revenue to the federal government, which is precisely what conservatives want it to do. Their thinking is that the less money Washington has, the less it will waste. This means Congress can't increase financing for the mandates it's been heaping onto the states for 40 years. For instance, Congress shares with states the cost of Medicaid, the health care program for the poor, which gobbles up huge chunks of state budgets. Since Washington hasn't seen fit to provide elderly patients with a prescription drug plan, that, too, falls to the states. So does the overwhelming share of special education for disabled children, another federal program. And let's not forget more recent mandates -- Bush's "No Child Left Behind" law and increased spending on homeland security -- that the feds have passed on to governors with minimal assistance.
Bush's tax cut does include $20 billion in aid to the states, a provision that passed only because Senate moderates demanded it. Half of that money will be divided among the states over the next two years to help close budget shortfalls. That's helpful, but it's hardly salvation. According to the nonpartisan Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, states are facing about $100 billion in deficits right now.
Unlike the president, who can run up deficits at will, governors are legally bound to pass balanced budgets. So in order to finance programs like special education and Medicaid while their budgets implode, governors must pull money from universities, parks and highways. "The budget meetings are extremely depressing," Michigan's new Democratic governor, Jennifer Granholm, told me during a recent visit to Washington. "We've got to contemplate cutting burial services for indigents, or cutting after-school programs for at-risk kids, or cutting programs even for talented and gifted children. These are Hobbesian choices."
Rather than raise taxes, a lot of governors, like Doyle and Granholm, adhere to what might be called "Florio's Law." During the last recession, some governors, most visibly New Jersey's Jim Florio, tried to raise taxes and were soundly bounced from office. The lesson that a lot of politicians, especially Democrats, took away from that period is that you can weather almost anything but a major tax increase.
Instead, desperate governors are slashing the aid that flows from each state to the cities and towns where people actually live. And this is the hidden effect of the Bush tax agenda -- beyond the expanding deficits and favoritism toward the wealthy -- that a lot of taxpayers don't yet seem to grasp. If Bush and Congress cut taxes, and your governor doesn't raise them, then the buck ultimately stops with your mayor, who has to find ways to pay the police and firefighters, paint schools and pave roads. That'll mean higher property taxes or fees on services like garbage collection, or maybe the town will decide it's time to reassess the value of your house. Either way, you're likely to be paying someone else the money you no longer send to Washington.
There is a legitimate conservative theory at work here -- if anyone in the administration had the courage to own up to it. Conservatives believe that it's simply fairer to have people taxed by their local governments than by Washington. This way, the people who pay for the services are the ones using them. As an intellectual point, this makes a lot of sense: if you live in Illinois, you may end up paying more money for your local police force, but that's better than giving it to Congress so they can use it to pay for cops in Florida.
That said, you won't see Bush campaigning in 2004 on the notion that he shifted taxes to the local level and thus made government more accountable. There will never be a TV ad that says: "President Bush. He decentralized revenue." Instead, Bush will insist that he cut your taxes more than any president in history -- and if some other moron raised them, you should throw him out of office. This is, at best, disingenuous. At worst, it helps create a cynical society where people believe they shouldn't have to pay for anything and their elected officials are too afraid to tell them they should.
As proof, look no further than a referendum earlier this year in Oregon, in which voters were asked to choose between $724 million more in income taxes or sharply reduced spending projections, including $95 million less for schools. Here's a shock: by a margin of 55 to 45 percent, the voters chose to shrink spending. (Ninety-nine Oregon school districts ran out of money and have to close their schools before the end of the school year.) To conservatives like Stephen Moore, the influential president of the Club for Growth, this is the best kind of democracy in action. "A lot of people in local towns or cities are going to say: 'Hell, no! You're not going to raise my taxes,' " Moore says triumphantly. " 'Get rid of the welfare programs!' "
But it's hard to imagine a more basic abdication of leadership than to leave state and local spending decisions to the mercy of the majority. It's fair to have arguments about what kind of services to provide, but that's different from asking the voters themselves to figure out which programs are essential and how much revenue is needed to run them. That's the whole reason we elect people to govern -- even if, at times, they wish we hadn't.
Given that Bush and three of his cabinet members were governors themselves, you would think they'd be deeply concerned about the crisis in the states. If they are, no one in the administration wants to talk about it. When I called to request an interview with Bush's liaison to the governors, Claire Buchan, a White House spokeswoman, said she knew where the administration stood, so there was really no need for me to talk to the liaison. "The president thinks the most important thing we can do for the states is get the economy going again," she said, as if reading a memo. "The president's put forward a robust growth plan that he thinks will be meaningful for the economy and for workers."
When I asked Governor Pawlenty, a loyal Bush supporter, what kind of aid he needed from his party's leaders in Washington, he burst out laughing. "What we need and what we're going to get," he said, "are two different things."
Influential Republicans aren't merely indifferent to the crises facing governors; they are openly hostile. Conservatives like Moore and Grover Norquist, the strategist who talks often with Karl Rove, say it would be insane for Washington to help states that won't help themselves. What governors really need, they argue, is the spine to cut back sprawling government programs. Norquist says governors should kick more people off Medicaid, for instance. To ensure that only the truly needy qualify, he advises governors to say, "'We're not going to be doing hair transplants or sex-change operations and all the other things we've been doing."'
This is not the ideological fringe talking. It is, in fact, the center of power in the Republican Party -- a party, it should be pointed out, whose modern hero, Ronald Reagan, once passed a big tax increase as governor of California. Just as conservatives going back to Barry Goldwater have pushed to shrink the federal government and return the responsibility for social services to the states, so are these same Republican activists now declaring war on the state bureaucracies that deliver those services. Leaving the governors to deal with their own fiscal nightmares is part of a tough-love policy designed to make the states scale back the social programs that are making them destitute. 
In a sense, Republicans are using the very same tactic against the states that Reagan employed to win the cold war against the Soviet empire: force your enemy to spend himself into poverty until, at some point, the infrastructure on which he stands gives way and topples.
That's fine, except taxpayers -- even those who vote for smaller government -- have come to demand a certain threshold of services. People are living longer, and they can't go without health care. Disabilities are being diagnosed in children, and those children can't just be left to fail in crowded classrooms. And so the nation's governors find that they are not only governors in the traditional sense, but advocates, too. Under an ever-darkening economic sky, they're forced to play the role of civics teachers, trying to make people in their communities (not to mention those in their own parties) understand that you can't get everything for nothing.
I recently talked with Dirk Kempthorne, the Republican governor of Idaho and a staunch supporter of the Bush agenda. In the years after he was elected governor in 1998, Kempthorne, a former senator, signed 49 tax cuts into law. But this year, with income-tax revenues off by $35 million, Kempthorne persuaded his Republican-dominated Legislature to temporarily raise the sales tax and add a tax on cigarettes. For this, he has been vilified by conservatives in Washington, who vow that no governor who raises taxes or asks for more aid will have a future in the party.
"I wasn't going to make further cuts in education," Kempthorne told me. "I wasn't going to release prisoners. I saw that in other states, and it was a disaster. We had proposals that would have eliminated the delivery of meals to elderly who had chosen to remain in their homes. If they don't receive that food, then they have no choice but to go into a nursing home. Why would you take their dignity away from them?
"I did what was unpopular, but in my mind and heart it was the right thing to do. And I think the measures that I've taken that are being criticized by my brethren conservatives, well. . . . " He sighed. "They're not standing in my shoes." 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Christoph Niemann and David Harry Stewart) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); MEDICAID (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); TAX LAW (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%) TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATES (US) 

COMPANY: SA DAY MANUFACTURING CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%) BAI, MATT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES)#043T040106SL04A01# 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (78%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



225 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Money 2003 

 BODY:
 It's probably too late to invoke an updated version of that old Chinese curse: May you live in volatile times. We already do. But that's not to say that every one of us is riding the same wave, economically speaking -- or even that our own individual waves are all that big or dynamic. What we're in the midst of collectively is, to borrow a term economists use, idiosyncratic volatility. Which means that however the broader economy is moving -- maybe even up -- its component parts can be experiencing significant and wildly differing swings in fortune. As Harris Collingwood explains in "The Sink-or-Swim Economy," the march toward ever-increasing efficiency at the macro level has meant spreading volatility around at the micro level. And that's what this issue is about: some individuals or groups cresting, others living in the trough. The newly rich in "Suddenly Popular," by Stephen J. Dubner, have inherited their windfalls, putting them in the vanguard of the largest transfer of private wealth in history, while the states' governors and other local public officials in "Drip, Drip, Drip," by Matt Bai, are inheriting only woe from Washington these days. To future generations, Peter G. Peterson argues, the Republican administration, in its tax-cutting zeal, is bequeathing debt, deficits and a legacy of abandoned fiscal stewardship. Elsewhere in these pages, Matthew Brzezinski, a contributing writer, recounts his own bankruptcy; Mitch Epstein, a photographer, offers pictures from the demise of Epstein Furniture, his family's business. 
A series of What They Were Thinking photographs presents both halves of pairs in which one is up, the other down. Home isn't the only place caught in the tidal pull of the American economy, obviously, and Peter Maass, in "Meet the New Boss," introduces us to Dathar Khashab, who is (still) doing quite nicely as an engineer in Iraq's oil industry. But if there's one body that can always be counted on to thrive, it is that very set of people who explain why all these things happen to us: economists themselves. See "Ivy Envy," by Mark Levine, for a look at how one university hopes to ride its economics department to the top. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the cover and throughout the issue, actors from the Broadway musical "A Year With Frog and Toad" illustrate the rich man/poor man economy. Cover: Mark Linn-Baker. Page 10: Jay Goede. Page 43: Linn-Baker and Jennifer Gambatese. Pages 59 and 69: Frank Vlastnik. Page 79: Danielle Ferland. Images conceived by Christoph Niemann and photographed by David Harry Stewart. Set design: Megan Caponetto at Mel Bryant. Costume design: Vicki Farrell. Hair and makeup: Peter Brown. ("Backstage" with the cast before the photo shoot, Pier 59 Studios, New York. Photographs by Simon Alexander for The New York Times.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); WILLS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: PETE PETERSON (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



226 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
The Art That's Living In the House Hadid Built

BYLINE:  By ANN WILSON LLOYD; Ann Wilson Lloyd is the Boston correspondent for Art in America.

DATELINE: CINCINNATI 

 BODY:
"WE'VE passed through our hysterical stage," said Thom Collins, senior curator of the new $35.6 million Lois and Richard Rosenthal Center for Contemporary Art. His reassurances aside, anxious energy hovered in every corner of the new building, the first in the United States by the architect Zaha Hadid, barely two weeks before its opening gala on May 31. Construction workers still swarmed over all the center's six levels, and in the lobby one of them was taking a jackhammer to the newly poured concrete floor.
 Loading up on hard hats, Mr. Collins led a tour through the center's maze of galleries, stopping frequently to wrangle installation details. A dozen large rocks for an installation by the artist Cai Guo-Qiang were still being puzzled over by customs officials back east. The few works already in place were shrouded in plastic. The show's title, "Somewhere Better Than This Place: Alternative Social Experience in the Spaces of Contemporary Art," took on heightened meaning in the midst of the general chaos and flying dust. 
 The exhibition was inspired, Mr. Collins said, by both the new building and an untitled, participatory work by Felix Gonzalez-Torres, included here, consisting of two stacks of posters viewers may choose between. One set is printed with "Somewhere better than this place," the other with "Nowhere better than this place." For Mr. Collins, those opposing opinions and the work's equivocal nature encapsulate Ms. Hadid's frequently stated aim for a building that continually mixes it up between art and viewers.
The show's title is about community, not geography, Mr. Collins explained. "Socially engaged work was a deliberate choice," he said. "We think the center should be the burr under the saddle, in between someplace better and no place better. And we wanted an opening exhibition that engages the building at the programmatic level, not a retrospective or a solo show, but a group show that takes cues from the complex challenge of the architecture."
Mr. Collins and his small staff got the complexity they wished for. "Someplace," on view through Nov. 9, features 66 works by 39 artists from all around the world. The show required the international shipping of major installations like Mr. Cai's (which also features songbirds and a hot tub) and has eight newly commissioned pieces, some involving detailed collaboration with local volunteers. There are also performances, like Zhang Huan's releasing of 100 live doves, procured from a nearby Amish community, during an opening party; foot rubs; tea services; musical performances in Marie-Ange Guilleminot's pavilion; and Thai curry lunches served in Rirkrit Tiravanija's camp-style kitchen, all of which will be continued through the summer by staff members, including Mr. Collins.
Meanwhile, logistics, like sound spillover from more than 20 video-audio works, were still on Mr. Collins's mind. Temporary walls, baffles and judicious placement would ameliorate most problems, he hoped, except perhaps for Janet Cardiff's "Forty-Part Motet," a large circle of 40 speaker stands, each emitting one part of an a cappella choir singing English Renaissance music. Though the Cardiff piece will be situated on one of the highest floors, Mr. Collins noted that the open-staircase atrium of the building would probably channel the singing down to the first floor lobby. And then, maybe, that would draw people up. "There are things curatorially that will take time to get a handle on," he said and added, in what is surely an understatement, "The building is a real challenge to exhibition planning."
With spaces both wide open and circuitous, sightlines bound off in every direction, and viewers are beckoned toward series of twisting trapezoidal spaces, deep bays and hidden dead-end crannies. Ramps are everywhere, and it's hard to figure which level one is actually on. Only one gallery has walls meeting in right angles, Mr. Collins said, but the interior's angularity and constantly varying ceiling heights offer fitted, cloistered spaces to set up chattering video works, like "Good Morning America!," a stack of five monitors by Ann-Sofi Siden; or to discreetly tuck away things like Patty Chang's video of her shaving her pubic area. These odd cul-de-sacs allow the staff to maneuver school groups visiting the top floor education center (the UnMuseum) selectively through the building, Mr. Collins said, or they furnish meditative ambience for works like Lee Mingwei's personal-shrine installation, "The Pantheon Project," ensconced in one such darkened area.
With a surprise around every corner, tracking down the art here can be a seductive, labyrinthine hunt, much like contemporary-art exhibitions in Europe, which are often installed in the convoluted passages, dungeons and attics of old castles and the like. Equally surprising is the UnMuseum, outfitted with sophisticated semipermanent built-ins by Alan Wexler and Andrea Zittel, and a weeping, interactive tree by Chico MacMurtrie, among other commissioned works.
In the main galleries, there are also plenty of open, shaftlike areas slicing through several levels, for effectively hanging suspended works. One of these lies at the heart of the building, just next to crisscrossing stair ramps connecting three levels. Here, an angled atrium holds Inigo Manglano-Ovalle's hanging "Cloud Prototype for an Edition of 3," a room-size, polished-titanium-clad, cloud-shaped sculpture. Beautiful and ominous, it nestles perfectly into a trapezoidal void, seemingly caught there.
Glittering off to one side of "Cloud" is a suspended row of six disco balls by John Armleder, "Untitled (Global V)"; while opposite, behind a wall, one can hear Monica Bonvicini's walk-in wind tunnel installation titled "A violent, tropical, cyclonic piece of art having wind speeds in excess of 75 miles per hour." Between "Cloud" and the wind tunnel is "Chappie 33," an installation by groovisions, a Japanese collaborative, that features 33 life-size girl dolls, identically clad like rescue workers in jumpsuits and hard hats.
Behind "Cloud," and visible through the half wall of the floor above, lies Marjetica Potrc's "El Retiro Roundhouse," a yurtlike shelter of recycled materials designed to be quickly built by relief agencies. The way these disparate works, all linked by sight or sound, seem to allude to and enhance one another is due to inspired placement within architecture that allows such interchange.
"The idea was that wherever you go in the spaces, you'd be reminded of the self in the social world," Mr. Collins said. "The traditional white-cube gallery is essentially a site of cultural ritual, having to do with isolation of art objects from the outside world, and of individuals from other individuals -- a pure Kantian notion of aesthetic extremes. This show, on the other hand, is a gentle manifesto for what we can be, or think about being."
The idea, he explained, was not utopian, but heterotopian, a sort of communal self-examination of society -- to paraphrase the French philosopher Michel Foucault, whose 1967 essay "Of Other Spaces" Mr. Collins has included in the exhibition catalog. And Cincinnati, like all places, has issues to examine. This is the city that put Dennis Barrie, the former director of the art center, on trial for obscenity after the Robert Mapplethorpe photography exhibition in 1990 and that repeatedly took Larry Flynt, the publisher of Hustler, to court. In 2001, the downtown area , just a few blocks from the new art center, was the scene of riots after the police killed a young, unarmed African-American. As a result, the African-American community called for a national economic boycott of the city, which is still in place with some effect. 
But next summer the $110 million National Underground Railroad Freedom Center will open on the riverfront. In addition to the Contemporary Art Center, Cincinnati already has buildings by Frank Gehry and Peter Eisenman and has two other major art museums, both opening new or refurbished facilities this year. And while other cities are severely cutting arts budgets, the local Fine Arts Fund has already exceeded its 2003 goal of $9.6 million by 7.5 percent.
Acknowledging the city's social dichotomies, Charles Desmarais, the center's director, remains optimistic that its architecture can provoke contemplation of them. "The building blurs the distinction between interior and exterior, lobby and street, gallery and circulation," he said. "And that narrows the gap between museum and community, observer and observed, art activity and life. This building is itself a challenging work of art. And embedded in its DNA is the museum's purpose as a catalyst for thought."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Engaging artworks: a museumgoer inside Monica Bonvicini's wind-tunnel installation; Marie-Ange Guilleminot, in her interactive exhibit "Paravent et Oursin," offers anonymous foot rubs; a listener in Janet Cardiff's "Forty-Part Motet" is surrounded by speakers that each emit one voice of a choir.; From "Somewhere Better Than This Place: Alternative Social Experience in the Spaces of Contemporary Art," the opening exhibition at the Lois and Richard Rosenthal Center, top left: Inigo Manglano-Ovalle's hanging "Cloud Prototype for an Edition of 3," above; Cai Guo-Qiang's "Cultural Melting Bath: Project for the 20th Century," far left; "Chappie 33" by groovisions, left. (Photographs by Mark Lyons for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); BIRDS (60%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (54%) ART; ARCHITECTURE 

ORGANIZATION: ROSENTHAL CENTER FOR CONTEMPORARY ART (CINCINATTI) 

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (79%) LLOYD, ANN WILSON; COLLINS, THOM; DESMARAIS, CHARLES; HADID, ZADA

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (78%) OHIO, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



227 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 2098 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-8-03; 
Deficits and Dysfunction

BYLINE:  By Peter G. Peterson; Peter G. Peterson is chairman and co-founder of the Blackstone Group and chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. He served as secretary of commerce under President Nixon.

 BODY:
I have belonged to the Republican Party all my life. As a Republican, I have served as a cabinet member (once), a presidential commission member (three times), an all-purpose political ombudsman (many times) and a relentless crusader whom some would call a crank (throughout). Among the bedrock principles that the Republican Party has stood for since its origins in the 1850's is the principle of fiscal stewardship -- the idea that government should invest in posterity and safeguard future generations from unsustainable liabilities. It is a priority that has always attracted me to the party. At various times in our history (especially after wars), Republican leaders have honored this principle by advocating and legislating painful budgetary retrenchment, including both spending cuts and tax hikes.
 Over the last quarter century, however, the Grand Old Party has abandoned these original convictions. Without ever renouncing stewardship itself -- indeed, while talking incessantly about legacies, endowments, family values and leaving "no child behind" -- the G.O.P. leadership has by degrees come to embrace the very different notion that deficit spending is a sort of fiscal wonder drug. Like taking aspirin, you should do it regularly just to stay healthy and do lots of it whenever you're feeling out of sorts. 
 With the arrival of Ronald Reagan in the White House, this idea was first introduced as part of an extraordinary "supply-side revolution" in fiscal policy, needed (so the thinking ran) as a one-time fix for an economy gripped by stagflation. To those who worried about more debt, they said, Relax, it won't happen -- we'll "grow out of it." Over the course of the 1980's, under the influence of this revolution, what grew most was federal debt, from 26 to 42 percent of G.D.P. During the next decade, Republican leaders became less conditional in their advocacy. Since 2001, the fiscal strategizing of the party has ascended to a new level of fiscal irresponsibility. For the first time ever, a Republican leadership in complete control of our national government is advocating a huge and virtually endless policy of debt creation.
The numbers are simply breathtaking. When President George W. Bush entered office, the 10-year budget balance was officially projected to be a surplus of $5.6 trillion -- a vast boon to future generations that Republican leaders "firmly promised" would be committed to their benefit by, for example, prefinancing the future cost of Social Security. Those promises were quickly forgotten. A large tax cut and continued spending growth, combined with a recession, the shock of 9/11 and the bursting of the stock-market bubble, pulled that surplus down to a mere $1 trillion by the end of 2002. Unfazed by this turnaround, the Bush administration proposed a second tax-cut package in 2003 in the face of huge new fiscal demands, including a war in Iraq and an urgent "homeland security" agenda. By midyear, prudent forecasters pegged the 10-year fiscal projection at a deficit of well over $4 trillion. 
So there you have it: in just two years there was a $10 trillion swing in the deficit outlook. Coming into power, the Republican leaders faced a choice between tax cuts and providing genuine financing for the future of Social Security. (What a landmark reform this would have been!) They chose tax cuts. After 9/11, they faced a choice between tax cuts and getting serious about the extensive measures needed to protect this nation against further terrorist attacks. They chose tax cuts. After war broke out in the Mideast, they faced a choice between tax cuts and galvanizing the nation behind a policy of future-oriented burden sharing. Again and again, they chose tax cuts.
The recent $10 trillion deficit swing is the largest in American history other than during years of total war. With total war, of course, you have the excuse that you expect the emergency to be over soon, and thus you'll be able to pay back the new debt during subsequent years of peace and prosperity. Yet few believe that the major drivers of today's deficit projections, not even the war on terror, are similarly short-term. Indeed, the biggest single driver of the projections, the growing cost of senior entitlements, are certain to become much worse just beyond the 10-year horizon when the huge baby-boom generation starts retiring in earnest. By the time the boomer age wave peaks, workers will have to pay the equivalent of 25 to 33 percent of their payroll in Social Security and Medicare before they retire just to keep those programs solvent.
Two facts left unmentioned in the deficit numbers cited above will help put the cost of the boomer retirement into focus. First, the deficit projections would be much larger if we took away the "trust-fund surplus" we are supposed to be dedicating to the future of Social Security and Medicare; and second, the size of this trust fund, even if we were really accumulating it -- which we are not -- is dwarfed by the $25 trillion in total unfinanced liabilities still hanging over both programs. 
A longer time horizon does not justify near-term deficits. If anything, the longer-term demographics are an argument for sizable near-term surpluses. As Milton Friedman once put it, if you cut taxes without cutting spending, you aren't really reducing the tax burden at all. In fact, you're just pushing it off yourself and onto your kids.
You might suppose that a reasoned debate over this deficit-happy policy would at least be admissible within the "discussion tent" of the Republican Party. Apparently, it is not. I've seen Republicans get blackballed for merely observing that national investment is limited by national savings; that large deficits typically reduce national savings; or that higher deficits eventually trigger higher interest rates. I've seen others get pilloried for picking on the wrong constituency -- for suggesting, say, that a tax loophole for a corporation or wealthy retiree is no better, ethically or economically, than a dubious welfare program. 
For some "supply side" Republicans, the pursuit of lower taxes has evolved into a religion, indeed a tax-cut theology that simply discards any objective evidence that violates the tenets of the faith. 
So long as taxes are cut, even dissimulation is allowable. A new Republican fad is to propose that tax cuts be officially "sunsetted" in 2 or 5 or 10 years in order to minimize the projected revenue loss -- and then to go out and tell supporters that, of course, the sunset is not to be taken seriously and that rescinding such tax cuts is politically unlikely. Among themselves, in other words, the loudly whispered message is that a setting sun always rises. 
What's remarkable is how so many elected Republicans go along with the charade. The same Republican senators who overwhelmingly approved (without a single nay vote) the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to crack down on shady corporate accounting of investments worth millions of dollars see little wrong with turning around and making utterly fraudulent pronouncements about tax cuts that will cost billions or, indeed, even trillions of dollars. 
For some Republicans, all this tax-cutting talk is a mere tactic. I know several brilliant and partisan Republicans who admit to me, in private, that much of what they say about taxes is of course not really true. But, they say, it's the only way to reduce government spending: chop revenue and trust that the Democrats, like Solomon, will agree to cut spending rather than punish our children by smothering them with debt. 
This clever apologia would be more believable if Republicans -- in all matters other than cutting the aggregate tax burden -- were to speak loudly and act decisively in favor of deficit reductions. But it's hard to find the small-government argument persuasive when, on the spending front, the Republican leaders do nothing to reform entitlements, allow debt-service costs to rise along with the debt and urge greater spending on defense -- and when these three functions make up over four-fifths of all federal outlays.
The starve-government-at-the-source strategy is not only hypocritical, it is likely to fail -- with great injury to the young -- once the other party decides to raise the ante rather than play the sucker and do the right thing. When the Democratic presidential contender Dick Gephardt proposed in April a vast new national health insurance plan, he justified its cost, which critics put at more than $2 trillion over 10 years, by suggesting that we "pay" for it by rescinding most of the administration's tax legislation. Oddly, it never occurred to these Republican strategists that two can play the spend-the-deficit game.
Not surprisingly, many Democrats have thrown a spotlight on the Republicans' irresponsible obsession with tax cutting in order to improve their party's image with voters, even to the extent of billing themselves as born-again champions of fiscal responsibility. Though I welcome any newcomers to the cause of genuine fiscal stewardship, 
I doubt that the Democratic Party as a whole is any less dysfunctional than the Republican Party. It's just dysfunctional in a different way.
Yes, the Republican Party line often boils down to cutting taxes and damning the torpedoes. And yes, by whipping up one-sided popular support for lower taxes, the Republicans pre-empt responsible discussion of tax fairness and force many Democrats to echo weakly, "Me, too." But it's equally true that the Democratic Party line often boils down to boosting outlays and damning the torpedoes. Likewise, Democrats regularly short-circuit any prudent examination of the single biggest spending issue, the future of senior entitlements, by castigating all reformers as heartless Scrooges.
I have often and at great length criticized the free-lunch games of many Republican reform plans for Social Security -- like personal accounts that will be "funded" by deficit-financed contributions. But at least they pretend to have reform plans. Democrats have nothing. Or as Bob Kerrey puts it quite nicely, most of his fellow Democrats propose the "do-nothing plan," a blank sheet of paper that essentially says it is O.K. to cut benefits by 26 percent across the board when the money runs out. Assuming that Democrats would feel genuine compassion for the lower-income retirees, widows and disabled parents who would be most affected by such a cut, I have suggested to them that maybe we ought to introduce an "affluence test" that reduces benefits for fat cats like me. 
To my amazement, Democrats angrily respond with irrelevant cliches like "programs for the poor are poor programs" or "Social Security is a social contract that cannot be broken." Apparently, it doesn't matter that the program is already unsustainable. They cling to the mast and are ready to go down with the ship. To most Democratic leaders, federal entitlements are their theology.
What exactly gave rise to this bipartisan flight from integrity and responsibility -- and when? My own theory, for what it's worth, is that it got started during the "Me Decade," the 1970's, when a socially fragmenting America began to gravitate around a myriad of interest groups, each more fixated on pursuing and financing, through massive political campaign contributions, its own agenda than on safeguarding the common good of the nation. Political parties, rather than helping to transcend these fissures and bind the country together, instead began to cater to them and ultimately sold themselves out.
I'm not sure what it will take to make our two-party system healthy again. I hope that in the search for a durable majority, Republicans will sooner or later realize that it won't happen without coming to terms with deficits and debts, and Democrats will likewise realize it won't happen for them without coming to terms with entitlements.
Whether any of this happens sooner or later, of course, ultimately depends upon the voters. Perhaps we will soon witness the emergence of a new and very different crop of young voters who are freshly engaged in mainstream politics and will start holding candidates to a more rigorous and objective standard of integrity. That would be good news indeed for the future of our parties. 
In any case, I fervently hopethat America does not have to drift into real trouble, either at home or abroad, before our leaders get scared straight and stop playing chicken with one another. That's a risky course, full of possible disasters. It's not a solution that a great nation like ours ought to be counting on. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Don Rypka/Corbis Bettmann) Chart: "HISTORY BECOMES FARCE""The 1983 deficit had now already come in at $208billion. The case for a major tax increase was overwhelming, unassailable, inescapable and self-evident. Not to raise taxes when all other avenues were closed was a willful act of ignorance and grotesque irresponsibility. In the entire 20th-century fiscal history of the nation there has been nothing to rival it. . . . The next day I told Jim Baker that I was going to resign. I couldn't defend no taxes; I couldn't defend a planned trillion-dollar deficit; I couldn't defend a policy of fiscal know-nothingism. 'I can't make a fool of myself any longer, Jim,' I told him. 'This budget is so bad, it's beyond the pale."' From "The Triumph of Politics," by David A. Stockman, 1986

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (74%); TAX LAW (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); RECESSION (73%); TAX RELIEF (68%); TAX INCREASES (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) PETERSON, PETER G; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



228 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: The Man Pushing America to Get on the Internet Faster 

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA, Calif., June 3 

 BODY:
The United States, where the Internet was invented, now falls behind Japan, Korea and Canada in deploying high-speed Internet access in homes and businesses. But advocates for quicker transfer of e-mail, Web site content and music files, take note: Peter K. Pitsch is on the case.
 Mr. Pitsch is a self-described staunch free-market Republican who once served as chief of staff for the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. Today, he is the top lobbyist for the Intel Corporation and a coalition of the technology companies in their efforts to press the government for a national policy as crucial to general economic growth -- one that would accelerate the spread of broadband, or high-speed, Internet access. 
 Of course, the technology industry has a particular interest in this issue, aside from wanting to see increased American productivity. 
It sees much of its future growth connected to the deployment of high-speed access, and the entertainment, music and software that will be able to reach consumers on upgraded networks. 
The topic of a national broadband policy will be central to discussions held at the annual conference and trade show of the National Cable and Telecommunications Association in Chicago, which ends June 11, with participants including executives like Bill Gates of Microsoft, Richard D. Parsons of AOL Time Warner and Mel Karmazin of Viacom.
The industry coalition had a recent success in persuading the F.C.C. to modify its rules so that telecommunications companies will not be forced to lease their high-speed access lines to competitors. But it continues to face a difficult battle to get Congress to grant tax credits to companies building next-generation Internet access networks.
For telecommunications companies, making the investment in broadband access is not without risk. The costs for building high-speed networks are enormous, whether through wires on the ground or through wireless networks. Moreover, the companies must market the concept to consumers who are already paying monthly fees for home telephone, cellphone and cable television service and may not want to pay yet more for high-speed access. To mitigate the risk, the industry has turned to the government for help, and Mr. Pitsch has led the charge.
"He is the godfather of telecom policy among technology companies in Washington," said Bruce P. Mehlman, the assistant secretary for technology policy in the Commerce Department, and a former lobbyist for Cisco Systems Inc.
People who know Mr. Pitsch say he is point man in the lobbying push because of his Washington background, personality and energy. But his ability to lead can also be credited to Intel's neutral role in this competitive field. Whereas cable, telephone and wireless companies are competing against one another to deploy high-speed access, Intel has no stake in which particular technologies will thrive. Thus it appears to have more credibility with federal regulators.
But that does not mean broadband growth is less important to Intel's future. For Intel, more high-speed access means more consumer demand for fast computers and that means greater demand for the microprocessors that Intel makes. 
"One of the fundamental drivers for faster and faster microprocessors will be high-quality, affordable broadband," Mr. Pitsch said during a recent interview at Intel's headquarters in Santa Clara. 
The bottom line, he said, is that Intel thinks high-speed Internet users will make up its future customer base. "The effect on us is indirect. But its huge," he said.
Today, about one-third of American households with Internet access have high-speed service -- an increase of 50 percent over a year ago, according to a report issued last month by the Pew Internet and American Life Project, a nonprofit research group. But the report also found that the rate of adoption of broadband was unlikely to remain as high as it has been because many people are content with the slower telephone dial-up connections to the Internet.
Whether the current rate of adoption is fast enough depends on whom you ask.
The F.C.C., which is charged by Congress with reporting periodically on the status of technology adoption, concluded in its most recent report, in February 2002, that high-speed Internet adoption was on pace. "Over all, we find that advanced telecommunications is being deployed to all Americans in a reasonable and timely manner," the report said, adding that subscriber levels had increased "significantly."
As of the end of 2002, the cable industry had invested some $70 billion in upgrading its networks to provide advanced digital service, including high-speed Internet access. And it is expected to invest an additional $10 billion this year, said Robert Sachs, the chief executive of the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, an industry trade group.
The technology industry is not alone in pushing for faster broadband adoption. Charles H. Ferguson, a Brookings Institution scholar, is working on a book about what he calls the United States broadband problem. He said that he thought American industry's slowness in deploying broadband access would hamper productivity and even national security.
"The broadband story is a general disaster," Mr. Ferguson said. Broadband access to homes is still too limited, he added, "but the business broadband picture is just as important, and even more disastrous."
Mr. Pitsch hopes to correct that situation. As chief of staff from 1987 to 1989 to Dennis R. Patrick, the chairman of the F.C.C., he provided counsel on a host of regulatory issues and was frequently a target of lobbyists himself.
Though he is now Intel's director of communications policy, Mr. Pitsch, 51, is still very much a Washington denizen. He lives in Great Falls in Northern Virginia with his wife, and in sartorial matters and demeanor, he is all inside the Beltway, down to his polished loafers and leather suspenders. Even on a recent trip to Intel headquarters, he did not give in to Silicon Valley's casual style. "My compromise was that I took off the tie," he joked.
When Mr. Pitsch started working for Intel in 1998, the company already had deemed high-speed Internet access to be pivotal to its growth.
In February 2002, Intel helped form the High Tech Broadband Coalition, an alliance of six technology and telecommunications industry trade groups whose dozens of members were already lobbying on their own. Grant Seiffert, vice president for external affairs and global policy at the Telecommunications Industry Association, a trade group that includes Intel and is part of the High Tech Broadband Coalition, said Mr. Pitsch and Intel pushed for the coalition and played a leadership role.
"He's high energy and he doesn't waste a lot of time," Mr. Seiffert said. He added that Mr. Pitsch's drive may at times be off-putting. "Sometimes he's a little aggressive for some people, but you have to respect what he does."
The coalition scored what is widely considered a major victory in February when the F.C.C. decided that telecommunications companies that build high-speed access lines are not obliged to lease those lines to competitors. The broadband coalition had argued for such a position, asserting it would spur investment.
Indeed, when the F.C.C. announced its decision, Commissioner Kevin J. Martin of the F.C.C. stated, "We endorse and adopt in total the High Tech Broadband Coalitions for the deregulation of fiber to the home and any fiber used with the new packet technology." 
F.C.C. officials say Mr. Pitsch's lobbying is effective because he knows the technical issues very well, and because Intel's position is neutral as to which telecommunications companies or technologies win out. The coalition is also pushing the F.C.C. on issues like freeing up more radio frequencies for use in wireless Internet access. 
But the coalition has been less successful in gaining passage of legislation in Congress. Bills have been introduced in the House and Senate that would provide tax relief for companies creating the broadband infrastructure. The House measure, for example, would create a 10 percent tax credit for building high-speed access in low-income and rural areas.
Other versions of thelegislation would offer 20 percent tax relief to companies that build advanced networks that are even faster than the current broadband networks. 
Even by Mr. Pitsch's assessment, the bills have a tough road ahead since many industries are seeking tax relief, and President Bush has already earmarked much of his tax cuts for other interests.
While Mr. Pitsch lobbies lawmakers, some have questioned whether his free-market philosophy is consistent with giving tax relief to huge companies. 
He says tax relief will spur investment and lead to higher productivity and job growth. But even his friends on Capitol Hill say it is a tricky line to walk. 
"A rural tax credit would not be consistent with a true free-market ideology unless you determine there has been a market failure in those areas," said Mr. Mehlman, from the Commerce Department.
But Mr. Mehlman said it was too soon to say whether there was a market failure. 
In any case, broadband is rolling out as fast, or faster, than any technology has ever been rolled out, he said. And Peter Pitsch plans to keep it rolling along.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter K. Pitsch, Intel's chief lobbyist, at company offices in Santa Clara, Calif. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); LOBBYING (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); BROADBAND (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); INTERNET 2 (78%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); TAX LAW (68%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%); TRADE SHOWS (51%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; TAX CREDITS 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (85%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (84%); AOL INC (67%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); VIACOM INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; INTEL CORP 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (85%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (67%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); VIA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (67%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%) SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; 

PERSON: RICHARD D PARSONS (56%); BILL GATES (55%) PITSCH, PETER K; RICHTEL, MATT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (86%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); JAPAN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



229 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Radio; 
One big company costs radioits place in the F.C.C. bonanza.

BYLINE:  By Jennifer 8. Lee 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
T happened in June, but for much of the media industry it might as well have been Christmas morning last Monday when Michael K. Powell, the Federal Communications Commission's chairman, and two of his Republican colleagues dispensed many of the gifts that had been on industry wish lists.
 Despite the sweeping deregulation the F.C.C. enacted by a 3-to-2 vote along partisan lines, however, one medium was left out of the celebration: radio. Not only were radio ownership caps left in place, some of the restrictions were effectively tightened. 
 How radio got left out of the party is more a tale of politics than of business. And the story almost exclusively centers on Clear Channel Communications, the company that began rising from obscurity in 1996, when radio ownership caps were raised, to amassing nearly 1,250 stations. As it has grown into the nation's largest radio company, owning more than 10 percent of the commercial stations in the United States, Clear Channel has drawn the wrath of musicians, who accuse it of using its concert division to strong-arm musicians, and the scrutiny of Congress, where many members contend that the company has engaged in anticompetitive practices. 
Although Clear Channel is widely respected on Wall Street, in Washington good business necessarily means practicing good politics, especially for the media business. Politicians, after all, depend on local media outlets to reach constituents through both advertising and news coverage. And as much as it purports to be independent, the F.C.C. is a political creature, influenced by public opinion and pressure from Capitol Hill.
These are fundamentals that Clear Channel evidently grasped too late. The F.C.C. ruling last week will make it much more difficult for Clear Channel to continue its longstanding strategy of growth through station acquisitions.
"Everyone, regardless of party, is running away from Clear Channel as fast as they can," said John Dunbar of the Center for Public Integrity, who has put together a searchable database of media ownership at www.openairwaves.org. "They've had a terrible run of publicity."
The company opened a Washington office only last December -- more than a year after it started drawing criticism for homogenizing radio programming across the country, particularly in smaller markets, where the company sometimes broadcasts disc jockeys who may be thousands of miles away.
Now the company has three former Capitol Hill aides working as lobbyists, including Andrew Levin, who worked in the House for the Michigan Democrat John D. Dingell. 
But the real power of lobbying is in preventing issues from becoming an open debate, and by the time Clear Channel had assembled its Washington team, the debate had long become public. The best its team could do was limit the damage.
Clear Channel did not fare well under the glare. When Lowry Mays, its chief executive, testified at the Senate Commerce committee in January, he had to listen to harsh rebukes from the Senators. His defensive replies to questions about the company's policy on payola and its commercial monopoly in Minot, N.D., failed to resonate with the inquisitors. "We have zero tolerance for pay-for-play," Mr. Mays said, even as Don Henley of the Eagles testified that musicians were often billed by record labels for promotional costs charged by radio stations.
Because Congressional hearings are as much show as substance, nuanced explanations, even if they hold true, do not make for good sound bites.
"Once these allegations get made on Capitol Hill, if they are not refuted with the truth, they become like an urban legend," Mr. Levin said in a telephone interview.
As Clear Channel wants the story to be told, it is a capitalist success built largely by one entrepreneur, Mr. Mays, through smart, aggressive acquisitions. The company casts itself as a savior, reviving struggling radio stations and diversifying formats to better serve listeners around the country.
Why pick on the radio industry? the company asks. The lobbyists wave ownership charts for the recording, film and cable businesses, showing that radio is the least concentrated media sector. But Clear Channel, despite controlling only about 10 percent of the commercial radio market, stands so far above the second- and third-largest companies -- Cumulus Media, with 250 stations and Infinity Broadcasting, with 180 -- that it acts as a lightning rod for fears about big media. In the politically charged atmosphere leading up to the Iraq invasion, the company's management in San Antonio was accused of coordinating the Clear Channel stations across the country to rally support for the war. Though the executives denied any active role in the pro-war rallies promoted by some of the company's individual stations, the controversy highlighted the potential political power than can come with media consolidation.
In many ways, Clear Channel's naivete resembles the early political trip-ups of Microsoft, another company that grew huge and found itself unprepared for life in the spotlight of public opinion and government scrutiny. Over time, Microsoft established a Washington presence and formed a political strategy.
Clear Channel, too, is reacting to pressure. In April, it announced it would cut ties with the independent promoters whose activities are sometimes accused of skirting antipayola laws.
So what exactly do last week's F.C.C. actions mean for the radio industry? One effect involves the maximum number of stations a company can own in a single local market -- a number that in many cases will shrink under the commission's new methodology. Under the old system, which defined a local market by the reach and overlap of radio waves from adjacent markets, Ithaca, N.Y., was considered to have at least 32 commercial radio stations, which allowed any one company to own up to 7 stations there. But under the new method of counting, Ithaca is considered to have only 9 commercial stations, and any single company can own no more than 5.
Though the F.C.C. is not requiring radio companies to give up any stations they already own, the companies say the tighter limits will make it hard to continue expanding to achieve the economies of scale they see as necessary to be profitable.
But the F.C.C. did give the radio industry a few consolation prizes. The new rules, for instance, will increase the overall station count in many local markets by including noncommercial broadcasters, like Christian and educational stations, which in some cities could allow a company to own a few more stations.
But Clear Channel's competitors say the net effect of the F.C.C.'s new rules will make it even more difficult now for them to catch up with the industry leader. And many industry analysts agree.
Clear Channel, though, viewed itself as the victim of an F.C.C. political sacrifice last week as the commission made regulatory life easier for newspaper and television companies. "They needed to have something to point to and say, 'We've tightened the rules in this area, so obviously we've done a balanced review,' " Mr. Levin said. "They needed to have a scapegoat."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lowry Mays, chief executive of Clear Channel Communications, addressed the Senate Commerce committee in January. Clear Channel, which owns 1,250 radio stations, has drawn criticism for homegenizing radio play. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (91%); DEREGULATION (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSIC (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); LOBBYING (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%) RADIO; MUSIC; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%) CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC; FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%) SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS; 

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (57%) MAYS, L LOWRY; LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



230 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Networks Try Reality Cure For Summer Rerun Blues

BYLINE:  By BILL CARTER and JIM RUTENBERG 

 BODY:
After about a half century of treating summer as the lowest of low seasons, keeping their schedules between June and September bereft of almost any original programming, the broadcast networks this year are suddenly offering more new series than at any time in their history.
 The reason: cable channels have had enormous success in the summer picnicking on their lazy bones -- otherwise known as repeats. Last summer, 11.3 million more people watched cable shows during prime time than the fare on broadcast networks like NBC, ABC, CBS and Fox, according to Nielsen Media Research. Back in 1998, the broadcast networks beat their cable brethren by about three million viewers. 
 This summer, senior executives at all the broadcast networks are seeking to reverse the trend. "There's no doubt the networks are fighting back this summer," said Jeff Zucker, the president of NBC Entertainment. 
Indeed, thanks mainly to long rosters of reality shows like "The Real Roseanne" on ABC, "Paradise Hotel" on Fox and "The Restaurant" on NBC, the networks are offering viewers a much fatter diet of original programming this summer. 
Cable executives acknowledge that this may cut into their ability to claim attention from viewers and the news media with the new shows they reserved expressly to take advantage of the livin' is easy attitude at the networks this summer.
Still, the cable networks are rolling out dozens of shows, including Snoop Dogg's comedy show on MTV and USA Network's "Peacemakers," about two 19th-century lawmen solving murders in Silver City, Colo.
Many of these shows represent the best these cable networks have to offer, their most expensive, highest-profile projects.
"We are incredibly mindful of the fact that the networks are looking more at the summer this year as an opportunity to take some shots with programs," said Peter Liguori, the president of FX. But that has not stopped that network from putting its maximum promotional effort behind the start-up, next month, of "Nip/Tuck," an extremely graphic, slickly produced scripted drama about a pair of amoral plastic surgeons in Miami. "We think this is pure buzz TV," Mr. Liguori said. "We know what we have to do. We have to try to turn it into an event."
Indeed, a somewhat startling role reversal seems to be taking place, several cable executives said. Doug Herzog, the president of USA Network, said cable is becoming more like broadcast television by adding more expensive scripted dramatic series in the summer even as broadcast television is becoming more like cable by adding the cheap reality programming that has been a cable staple, especially on MTV.
"Everybody is morphing -- we're stealing some pages from their book, they're stealing pages from our book. I remember when I first saw 'Are You Hot?,' " Mr. Herzog said, referring to the ABC reality program that was broadcast in the spring. "I thought to myself, " 'They're doing MTV. They're doing bad MTV, but they're doing MTV,' which was beyond unthinkable a couple of years ago."
David Baldwin, the executive vice president for program planning for HBO, said: "The way I read it, most of what the networks are doing is reality. They're still leaving us an open field to do comedies and drama."
At least at the top level of cable, the comparison seems to have validity. HBO is offering the last season of its hit comedy "Sex and the City" and its searing police series "The Wire" this summer; USA Network is bringing back its admired detective series, "Monk," and introducing its hybrid crime and Western drama, "Peacemakers"; and A& E is offering a new drama that won the highest award for television drama in England, "Mi5."
On the broadcast channels, Fox will be bringing out "Paradise Hotel," in which viewers will get a chance to replace a suitor voted out of a romantic elimination contest; ABC will be offering "The Real Roseanne," a video verite look at the comedian's attempt to start a cooking show (on a cable network); CBS will be presenting "Cupid," another dating show that incorporates elements from "American Idol," "Survivor" and "The Bachelorette" and many other previous reality shows; and NBC will be offering "Average Joe," in which the N.F.L. cheerleader at the center of a romantic contest does not know she will have to choose among schlubs and geeks rather than male models and firefighters to win her true love.
One reason the networks are going to reality so heavily is that in each of the past four summers, one major reality hit has been spawned. "Who Wants To Be Millionaire" on ABC, CBS's "Survivor," "Fear Factor" on NBC and Fox's "American Idol" all then became the biggest hits the networks had during the following regular season.
But Mr. Zucker of NBC said that the broadcast networks had a broader strategy at work, too: replacing as many low-rated repeats as possible. Networks cannot totally abandon repeats in summer because the economics of their business still depend heavily on second runs of many shows. Some network shows still repeat reasonably well, mainly police dramas like "Law and Order" and "C.S.I." and hit comedies like "Friends" and "Everybody Loves Raymond."
"The point is to fit in as many other things as possible," Mr. Zucker said. "We used the Miss Universe pageant and it did far better this year. We have a special with Katie Couric interviewing the parents of Laci Peterson. Anything we can find to replace the shows that don't repeat helps."
He predicted that one or more networks could see ratings increases of 20 percent to 25 percent this summer, noting that the strategy was promisingly so far. A number of the new reality series, including "American Juniors" on Fox and "For Love or Money" on NBC, opened their runs with strong ratings among the younger viewers whom both broadcast and cable networks covet, while many network shows playing in repeats are also faring well. (ABC's lineup has been the exception with some of its dramas, like "Alias" and "The Practice," posting weak numbers and its hockey playoff package reaching dismal new ratings lows.)
But the cable programmers say they believe nothing the networks do will matter very much. "The broadcasters have established such a deep-seated image of turning out the lights at the end of May, which they did so relentlessly for so many years," said Tim Brooks, who oversees research at Lifetime television.
Indeed, many network executives concede they do themselves no favors by using screaming promotions at the end of May that advertise "season finale."
Betsy Frank, the executive vice president for research and planning at MTV Networks, said she was not concerned about the broadcast networks' push this summer and predicted that it would not work.
"If the premise is that these shows are going to keep viewers from sampling and finding new shows on cable, I think that's going in the wrong direction," she said.
In fact, Ms. Frank said, the strategy could backfire on the broadcast networks and inadvertently benefit cable. "If you can get people to come to the TV set in the summer we think that's a good thing, because it means that they're there, they are available and they can turn the dial," she said. "They've come for one thing; they can watch something else. Raising usage levels in the summer is a good thing."
Ms. Frank said viewers still considered cable to be the home of original programming in the summer. "The broadcasters say more originals or year-round originals, but what they really mean is a handful of economically efficient reality shows amid a sea of repeats," she said.
The programming explosion this summer has intensified predictions that the broadcast networks will eventually abandon the traditional fall-through-spring season. "Maybe, as the sands continue to shift, one day the antiquated network calendar and the sweeps calendar and that whole thing will give way to a year-round programming schedule," Mr. Herzog said.
Brian Graden, the president of entertainment at MTV, said he was focusing less on making a big splash in summer, now so much more competitive than it once was, and more on introducing his new series throughout the year, as he had done with "The Osbournes," "Punk'd" and "The Real World."
"We feel like we're able to compete with the networks," Mr. Graden said. We are enough of a presence now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Snoop Dogg will star in a comedy show on MTV this summer. (pg. C10); Kristin Davis, above, stars in "Sex and the City"; Earvin Johnson, left, is the star and executive producer of "Who's Got Game?" on MTV; "The Amazing Race," below, is a CBS reality series; and on "American Juniors" on Fox, bottom, young stars compete for fame. (pg. C1) Chart: "For TV, a Working Vacation"Summer used to be a time of reruns on the networks, but now competition between the networks and cable channels has made summer more like the fall a time to launch new series or show new episodes of existing programs. FOXSERIES PLANNED FOR THE SUMMER: At least 6NAMES OF SOME OF THE SHOWS: Anything for Love, Banzai NBCSERIES PLANNED FOR THE SUMMER: 10NAMES OF SOME OF THE SHOWS: For Love or Money, Fame CBSSERIES PLANNED FOR THE SUMMER: 5NAMES OF SOME OF THE SHOWS: Amazing Race, Cupid ABCSERIES PLANNED FOR THE SUMMER: 4NAMES OF SOME OF THE SHOWS: The Real Roseanne, The Family MTVSERIES PLANNED FOR THE SUMMER: 11NAMES OF SOME OF THE SHOWS: Surf Girls, Doggy Fizzle Televizzle Game Show NetworkSERIES PLANNED FOR THE SUMMER: 8NAMES OF SOME OF THE SHOWS: Chuck Woolery: Naturally Stoned A&ESERIES PLANNED FOR THE SUMMER: 5NAMES OF SOME OF THE SHOWS: Mi5 HBOSERIES PLANNED FOR THE SUMMER: 5NAMES OF SOME OF THE SHOWS: Project Greenlight, Sex and the City FXSERIES PLANNED FOR THE SUMMER: As many as 4NAMES OF SOME OF THE SHOWS: Nip/Tuck, The Orlando Jones Show BravoSERIES PLANNED FOR THE SUMMER: 3NAMES OF SOME OF THE SHOWS: Queer Eye for the Straight Guy USASERIES PLANNED FOR THE SUMMER: 3NAMES OF SOME OF THE SHOWS: Peacemakers, Monk Comedy CentralSERIES PLANNED FOR THE SUMMER: 3NAMES OF SOME OF THE SHOWS: Im With Busey, Man Show (Sources: The networks and channels) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (89%); TRENDS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (50%) TELEVISION; TELEVISION AND RADIO PROGRAMMING; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (93%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (71%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL; RUTENBERG, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



231 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Iraq's Disorder May Lead OPEC to Hold Output Steady 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: KUWAIT, June 8 

 BODY:
This was supposed to be a tough season for the world's largest exporters of crude oil: they expected demand for petroleum to look weak, Iraq's return to the oil market after the war to be strong and prices, as a consequence, to fall.
 But none of that has come to pass. So when the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries meets on Wednesday in Doha, Qatar, oil industry analysts said, it is likely to do nothing about current production levels. 
 "OPEC gets a free pass at this meeting" from making a decision, said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York. 
During the war, oil traders thought that Iraqi exports would resume by late May or early June. Now, those expectations are likely to be delayed at least a month.
"Iraq is coming back slower and weaker than originally thought," Mr. Goldstein said. "Prices are hovering around $30 a barrel, and we're going into seasons of stronger demand in the third and fourth quarters."
As far back as early March, OPEC members were concerned about howthe new reality of an Iraq free of Saddam Hussein and United Nations sanctions would affect the successful strategy the group has employed for almost four years to keep prices fairly lofty -- despite the economic cycles the global economy has passed through.
Iraq was a founding and active member of OPEC, but since the Persian Gulf war of 1991, its exports have been regulated by the United Nations oil-for-food program, not OPEC's quota system.
OPEC understood that an American victory in a war with Iraq, which seemed assured, would lead to a repeal of the United Nations program. And indeed after the war, the American-appointed civil administration in Baghdad and the Iraqi oil ministry set an aggressive schedule for resuming exports.
In an interview two weeks ago, just after sanctions were lifted, Thamir Ghadhban, interim chief executive of the oil ministry, said that Iraq would be exporting about a million barrels a day by mid-June. The Iraqis were then exporting nothing and not even producing a million barrels a day.
Mr. Ghadhban's estimate appears now to have been highly optimistic. Iraq is in the process of selling about 10 million barrels of oil it has in storage in Turkey and Persian Gulf countries. But its ability to start a regular flow of oil for export is hampered by security problems in its southern oil region, particularly the vast Rumaila fields. 
Jabbar Ali al-Leaby, director of the country's South Oil Company, which is responsible for production at Rumaila and other areas near Basra, has complained long and bitterly that security problems and continued looting have made it extremely difficult to increase production.
Notably, looting has destroyed the Garmat Ali water-treatment installation, which supplied water to Rumaila for injection into wells to aid in the extraction of oil. The United States Army Corps of Engineers, which has so far been coordinating the reconstruction of Iraqi oil facilities, insists that production at Rumaila can increase without the water injection. But independent oil experts dispute that. 
Raad Alkadiri, director of the Market Intelligence Service for the consulting group PFC Energy, wrote in a report after a recent eight-day trip to Baghdad, "Ongoing looting, and the inability of Southern Oil Company personnel to carry out appraisals of the local fields because of a lack of security, has severely hampered the process of bringing production back online at the country's workhorse southern fields."
In the meantime, commercial supplies of gasoline and diesel oil in the United States and other major oil-consuming countries have remained low, despite the fact that OPEC produced far above quota levels earlier this year.
Industry analysts said that one reason for the persistently low supplies may be that demand was more robust than thought, despite the sluggish economy and in some places, the outbreak of SARS. 
Another reason, analysts said, may be that some OPEC members exaggerated their output information. Mr. Goldstein said his company estimated that Venezuela produces 500,000 barrels a day less than the 3 million or so barrels the government has reported.
Vera de Ladoucette, senior director for Middle East research at Cambridge Energy Research Associates, said that Indonesia and Iran had also fallen short of their OPEC quotas. Cambridge Energy estimated that OPEC in April exported 26.1 million barrels a day, compared with the group's official tally of 27.4 million barrels a day.
Iraq will probably not send a delegation to the OPEC meeting. Yet despite the absence of its technocrats fromDoha, and of its oil from the markets, Iraq is certain be on the minds of those attending, all of whom will be watching closely in coming months for the revival of the country's once-rich oil industry.
"Iraq may not be there in body," Mr. Alkadiri said, " but it will certainly be there in spirit." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); EXPORT TRADE (92%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (68%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) IRAQ (95%); QATAR (94%); GULF STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); KUWAIT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



232 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: One-Third of Childrenin Part of Brooklyn Are Exposed to Lead Dangers, Study Finds 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
Abby Bah, whose son Omar had high levels of lead in his blood, found out that the dust on the windowsills of her Brooklyn apartment had more than five times the amount of lead the Environmental Protection Agency deems safe. Cheri Lewis-Fontanez and her husband, David, learned that their 15-month-old son might be at an even greater risk, since the amount of lead discovered near the windows of their apartment nearby was more than 28 times greater than the safety threshold.
 The families live in two of the 59 apartments that were tested for lead in a three-month study in Bedford-Stuyvesant, where lead poisoning rates have remained high despite a steady citywide decline. The study, conducted by the Pratt Area Community Council using high school students trained in an E.P.A.-certified course, concludes that one of three children in the area lives in dangerous conditions. 
 "The results of our study are shocking," said Gabriel Thompson, an author of the report, who is on the staff at the Community Council. "Our findings also have significance for residents of other Brooklyn neighborhoods, many of which have similar housing stock."
According to the report, to be released today, more than a third of the buildings tested were found to have at least one apartment with a hazardous amount of lead, and 32 percent of the individual apartments tested had dangerous lead levels ranging from 5 to 100 times the federal threshold. Working mainly within a 12-block area, testers including 10 students from the Benjamin Banneker Academy in Clinton Hill took several dust wipe samples from each apartment in April and May to determine lead levels. 
Although New York banned the production of lead-based paint decades ago, it is common in many old homes and can become a threat when apartments are poorly maintained or are renovated. 
An epidemiologist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Pamela Meyer, would not evaluate the findings, although she said she was not surprised by them. High rates of lead, both in the city and nationwide, tend to be most common in housing built before 1950 in low-income, urban minority neighborhoods like Bedford-Stuyvesant. In a study of pre-1950 housing in Chicago last year, Dr. Meyer said, about a third of the children had elevated blood lead levels. 
"We're finding that large numbers of kids in the old cities have elevated lead levels, but it can cut across socioeconomic boundaries," Dr. Meyer added. "We hear reports of people gentrifying these old buildings: 'Oh gosh, I was pregnant and remodeling, and I just didn't think lead was a problem around here.' " 
Ms. Lewis-Fontanez, who suspects that the high concentration of lead in her apartment is a result of workers exposing the original masonry when they installed new windows, tends to agree. "We're not what you would call economically poor at all," she said. "I pay $1,100 a month for rent."
A parent monitors children's health carefully, she said. "When you're a working person, you go get them tested, you get their vaccinations, but you just don't think about something like this," she said. 
Although lead rates have been steadily declining in the city, pockets of higher rates have persisted along a so-called lead belt running from Williamsburg and Fort Greene through central Brooklyn into Queens. From 1995 to 2000, nearly 95 percent of city children identified as suffering from lead poisoning were black, Hispanic or Asian. 
"Bedford-Stuyvesant is clearly one of the higher-rate areas, and that's been true," said Jessica Leighton, an assistant commissioner at the city's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. In 1995, she said, there were 166 children with blood lead levels greater or equal to 20 micrograms per deciliter, the level at which city officials will take environmental action. By 2000, that number had dropped to 42 children. Dr. Leighton said that the department would be releasing new numbers soon and that the decline was expected to continue. "The most important thing we're seeing is that blood lead levels have been going down," she said, "but we still need to be doing more and not letting up. It's still one of the main environmental problems for children around."
Dr. Leighton said the city mainly followed a Centers for Disease Control guideline that recommends taking some sort of action if a child shows a blood lead level of 10 or more micrograms per deciliter. If the blood level is 20, health officials will investigate to find the source and monitor the child's condition, Dr. Leighton said. The Health Department takes similar action if two readings of 15 or greater are found in samples taken 90 days apart. Below that, the department will alert the family and the child's doctor and recommend further testing and monitoring.
Some recent studies have suggested that significant damage can occur at lower levels, and some advocates and parents say the government should do more. The report recommends that the city lower its definition of lead poisoning to 5 micrograms per deciliter, work more closely with community-based organizations to ensure universal blood-lead screening for children under 6 and more aggressively inspect buildings in high-risk neighborhoods. 
Although Dr. Meyer questioned whether such an approach would be feasible, it would probably satisfy Ms. Bah, whose son Omar, 3, had a lead level of 13. She said Health Department workers told her they could not come test her home unless his levels were higher. "The woman told me, 'Wait a little while, and maybe it will go up,' " the report quotes her as saying. "But I didn't want it to go up."
So she tried to keep his hands out of his mouth and then took him to be tested two more times, but his levels were not high enough to cause an investigation of her home. "I was thinking to myself: 'What do I need to do? Feed my son spoonfuls of lead before they can help?' " 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEAD (94%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (90%); LEAD PAINT (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LEAD POISONING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); FAMILY (75%); POISONINGS (74%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%) LEAD; TESTS AND TESTING; POISONING AND POISONS; PAINTS AND PAINTING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

PERSON: CARDWELL, DIANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; BEDFORD-STUYVESANT (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



233 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: A Texas Town Holds Fast to Its Ties to a Classic 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: MARFA, Tex., June 8 

 BODY:
All that remains of the Victorian mansion's facade are some timbers stretching into the sky above the West Texas plain. The Rolls-Royce parked among the cattle herd has been replaced by a pickup truck with a bumper sticker proclaiming, "Beef: It's What's For Dinner."
 Yet the legacy of "Giant," the 1956 film that captured the transformation of Texas from an aristocratic ranching economy into a state dominated by rough-hewn oilmen, persists. Nowhere more, perhaps, than in this town of about 2,300 in the Big Bend region of Texas, where "Giant" was filmed. 
 More than 150 people gathered on the patio of Hotel El Paisano here on Saturday night to watch the first public screening of "Giant" in Marfa since the director George Stevens brought James Dean, Elizabeth Taylor, Rock Hudson and Dennis Hopper here in 1955 to film what was then the most expensive movie ever made. The screening coincided with the scheduled release of the digital version of the movie on Tuesday.
The filming of "Giant," which cost $5 million to make, left an impression among residents here.
"I'm a little too much of an old lady to say this, but boy did Jimmy Dean have this little sexy giggle," Lucy Garcia, a retired baby sitter who was 15 when the film was made, said in an interview. "We had a 10 p.m. curfew back then, but I'd stay out until 9:59, trying to get me a look at Jimmy."
For its time, "Giant" was considered forward-looking because it explored the segregation between whites and Mexican-Americans in West Texas. One of the film's defining moments is when Rock Hudson's character, the land baron Jordan (Bick) Benedict, gets into a fistfight over the honor of his grandson, who is half Hispanic. (He loses.)
But the movie's impact went beyond Marfa. The play "Come Back to the Five and Dime, Jimmy Dean, Jimmy Dean," by Ed Graczyk, describes a group of people in the fictitious small Texas town of McCarthy, which gathers 20 years after the star was killed in a car accident shortly after completing "Giant."
Tino Villanueva wrote a book-length poem, "Scene From the Movie Giant," that explored the racial tension in Texas between Latinos and whites. Some residents said that tension still lingered in Marfa, even as the town has started a transformation from a ranching outpost into an artist colony.
The Chinati Foundation, built to house large-scale sculpture, has brought in a stream of outsiders. The town's main movie house, the Palace Theater, shut down in the 1970's and now serves as a studio for a private illustrator. Across the street, the Texas Theater, which was frequented mainly by Mexican-Americans, is shuttered.
"Back then it was pretty damn near impossible for a Mexican boy to go out with an Anglo girl," said Mateo Quintana, 67, who owns a barbershop on Highland Street, Marfa's main drag. "Those months when they were making 'Giant' were kind of a chance to forget about all that."
During the filming of the movie, Warner Brothers kept a plane at Marfa's airstrip to carry each day's film to California, where it was processed and returned the following day for editing.
Mr. Stevens, the director, viewed the rough edits at screenings -- which were open to the public -- at the Palace Theater.
The crew and nearly the entire cast stayed at the Paisano, recalled Marcos Pena, who as a teenager worked as a porter at the hotel.
"I used to serve Elizabeth Taylor breakfast every morning; she liked a fruit plate," said Mr. Pena, 67, who now works as a serviceman for a gas company. "She had thissilver bowl filled with money that she'd stick her hand into and give me tips of $1, $5, whatever was in there."
Leaning on the fence outside his trailer home, Mr. Pena said in an interview that James Dean, who played the role of Jett Rink, the ranch hand turned oil tycoon, was the most amicable of the cast, often shooting pool with townspeople in the basement of the hotel. Rock Hudson, Mr. Pena said, was "a little bit more conservative, kind of like a snob."
Unlike many other parts of Texas, Marfa -- which was named in 1883 by the wife of a railroad executive after a character in the Dostoyevsky novel "Brothers Karamazov" -- remained dependent on ranching even after the Texas oil boom.
"Giant was considered a highwater mark of a certain view of Texas when it was still thought of with some awe as a super-state," said Don B. Graham, a professor of English at the University of Texas and author of "Cowboys and Cadillacs: How Hollywood Looks at Texas."
Nostalgia for the state's ranching ethos permeated the screening of "Giant" on Saturday night, which was sponsored by Warner Brothers. Proceeds from the $50-per-ticket event -- organized by Kirby F. Warnock, a part-time rancher and documentary filmmaker -- went to Marfa's library.
Two actors who appeared in the movie, Jane Withers (Vashti Snythe) and Earl Holliman (Bob Dace), signed autographs.
" 'Giant' continues to define Texas," said Bill D. Rollins, a San Antonio stockbroker and energy company executive, who attended the fund-raiser wearing cowboy boots with the words "Giant" and "Marfa" tooled into the leather. "It's about the power of the land, both above it for the herds and below it for the mineral rights."
Clay Evans, on whose family ranch "Giant" was filmed, sat quietly for a moment in the cab of his pickup Saturday night after fans of the film made a pilgrimage to the site where the facade of Bick Benedict's mansion has been left to the elements, a few tame antelope and the occasional jack rabbit.
"My daddy let the Hollywood people on our land and we had some fun," Mr. Evans, 67, said.
While some residents of Marfa reminisce fondly about the filming of "Giant," others say some of the issues raised in the film still persist -- even after the population of 3,600 dwindled by more than a third in the mid-1950's, when the debate over segregation gained momentum in Texas and elsewhere.
For example, Ms. Garcia, the former baby sitter, said Hispanics and Anglos in Marfa were at odds over space in the town's cemeteries, which remain almost entirely segregated. Whites in Marfa, she said, were hesitant to sell Hispanics the land they need to enlarge their cemetery.
"A lot of us Mexicans are still pushed around by the gringo like in the time of 'Giant,' " Ms. Garcia said. "Some things in Texas take a long time to die."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A skeleton of the fictitious Benedict mansion from "Giant" remains just outside Marfa. A photograph shows what the set looked like. Lucy Garcia, below, keeps mementos from the filming of the movie.; James Dean fills the screen in a digital premiere of "Giant" on Saturday at Hotel El Paisano in Marfa, Tex., where the film was made in 1955. (Photographs by Christ Chavez for The New York Times) Map of Texas highlighting Marfa: Marfa, Tex., was named after a character in a Dostoyevsky novel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); FILM (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MOVIE FILMING (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); CURFEW (64%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (63%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (62%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (60%); THEATER (56%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (50%) MOTION PICTURES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON; STEVENS, GEORGE; DEAN, JAMES (1931-55); TAYLOR, ELIZABETH; HUDSON, ROCK (D1985); HOPPER, DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) TEXAS; MARFA (TEX)

TITLE: GIANT (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



234 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: EMPLOYMENT; 
Iraqis Are Out of Jobs, But Payday Still Comes

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 8 

 BODY:
It was payday on Saturday at Iraq's state-owned irrigation company. But there was not a hint of work in sight.
 "Nobody has asked us to do anything in weeks," said Mahmoud Hameed, a geologist who had come only to pick up his pay. "We are all just waiting to see when the real work begins." 
 Two months after American forces seized control of Iraq, American officials now find themselves approving salaries for hundreds of thousands of no-show and no-work jobs. 
With American blessings, the Iraqi government is paying full salaries to at least 200,000 employees at government ministries and the country's huge but moribund government-owned companies.
Mechanics linger listlessly around machines that do not run. Clerks and secretaries wait for assignments that never come. And many others do not show up at all, except on payday.
In the absence of other sources of jobs, American officials are reluctantly relying on the same kind of featherbedding invoked by moribund Communist-era conglomerates in Russia and Central Europe. 
"This is going to continue for a good while," said one senior American official for the Coalition Provisional Authority, the United States-led administration in Iraq. "Nobody is going to quibble about paying a few more dinars into this economy to get things moving."
There are no job statistics in the confusion of postwar Iraq. But Iraqi and foreign experts alike estimate that at least one-third of the work force is either unemployed or underemployed.
When the United States Army offered to pay people about $5 a day to help haul garbage and repair schools, at least one job site last week was mobbed by more than a thousand laborers.
Job desperation is evident on the streets of any major city. Despite widespread warnings about hucksters who pose as job recruiters, thousands of Iraqis continue to pay 25 cents to $1 apiece just to fill out job applications from street vendors who claim to have contacts at American companies.
The joblessness is likely to worsen. At least 100,000 Iraqi soldiers and civilians, from battle-scarred lieutenants to mess-hall cooks, were thrown out of work last month when American administrators dissolved the Ministries of Defense and Information.
American officials estimate that as many as 250,000 people work for government-owned companies and civilian government ministries, and most of those jobs currently involve little or no work. 
Most of Iraq's civilian ministries are still only minimally functional, damaged by bombing during the war and emptied by looters afterward. 
Iraq's state-owned businesses employ 96,000 workers and produce goods ranging from electrical motors and plastics to packaged foods and clothing.
An additional 60,000 people worked for Iraq's military-industrial companies, which used to produce weapons, as well as commercial products like machine tools and iron-casting equipment.
Most of those companies, military and civilian alike, are producing nothing at all. The few that have resumed operations, according to both Americans and Iraqis, are producing at a small fraction of their full capacity.
The hidden unemployment poses a number of challenges for Americans trying to rebuild Iraq.
On one hand, the state-owned companies represent what many American officials see as the worst of an insular Socialist economy: antiquated, bloated, incapable of innovation and shielded from competition. To that end, American officials are mapping out a plan to sell off the state-owned companies to private investors as soon as possible.
At the same time, American officials are even more worried about aggravating Iraqi unemployment at a time when Iraqis are already seething with resentment about street violence and electricity shortages.
So at least for the moment, American officials are seeking peace through no-show jobs.
The strategy is on display at scores of different enterprises, from the State Company for Vegetable Oil and Soaps to the State Company for the Electrical Industry.
The vegetable oil company has restarted several lines of soaps, but it is now competing against a flood of new imports from Egypt, Iran and Europe.
Of 3,900 employees, the vegetable oil company is employing only 250 people at the moment. And even if the other factories all resume operation, company officials estimate they need only 40 percent of their current work force.
Iraq's hidden unemployment was particularly visible at the state electrical company, which makes lighting equipment and motors for air-cooling systems.
Of 3,100 employees at two major factory complexes, company officials say, about 10 percent are actually working right now.
On Saturday, the company reinstituted a six-day workweek at its main plant in Baghdad. But the official workday lasted only four hours, from 8 a.m. to noon, and many workers began leaving as soon as they had signed in.
Many of those who remained basked in the morning sun in the courtyard between factory buildings, in a scene that could have been mistaken for social gatherings at a downtown park.
"It's better to be here than just to stay at home," said Anees Ali, a maintenance engineer who was chatting with about a dozen other colleagues. "Where else is there to go? We don't have a choice." 
Under a new salary plan hammered out with help from American advisers, wages at the electric company range from 100,000 dinars a month, or about $70, to 500,000 a month for the director general.
The technical manager for the electric company, Khalis al-Asadi, said it needed time before it could be competitive. 
"If you rush into the private sector quickly, it would come as quite a shock," he said.
At other state-owned companies, most workers do not even bother to show up, because the factories have not yet recovered from the bombing and looting. 
"I haven't even given it a thought," said Anwar Jamil, who has worked for two years at a government-owned plastics company and who recently picked up his salary of 200,000 dinars, about $140.
Employees at both the government-owned companies and at ministries routinely express confidence that everybody will keep their jobs and their salaries.
"They created the problem," said Mr. Jamil, referring to the Americans as he sipped tea on Friday at a cafe in Baghdad's book market. "They should solve it."
American and Iraqi officials quietly warn that employees like Mr. Jamil are in for a shock.
A senior American official who has been mapping strategy for Iraq's state-owned companies said on Saturday that the occupying authority was hoping to agree on a strategy for privatization within the next few weeks. 
"Once it starts," the official added, "It could happen quickly."
It may already be starting. At the state-owned company for irrigation, where idle employees received their first pay in two months today, a top administrator said the officials at the Ministry of Irrigation had told him he had just two months to cover his costs.
"Any requests for water wells, any requests anywhere, we will do it," he said. "But we aren't getting any requests."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, employees of Iraq's electrical company. Workers at a factory in Baghdad have been showing up and getting paid although most of the factory is not operating. Below, Ali Muhammad collects job applications. (Photographs by Matt Moyer/World Picture News, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ARMIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); MACHINE TOOLS (76%); IRRIGATION (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); RIOTS (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); TERRORISM (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PRIVATIZATION; UNEMPLOYMENT; LABOR; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SHORTAGES; TERRORISM 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



235 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Finding China, on a Brooklyn Table; 
A Kinsman of Marco Polo Eats Italian in Carroll Gardens

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
It all started out as a bit of a lark. To generate a little buzz about the 20th anniversary celebration of the Marco Polo Ristorante in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, the owner, Joe Chirico, and a public relations consultant thought they would try to find a relative of the great traveler himself who might be persuaded to come.
 They did not have great hopes for success; even if they could find someone, they thought, he or she was unlikely to make a trans-Atlantic trip for an upscale Italian neighborhood place that made good. But, in the end, there he was: Siro Polo Padolecchia, standing in the dining room at the corner of Court and Union Streets, elegant and courtly in a gray suit and a Knights of Malta pin. He chatted gamely with the chef about Venetian restaurants, sipped cappuccino and handed out business cards from the several organizations he runs, all within sight of a mural dedicated to his ancestor, with whom he shares quite a distinctive nose. 
 Mr. Padolecchia, who says he is the last living relative of Marco Polo, is a native of Venice who explains that his two last names together mean "Polo son of Polo." 
He has traveled from his home in Monte Carlo for this sort of thing before. There was the time that he served as chairman of a three-day festival celebrating the 700th anniversary of Marco Polo's return to Venice.
There was the time he went to the Marco Polo restaurant in Xiamen, China, where, he said diplomatically, "The food was certainly not better than the food I will experience here with my friend Joe, but I think they have done all they could not to make Marco Polo descendants upset."
Mr. Padolecchia even has an idea to somehow link the various Marco Polo restaurants he has seen in China, the United States and Europe. "These people certainly have something in common, at least the name of Marco," he said.
But the true quest for Mr. Padolecchia, who has held diplomatic posts in Asia and is the president of Euro China, an organization devoted to increasing economic cooperation between China and the West, is clearing up a historical mystery. It rankles him a bit that Marco Polo is always presented as an adventurer or some sort of "searcher of women or something," he said. He was, Mr. Padolecchia argues, in fact on a mission from Pope Clement VII to the court of the Mongol emperor Kublai Khan, when he met a Chinese woman who became the love of his life.
"It's the moment in which Marco meets for the first time the person about whom history for strange reasons doesn't speak too much," Mr. Padolecchia said, "which is supposed to be the wife or concubine of Marco." 
"Unfortunately the destruction, the ravages made by Turks, by Arabs, by you name it, Slavs and et cetera, have destroyed the churches in our area, which have destroyed the documentation which we should have had," he said.
So, using his own money and with help from Chinese authorities in Jiangsu province, where Marco Polo is said to have been a governor, he has been trying to trace the woman's story and locate her grave.
It is "dramatic research" that Mr. Padolecchia's great-grandfather began, and now he thinks it is only a matter of time and money before her final resting place is found.
In the area, the Chinese have built a small Marco Polo museum, he said, "which makes me very soft in my heart when I think about it because we know it is there."
"Maybe in the next 10 years, in the next 100 years, but we have to find this reality because this exists and must be found," he said, "because we are very much annoyed, worried and upset that history does not speak about that."
For people in Carroll Gardens, though, the arrival of Mr. Padolecchia, who is directly descended, 33 generations hence, from Marco Polo's brother, is a little bit like the arrival of history itself.
"The last relative of Marco Polo -- all the Italians are excited," said Buddy Scotto, who owns a funeral home not far from the restaurant and has been active in several efforts to improve the neighborhood and clean up the Gowanus Canal. "Or I guess we're supposed to be. Celebrating Marco Polo is about as Italian as you can get, so I'm going to go and wave the Italian-American flag and maybe get them to agree with me on cleaning up the canal."
Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz said he planned to attend as well. "Because I'm devoted to Brooklyn I'm going to attend and stay the course of time, one course at a time," he said, adding that he was looking forward to the restaurant's signature pasta dish, homemade fettuccine tossed with truffle oil in a hollowed-out Parmesan wheel. 
"I like the red sauce stuff, the chicken Parmesan," said Mr. Markowitz, who is organizing a second boroughwide diet, intended to better the health of all Brooklynites. "Forgive me, it doesn't sound sexy, but I like it. I like good basic wholesome food."
But tonight's festivities will be anything but basic. The guest list includes owners of popular Italian restaurants like Cucina in Park Slope and San Domenico on Central Park South, members of the food press, elected officials like Mr. Markowitz and United States Representatives Nydia M. Velazquez and Edolphus Towns, as well as Italian and Chinese diplomats.
And the menu, compiled after weeks of research and testing, is a six-course Venetian extravaganza, heavy on seafood and nonexistent on pasta, with a different wine for each course.
Venetians, Mr. Padolecchia explained, do not eat pasta. "Marco Polo brought noodles from China but the noodles have never been received, accepted, in our republic of Venice, but accepted by all the rest of the world, starting with the Italians," he said.
"National dishes," he added, are polenta and seafood, as well as "vegetables, from which we prepare the famous minestrone."
The meal, served by waiters in 13th-century garb, is to begin with scallops and langoustines sauteed with shallots and brandy and end with a sponge cake filled with gelato and topped with a chocolate sauce.
In between, the chef plans a rice course with pancetta, green peas, butter and Parmesan; crabmeat-stuffed turbot; and roast duck breast with raisins, pine nuts and balsamic vinegar reduction served over polenta.
For Mr. Chirico, who also owns the landmark restaurant Gage and Tollner in downtown Brooklyn, the evening represents a career capstone. "When I saw him yesterday in the airport, right away I recognized him," Mr. Chirico said, a bit incredulous.
He added, "I am so thrilled, really, finally to meet somebody, you know, who was descended from Marco Polo." Indeed, he said, his son is named Marco.
Mr. Chirico emigrated from Calabria in 1964 and opened several businesses over the years, but was looking to do something a little nicer in 1983. Inspired by a celebration of Marco Polo in Venice, he decided to name a restaurant he was opening for him. He envisioned it as an elegant tablecloth establishment serving authentic Northern and Southern Italian dishes.
The restaurant, which Mr. Chirico built from scratch with a mix of light-colored stone and dark brick, struggled in the beginning, but now it is something of an institution among the neighborhood's longstanding Italian-American population. 
In the evenings, especially on the weekends, patrons dress up and drop their cars with the valets outside. Upstairs, Mr. Chirico has a banquet room with a stained glass inset in the ceiling that has been the setting for everything from a meeting of the Italian Teachers Federation to an elaborate party held by a couple in a rocky marriage (they split up).
After tonight's gala, Mr. Chirico said he planned to offer the special Venetian menu created by his chef of 17 years, Francesco Insingo, for a week, and then the restaurant's original 1983 menu at 1983 prices for the following week.
As for Mr. Padolecchia, he said he would continue his investigations into the long lost love of his ancestor, while pursuing his many diplomatic ventures.
Marco Polo, he said, "was a wonderful person who started his life with an effective mission."
"I understand that he carried out his mission in the best possible way," Mr. Padolecchia continued, "but I understand that he also suffered terribly much for the loss of the only person he really loved."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 28, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on June 9 about the 20th-anniversary celebration of the Marco Polo Ristorante in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, which was attended by a man said to be Marco Polo's last living descendant, misidentified the pope who authorized Polo's mission to the court of the Mongol emperor Kublai Khan around 1271. He was Gregory X, not Clement VII.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Siro Polo Padolecchia, who says he is the only living relative of Marco Polo, in the Marco Polo Ristorante in Brooklyn. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FESTIVALS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (50%) RESTAURANTS; NAMES, PERSONAL; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: MARCO POLO RISTORANTE (NYC) 

PERSON: PADOLECCHIA, SIRO POLO; CARDWELL, DIANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (95%); TURKEY (79%); EUROPE (71%); ASIA (69%); MALTA (56%); MONACO (55%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



236 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Defections Leave Agency Low on Tinsel 

BYLINE:  By LAURA M. HOLSON 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 8 

 BODY:
It is turning into a tough year for International Creative Management, one of Hollywood's top talent agencies.
 There was the episode in March, when the superstar agent Ed Limato, who represents Mel Gibson and Denzel Washington, flung a drink at a reporter at Vanity Fair's Oscar party. 
 Another I.C.M. agent, Renee Tab, remains in a dispute with the Osbourne family matriarch, Sharon Osbourne, over a diamond necklace that Ms. Tab won in a raffle at Ms. Osbourne's New Year's Eve party. (Ms. Osbourne contends the agent was a gate-crasher and not eligible to win.) 
But it was not until the actress Julia Roberts, a longtime client of I.C.M., left last month to join the rival Creative Artists Agency that Hollywood began to wonder if something was seriously amiss at I.C.M.
Ms. Roberts had been a stalwart I.C.M. client since 1991, and during her time with the firm her salary rose to $20 million a picture and she won an Oscar for "Erin Brockovich." Her departure would be a big loss for I.C.M. under any circumstances, but it is even more significant because it came on the heels of other defections, including moves to Creative Artists by the actresses Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu, and to the William Morris Agency by Neil Jordan, the director of "The Crying Game."
Despite its troubles, I.C.M. remains a top talent agency, known especially for its stable of successful television shows -- it packaged "Friends," for example -- and filmmakers, like Peter Jackson, the director of the Oscar-nominated "The Lord of the Rings" franchise. Yet many Hollywood executives say that the agency has not been the same since its former co-chairman, James Wiatt, left in 1999 to become the head of William Morris and took several agents with him.
A telling sign of diminished luster came last year when I.C.M. hired an investment banker to help it woo outside investors. According to people briefed on those discussions, I.C.M. had no takers.
The chairman of I.C.M., Jeff Berg, acknowledged that he was concerned about the recent departure of stellar clients. "I don't want to be that glib to say this just happens," Mr. Berg said in an interview last week. "The important thing is that no one is in denial; no one is acting like it is not important."
The talent agency business has always been cyclical, with agents fired and hired at the whim of often fickle clients. "Actors have a harder time blowing off their hair colorist than the person guiding their careers," said Terry Press, the veteran marketing director at Dreamworks SKG.
But economic pressures are making the game more challenging than ever for talent agents, who generally work for a percentage of their clients' take. Hollywood studios facing their own financial pressures have stopped paying top dollar for midlevel stars, betting instead either on bankable names or on relative unknowns willing to work cheap.
And the proliferation of talent management firms is further chipping away at profits, making it even more important for agencies to keep and attract A-list stars -- not only to ensure a steady stream of revenue but to entice corporate partners, too.
"It's more than ever a zero-sum game," said Martin Kaplan, the director of the Norman Lear Center at the University of Southern California. "The number of names coming onto the A-list are fewer and far between, which means the way to grow is to steal from each other."
Each I.C.M. client has left for a different reason, Mr. Berg says. Ms. Diaz departed because her agent went to Creative Artists, he said, and Mr. Jordan left after directing a disappointing string of movies. Mr. Berg declined to discuss Ms. Liu, but a person apprised of her situation said she was frustrated at not getting better parts, despite starring in "Charlie's Angels."
Straying stars do occasionally return. Mr. Berg said that Michelle Pfeiffer, who has been represented by Mr. Limato for nearly two decades, left I.C.M. for Creative Artists in 2002 but returned after eight months.
Mr. Berg said he and his colleagues, who still represent big names like Roman Polanski and Jodie Foster, were placing a renewed focus on fostering young agents and even considering new hires from law firms or entertainment companies.
I.C.M.'s recent troubles may not be solely of the agency's own making. Some Hollywood producers, studio executives and agents say that Creative Arists -- Hollywood's pre-eminent talent agency, whose clients include Tom Cruise, Nicole Kidman and Renee Zellweger -- has been on an acquisition binge.
Creative Artists has recently signed, among others, Tobey Maguire, of "Spider-Man" fame, from the Gersh Agency. And it is not just well-known names they are after. One agent recalled that it sent four agents to New Orleans to woo a William Morris client, Taylor Hackford, the producer of "Proof of Life," who joined C.A.A.
"I don't know what the strategy is beyond sheer mass and market share," said one studio executive.
Some of Creative Artists' best-known clients seem to be wondering the same thing -- and questioning whether it might be spreading its star-stroking energies too thin. According to four executives at three separate talent agencies, the C.A.A. client Sandra Bullock, who along with Ms. Roberts is a Hollywood favorite in romantic comedies, met recently with competitors to discuss changing agencies. A spokeswoman for Ms. Bullock said she was staying at C.A.A.
And several competing agents recently said they have been receiving calls from disgruntled Creative Artists clients.
"Conceivably, they will have another turn on the merry-go-round," Mr. Kaplan said of C.A.A., noting that all of the top agencies, including I.C.M. and William Morris, have been a "flavor of the month" at one time.
Creative Artists declined to discuss its recruitment of Ms. Roberts or any other client, saying through a spokeswoman via e-mail, "it just doesn't make sense for us" to comment. Ms. Roberts's publicist said the actress could not be reached for comment.
Nor would Mr. Berg discuss his conversations with Ms. Roberts except to say, "We were saddened that she left and stand by the work we did on her behalf."
For much of her time at I.C.M. Ms. Roberts was represented by Elaine Goldsmith-Thomas, who left the agency in 2000 and helped Ms. Roberts with her production company, Red Om. Afterward, it was Mr. Berg who personally represented Ms. Roberts at I.C.M.
Ms. Roberts remains close to Ms. Goldsmith-Thomas, who is now producing the film "Mona Lisa Smile," starring Ms. Roberts, for Revolution Studios, where Ms. Goldsmith-Thomas is a producer.
I.C.M. devoted significant resources to helping Ms. Roberts set up Red Om, according to two people close to the arrangement.
And so, those people said, Mr. Berg and other agents at I.C.M. were surprised in late April, when Ms. Roberts telephoned Mr. Berg to say she was leaving the agency, saying that she needed a change -- a common brushoff when stars switch agents.
Creative Artists had tried to recruit Ms. Roberts for more than a decade, several Hollywood executives said. Its agent, Kevin Huvane, who represents Julianne Moore among others, is a longtime friend, having met Ms. Roberts in the 1980's with Dylan McDermott, who was Ms. Roberts's boyfriend, they said.
Perhaps as significant, Mr. Huvane and several other Creative Artists top agents are friends with Ms. Goldsmith-Thomas, despite her having worked at a competitor.
Ms. Goldsmith-Thomas declined to comment on Ms. Roberts's change of agencies or on her own relationship with Creative Artists. A spokeswoman for Mr. Huvane said via e-mail late last week that he was in New York with family members and not taking business calls.
Three people who know Ms. Roberts said they could not point to any one thing that I.C.M., and Mr. Berg specifically, who is generally regarded as more aloof than his C.A.A. counterparts, had done wrong. What many people are wondering about is what role, if any, Ms. Goldsmith-Thomas played in Ms. Roberts's decision to leave I.C.M.
If Ms. Goldsmith-Thomas had any influence, it would be perceived as a betrayal of I.C.M., a slight even by Hollywood standards. But friends and colleagues say Ms. Goldsmith-Thomas has denied influencing Ms. Roberts's defection.
In any case, Ms. Goldsmith-Thomas, as a film producer close to Ms. Roberts, could potentially benefit from Ms. Roberts's new relationship with C.A.A.
"You kind of do the math on that," said one talent agent, who knows all of the players, including Ms. Goldsmith-Thomas. "There is an agency now which is incentivized to help her more than I.C.M."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The defection of A-list actresses, from left, like Julia Roberts, Cameron Diaz and Lucy Liu from the International Creative Management talent agency to competitors has made for a tough year for Jeff Berg, right, its chairman, shown in 2000. Ms. Roberts won her Oscar and saw her salary rise to $20 million a picture while at I.C.M. (Variety); (Getty Images); (Associated Press)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); TALENT AGENTS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); FINE JEWELRY (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%) MOTION PICTURES; AGENTS (BUSINESS) 

COMPANY: CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (73%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (60%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT LTD (58%); WILLIAM MORRIS AGENCY INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT; CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY; WILLIAM MORRIS AGENCY 

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (73%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (73%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (60%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (60%)

PERSON: JULIA ROBERTS (90%); CAMERON DIAZ (78%); DENZEL WASHINGTON (57%) ROBERTS, JULIA; DIAZ, CAMERON; LIU, LUCY; JORDAN, NEIL; WIATT, JAMES A; HOLSON, LAURA M 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



237 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: Trying for Balance at Interior Dept. 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

DATELINE: DENVER, June 8 

 BODY:
While struggling with one of the worst droughts in history, planners from across the West gathered here Friday to hear Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton announce a grand new initiative called Water 2025. Most of the people in the audience could already guess four of its elements, and she did not disappoint them. 
 "Anyone who has ever heard me speak," Ms. Norton said with a calm smile, "knows that I talk about the four C's: communication, consultation and cooperation, all in the service of conservation." 
 To Ms. Norton, the four C's are the basis of what she and President Bush call the new environmentalism, which emphasizes cooperation at the local level rather than federal edicts. In the case of Water 2025, rather than dictating a national policy, she proposed to encourage innovations suggested by local officials. "There's no one-size-fits-all policy for water," she said. 
To Ms. Norton's critics, however, the four C's can seem more like the three M's: a maddening, meaningless mantra. 
Whatever the strategy means for the environment, it has helped Ms. Norton avoid political trouble, no mean feat for a Republican who manages one-fifth of America's land and was originally the most controversial cabinet nominee. A coalition of environmental groups tried to block her confirmation by running newspaper advertisements that showed half her face and called her "so far on the fringe" that "she's off the page." 
Today some of those environmentalists say her soothing talk and velvet tactics are providing cover for some of the most destructive policies in decades for promoting development on public lands. Meanwhile, some of her former libertarian allies complain that she is so busy cooperating with entrenched interests, from environmentalists to miners, that she is ignoring the free-market principles she once championed.
When confronted with criticism, Ms. Norton tends to change the subject to cheerier topics, like the cooperative projects her department sponsors with local conservation groups, public officials and "citizen stewards" for protecting wildlife near their homes. Her new environmentalism is intended to produce incentives for voluntary conservation, not the sort of regulations and litigation favored by lobbyists and lawyers inside the Beltway. 
"We can do a better job of protecting the piping plover on Long Island by forming a partnership with the local community instead of sending in law enforcement authorities to hand out fines," she said in an interview. "We have good relationships with groups that do work on the ground, like the Nature Conservancy. But there are other environmental groups, especially in Washington, that get their funding by sending out direct mail saying that terrible things are going to happen." 
Ms. Norton has long favored the sort of peaceful capitalist transactions celebrated by Ayn Rand, one of her early influences. Now 49, she grew up in Denver and began her legal career defending property rights at the Mountain States Legal Foundation under the leadership of James Watt, who was interior secretary under Ronald Reagan. Friends who knew her then say she seemed less like a future politician than a potential judge: a little shy, diligently studious, remarkably bright.
When Mr. Watt went to the Interior Department, she went with him. His freewheeling statements soon ended his career, but she proved to have a knack for politics. She went back to Colorado and was elected attorney general. In the 2000 campaign, she and Lynn Scarlett, the president of the libertarian Reason Foundation, advised Mr. Bush to embrace a new environmentalism based on the four C's instead of what Ms. Scarlett calls the four P's.
"The old environmentalism," said Ms. Scarlett, now the assistant secretary for policy, "was based on prescription, punishment, process -- have a permit, pass go -- and piecemeal decisions pitting one species against another. We want a kinder, gentler conservation that encourages innovation."
No one denies that Ms. Norton has personally mastered the kinder, gentler part of the job. "I can't imagine her saying an unkind word about anyone," Ms. Scarlett said. "I have never heard her raise her voice in two years here." But her style inspires unkind words by others.
"She's been called the Stepford Secretary," said Jim Zoia, the Democratic staff director of the House Committee on Resources. "She's doing a similar agenda to Jim Watt's, but she's more successful because she doesn't have an in-your-face style. She comes before Congressional committees and smiles and is good at brushing aside pointed questions."
Democrats and mainstream environmentalists fault Ms. Norton for opening up public lands to industry and for her unsuccessful effort to allow drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. "Gale Norton has fulfilled our expectation for being the handmaiden of the oil, gas, mining and ranching industries in the West," said David Alberswerth, a federal lands expert with the Wilderness Society, one of the groups that opposed her confirmation. 
Others give her credit for providing more money for local conservation projects and for improving existing wildlife refuges. "Her record is mixed," said Paul W. Hansen, executive director of the Izaak Walton League of America. "She moved the largest annual increase in refuge funding over the past 20 years, but she is resistant to establishing new fish and wildlife refuges." 
Bill Owens, the governor of Colorado, said it would be impossible for any interior secretary serving under President Bush to please most environmentalists. "Gale is doing a very good job of balancing the competing interests that face her," he said. "Westerners feel good knowing that she's sitting in Washington."
James L. Connaughton, President Bush's senior environmental adviser, praised her handling of the dispute in 2001 between drought-stricken farmers in Oregon who wanted water from the Upper Klamath Lake and conservationists who wanted to leave it there for the suckerfish.
"Gale made the very tough political decision to cut off the water to the farmers," Mr. Connaughton said. "Farmers were threatening to blow up the dam and everyone was running to court. Now, two years later, the temperature has gone way down and people are talking to each other thanks to Gale."
Ms. Norton encouraged the formation of a "water bank" in the Klamath basin allowing farmers to be paid for relinquishing water to conservationists. That solution was in keeping with the scholarly work she did two decades ago at the Political Economy Research Center, a hub of free-market environmentalism in Montana. But her former colleagues there say that otherwise she has generally put little of her theories into practice. Her midterm report card from the research center contained mainly C's and faulted her for leaving most land-use decisions up to bureaucrats rather than using auctions and other market mechanisms. 
"This administration had a chance to promote free-market solutions to environmental problems, but politics has forced a swing of the pendulum from Democratic preservation to Republican commodity use," said Terry Anderson, the research center's executive director. While Ms. Norton's new initiative for water in the West calls for more buying and selling of water rights, he said, much of the plan's talk of collaboration and new technology sounds suspiciously like old-fashioned subsidies for farmers and ranchers. 
Other experts, though, say Ms. Norton has tempered at least some Republican pork-barrel instincts. "Secretary Norton's Water 2025 report is actually quite remarkable, given the Bush administration's political base in the interior West," said Thomas Graff, a water specialist at Environmental Defense. "It promises almost nothing in the way of funding traditional dam and canal projects, and it supports most of the reform agenda that environmentalists, libertarians and hard-nosed economists of both parties have traditionally espoused."
When asked how the realities of Washington have influenced her academic theories, Ms. Norton, as usual, chose her words carefully. "Academic ideas are terrific in helping you understand policy problems and find creative solutions," she said, "but when you're implementing things you have to find proposals that are going to generate widespread support." It was not a wildly original insight, but it was also guaranteed not to offend anyone she might need for future cooperation in conservation. The four C's were safe.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton and hawk at the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge. She also met with water officials. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); LOBBYING (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); WILDLIFE (70%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (64%); LITIGATION (60%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (50%) ENVIRONMENT; LAND USE POLICIES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERIOR DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) TIERNEY, JOHN; NORTON, GALE (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (74%) COLORADO, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



238 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-18

Islamic Militants Stage Joint Attack on Israeli Post
The three main Palestinian militant groups -- Hamas, Islamic Jihad and Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades -- staged an unusual joint attack on an Israeli Army post at Erez, the main border crossing between Israel and Gaza, killing four soldiers and registering their clear and violent opposition to the American-led peace initiative. A fifth Israeli soldier was killed in a second attack in the West Bank city of Hebron. A1

Qaeda Suspects Deny Iraq Link
Two of the highest-ranking leaders of Al Qaeda in American custody have told the C.I.A. in separate interrogations that the terrorist organization did not work jointly with the Iraqi government of Saddam Hussein, according to several intelligence officials. A1

President Bush's top foreign policy advisers insisted that all of the evidence available to them starting last October pointed to efforts by Saddam Hussein to revive his weapons programs. A14

Blair Aide Admits Mistake
A top aide to Prime Minister Tony Blair wrote to the head of Britain's intelligence service this spring conceding that the government's presentation of a report on Iraqi arms was mishandled and promising that "far greater care" would be taken with files in the future so as not to discredit the spy agency's work, a British newspaper said. A14

Paying Iraq's Workers
With American blessings, the Iraqi government is paying full salaries to at least 200,000 employees at government ministries and the country's huge but moribund government-owned companies, mostly for no-show and no-work jobs. A14

Death Toll Rises in Afghanistan
An Afghan teenager, wounded in the suicide car-bomb attack on German peacekeepers on Saturday, died in the hospital from his injuries, bringing to five those killed in the attack, an Afghan police official said. A18

Poland Votes to Join E.U.
Polish voters overwhelmingly approved entry into the European Union in a nationwide referendum, but a down-to-the-wire finish left many supporters of membership fearful that low turnout might make the referendum invalid. A10

NATIONAL A20-27

Medicare Debate Weighs Merits of Private Drug Plan
Congress begins a politically polarizing debate over prescription drug benefits for the elderly and a central issue is whether private health plans can deliver better care, at lower cost, than the traditional Medicare program created 38 years ago. A1

Air Force Promotions Blocked
Senator Larry E. Craig of Idaho is blocking the promotions of more than 850 Air Force officers, including young pilots who fought in Iraq and the general nominated to bail out the scandal-plagued United States Air Force Academy, in a rare clash between the Pentagon and a senior Republican lawmaker. A1

Jurors vs. Houston Prosecutors
Two grand juries investigating reports of ineptitude in Houston's police crime laboratory have widened their inquiry to include local prosecutors, asking about their potential criminal culpability for winning convictions with bad evidence. A20

Tape of Abduction Released
Police officials investigating the abduction of a girl in San Jose, Calif., released a grainy surveillance videotape that contains images and sounds from the crime. A24

Laboratory Plans in Question
The possible flooding of a former gold mine in Lead, S.C., may ruin plans to turn the mine into an vast underground laboratory for particle physics, geology and biology research. A22

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Disease Outbreak in Midwest
Monkeypox, a viral disease related to smallpox but less infectious and less deadly, has been detected for the first time in the Americas, with at least 23 cases reported in three Midwestern states, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said. A1

Weather Delays Probe Launch
A forecast of high winds and severe storms forced NASA to delay launching one of two probes that are to land and look for water on Mars. The probes, robots on wheels, will look for evidence that water played a role in the planet's geological history. A26

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

With Release of Book, Clinton Takes the Spotlight
In one weekend, Hillary Rodham Clinton has abandoned her image as a low-key, constituent-minded junior senator, bracing for the release of her memoirs. Mrs. Clinton spent the weekend drawing the kind of publicity that she has not had since being sworn in two years ago as the only First Lady to take a seat in Congress. B1

Puerto Rican Day Hits Fifth Ave
There is the Fifth Avenue of Saks Fifth Avenue and Bergdorf Goodman, and then there is the Fifth Avenue that comes to life during the National Puerto Rican Day parade. The storied street transforms into a whirl of pride and nostalgia, beauty queens and marching bands, hip hop and salsa. B1

ARTS E1-10

Broadway's Best Awarded
In a theater season darkened by war, terrorist alerts and seemingly relentless rain, "Hairspray" proved to be the perfect multicolored, upbeat antidote, winning eight prizes including best musical at the 57th annual Tony Awards at Radio City Music Hall. Eugene O'Neil's classic "Long Day's Journey Into Night" was crowned best revival. E1

OBITUARIES B7

SPORTS D1-8

Ferrero Wins French Open
Spaniard Juan Carlos Ferrero defeated unseeded Dutchman Martin Verkerk, 6-1, 6-3, 6-2, to win his first French Open Championship. Mr. Ferrero, 23, finally captured his first French Open championship, having lost to the eventual champion the previous three years at Roland Garros. D1

San Antonio Wins Game Three
The Spurs beat the New Jersey Nets, 84-79, to take a 2-1 lead in the National Basketball Association finals. San Antonio point guard Tony Parker scored 26 points, including 11 in the fourth quarter, to lead the Spurs. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Iraqi Oil Production Delay
During the war, oil traders thought Iraqi exports would resume by late May or early June. Now, the exports are likely to be delayed at least a month. C1

Trouble in Hollywood?
In addition to the departure of Julia Roberts from International Creative Management, one of Hollywood's top talent agencies, a series of questionable incidents involving the company's agents is prompting many in Hollywood to wonder if something is seriously amiss at I.C.M. C1

Power of Online Marketing
Just as the Iraqi war showed off the power and speed of America's high-tech weapons, the marketing of the "Iraqi Most Wanted" cards showed the ability of the Internet and e-mail to promote a product with overwhelming force. C1

Seeking Faster Web Access
The United States, where the Internet was invented, now falls behind Japan, Korea and Canada in deploying high-speed Internet access in homes and businesses. But advocates for quicker transfer of e-mail, Web site content and music files, take note: Peter K. Pitsch is on the case. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: Keeping the public clueless; failed governance, failing oceans; relief from high drug costs; a note to our readers.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E9
Crossword E2
Weather B8
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HAMAS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); MEDICARE (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); DEATHS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); RANKINGS (70%); ESPIONAGE (69%); JURY TRIALS (68%); GRAND JURY (68%); APPROVALS (68%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (65%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); FOREIGN POLICY (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (84%); AL-AQSA MARTYRS BRIGADES (84%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (84%); HAMAS (84%); AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (69%); TONY BLAIR (68%); LARRY CRAIG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (96%); IRAQ (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); POLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



239 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
Book Gives Mrs. Clinton New Turn in the Spotlight

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8 

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton has worked hard over the last two years to project an image as a low-key, constituent-minded junior senator from New York. But in one weekend, she has abandoned that mantle and, for the first time, embraced her status as a celebrity senator.
 The release of her memoir, "Living History," on Monday, meant Mrs. Clinton spent the weekend drawing the kind of publicity that she has not had since being sworn in two years ago as the only first lady to take a seat in Congress. 
 Not only is Mrs. Clinton the subject of a cover story in Time magazine this week, but she also scheduled a series of television interviews and appearances over the next few days to discuss her book, starting with an interview with Barbara Walters that was broadcast tonight.
In her 562-page book, Mrs. Clinton provides her own account of some of the darkest days in the Clinton White House, from major policy failures (the administration's drive to overhaul the nation's health-care system, an effort she oversaw) to deeply personal hardships and humiliations (her husband's infidelity).
The publicity surrounding the book makes clear that Mrs. Clinton remains a subject of intense public fascination, even now, two and a half years after she left the White House.
What is less clear is whether her account of her days in the White House will allow her to open a new chapter in her public life and establish herself as a figure to be reckoned with in the national Democratic Party, as some of her advisers hope.
Democratic Party strategists marveled today at the fact that she has already managed to get more publicity than all nine of the candidates hoping to win the Democratic presidential nomination in 2004.
"They must be going out of their minds today," one party strategist said, referring to the Democratic candidates for president. "They can't even get on Page A27, but Hillary's on the front page of newspapers all over the country."
Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic consultant in New York, called the book a skillful attempt to reinvent the image of a woman whose words and deeds in the White House were the subject of bewilderment and derision.
"What she has done is create a national constituency for a newly defined Hillary Clinton," he said. "This is her attempt to take 15 minutes of fame in one context and extend it to a half-hour of fame in another context. That's what's going on here."
In addition to discussing her husband's infidelity, a subject she has avoided in the past, Mrs. Clinton, for the first time, answers a question that continues to hang over her today: Why did she stay married to him?
"It's not a question I welcome, but given the public nature of our lives, it's one I know will be asked again and again," she writes. "What can I say to explain a love that has persisted for decades and has grown through our shared experiences of parenting a daughter, burying our parents and tending our extended families, a lifetime's worth of friends, a common faith and an abiding commitment to our country?"
"All I know is that no one understands me better and no one can make me laugh the way Bill does," she continues. "Even after all these years, he is still the most interesting, energizing and fully alive person I have ever met. Bill Clinton and I started a conversation in the spring of 1971, and more than 30 years later we're still talking."
To be sure, Mrs. Clinton writes about wanting "to wring Bill's neck" after he finally admitted his infidelity with Monica Lewinsky, a White House intern. As millions of Americans do, the Clintons worked things out in counseling, she writes.
She calls her husband's conduct "morally wrong," but Mrs. Clinton is also sharply critical of the man who led the investigation into the Lewinsky matter, Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel. "The more I believed that Starr was abusing his power, the more I sympathized with Bill, at least politically," she writes. 
"Privately, I was still working on forgiving Bill," she writes, "but my fury at those who had deliberately sabotaged him helped me on that score."
For the first time, Mrs. Clinton also describes how difficult it was for her to see her marriage publicly scrutinized after the Lewinsky scandal broke. "Did we stand close together or apart?" she says, recalling the commentary inspired by her every public gesture, large or small. "Was I frowning or crying behind dark glasses?"
In another chapter, Mrs. Clinton recounts her role as chief architect of the president's plan to guarantee health insurance for all Americans. She acknowledges tactical mistakes but does not concede that the proposal was fundamentally misguided, as many critics have argued.
"We were trying to move too quickly on a bill that would fundamentally alter American social and economic policy for years to come," she writes. By March 1993, she says, "We were already losing the race."
Mrs. Clinton lavishly praises friends and advisers. Ira C. Magaziner has a "brilliant and creative mind." James Carville has "one of the most brilliant tactical minds in American politics." Robert E. Rubin, the former treasury secretary, is "fabulously smart."
It is open to question whether Mrs. Clinton's account is the deliberate calculation of a politician out to overhaul her image, or a glimpse of the true feelings of a woman who is no longer bound by the constraints of being a president's wife. Whatever the case, Democratic strategists said today, the book is likely to cause many people to re-evaluate a woman who is likely to continue to loom large in American politics.
"Look at what she has done in this one weekend," said Phillip Friedman, a Democratic strategist in New York. "She has commanded more attention than the nine Democratic presidential candidates combined, she has given her version of a scandal that involved her family, and she has begun to move on to a posture as a national leader in the party."

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); LITERATURE (71%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); HEALTH CARE (67%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARBARA WALTERS (56%) CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN); CLINTON, BILL; LEWINSKY, MONICA; HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: LIVING HISTORY (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



240 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: MEDICARE DEBATE FOCUSES ON MERITS OF PRIVATE PLANS 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8 

 BODY:
As Congress begins a politically polarizing debate over prescription drug benefits for the elderly this week, a central issue is whether private health plans can deliver better care, at lower cost, than the traditional Medicare program created 38 years ago.
 Much of the debate will focus on the merits of private plans: Will they be acceptable to Medicare beneficiaries? Will they work? Will they save money? Will they improve the quality of care? 
 If Congress wanted just to add drug benefits to Medicare, it could do so by adding a few words to Section 1832 of the Social Security Act, which defines the "scope of benefits."
But Congress is beginning a much more fundamental debate about the future of Medicare and the role of government, an issue that defines the philosophical differences between Republicans and Democrats. 
President Bush, most Republicans in Congress and some Democrats are determined that Medicare must not pay for prescription drugs the way it pays doctors, hospitals and other health care providers: with a rigid, complex statutory formula that often bears little relation to the realities of local health care markets.
Mr. Bush plans to speak to doctors in Illinois on Wednesday and visit a center for the elderly in Connecticut on Thursday, just as the Senate Finance Committee is scheduled to vote on legislation adding drug benefits to Medicare. The full Senate and House are expected to vote on the legislation later this month.
Republicans maintain, in the words of Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House, that Medicare is obsolete and antiquated, because it does not cover drugs and because it relies on "a command-and-control structure to control costs." 
Testifying last week before a Senate committee, Mr. Gingrich said, "We are at the dawn of an explosion of knowledge that will change everything we know about science and the human body." Breakthroughs in biology and technology in the next 20 years, he said, will equal all those of the 20th century, and the best way to exploit the discoveries is to transform Medicare from a government monopoly into a marketplace of competing insurance plans, so the elderly will have more options.
"Choice creates competition, and competition drives down price," Mr. Gingrich said, in a pithy statement of the philosophy that inspires most of the Republican proposals.
Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, said the goal was to revamp Medicare so the elderly "can choose the type of coverage that best meets their individual needs."
Liberal Democrats say Republicans are trying to privatize the program. "This is an effort by those who never supported Medicare in the first place to unravel the one piece of universal health insurance we have in this country," said Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan.
But the political dynamic may be different this year. Some Democrats, including Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, have made clear that they will work with Republicans to pass legislation, even while fighting over the details.
The future of Medicare is sure to be an issue in next year's elections. Mr. Bush and the Republican-controlled Congress have agreed to spend $400 billion on drug coverage and other Medicare changes in the next decade. With big budget deficits looming, lawmakers say, it will be more difficult to expand Medicare in future years than it is today.
Hundreds of medicines are in the pipeline for diseases affecting older Americans. The number of Americans 65 and older is expected to double in less than three decades, reaching 70 million in 2030.
The Medicare bills being drafted in the Senate and the House envision two huge but distinct roles for the private sector. Insurance companies would establish government-subsidized "prescription drug plans," to cover drug costs of the elderly and nothing else. The insurers could hire pharmacy benefit managers like Express Scripts and AdvancePCS to review and pay claims.
In addition, the Senate and House bills would encourage Medicare patients to get all their health care, including prescription drugs, from private plans known as preferred provider organizations. 
These plans, hybrids of managed care and fee-for-service medicine, steer patients to certain providers. Patients can use other doctors and hospitals, but must pay more, sometimes much more, when they do so.
No one knows how many people will enroll in the private plans. Whether these plans will save money for Medicare is a hotly contested issue. The White House says they will. But many economists, including some at the Congressional Budget Office, say they could increase Medicare costs.
The private plans negotiate fees with doctors and hospitals. These fees are often higher than what the government pays under Medicare fee schedules. The government can set rates by fiat, by statute and by regulation. Health care providers see these rates as inadequate but usually accept them because Medicare's fee-for-service program still accounts for a large share of their business.
Preferred provider plans would offer benefits not available through traditional Medicare, including extra preventive services and protection against catastrophic medical costs.
The Senate Democratic leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, said Democrats did not intend to wage a filibuster on Medicare legislation. But Democrats do intend to offer amendments to cure what they see as flaws in the Republican plan.
A document prepared by Senate Democrats, outlining their strategy, describes the flaws this way:
*"No defined benefit or premium. Insurance companies decide."
*"Inadequate investment of $400 billion will require high premiums and deductibles."
*"Large coverage gap."
Under the Republican proposals, private insurers signing contracts with Medicare could charge different premiums and offer different drug benefits, so long as they met federal standards. 
In addition, the proposals would leave a big gap for some people. Under the Senate bill, for example, Medicare would share drug costs up to $3,450 a year, but would not provide further coverage until a beneficiary's annual drug costs reached about $5,300.
Robert D. Reischauer, former director of the Congressional Budget Office, said such a gap "defies rational policy analysis" and is not found in commercial insurance. But lawmakers said closing the gap could increase the cost of the package by $200 billion over 10 years.
Under the Republican proposals, the government would offer subsidies and other financial incentives for insurance companies to enter the Medicare market. Even the staunchest advocates of private health plans say they cannot be sure how companies will respond.
The history of Medicare is full of efforts to expand the role of the private sector. 
Congress has authorized the creation of medical savings accounts, increased payments to health maintenance organizations and encouraged doctors and hospitals to form health plans, known as provider-sponsored organizations.
The results of these experiments have often disappointed their supporters, who blame heavy-handed government regulation.
But Democrats say health insurance for the elderly, especially drug coverage, is one of those public goods that can be supplied more efficiently and reliably by the government than by the market.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Newt Gingrich has called Medicare an obsolete government monopoly. (Associated Press)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); AGING (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (77%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); AGED; PRIVATIZATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; DOCTORS; HOSPITALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TED KENNEDY (58%); DEBBIE STABENOW (58%) PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); GINGRICH, NEWT 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) ; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



241 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
McCarthy Shop Gets Subway Assignment

BYLINE:  By Bill Carter and Jim Rutenberg 

 BODY:
One of the agencies participating in a review for parts of the account of Subway Restaurants has been given an assignment to create a corporate image commercial for Subway.
 Chris Carroll, marketing director at Subway in Milford, Conn., confirmed a report in Adweek.com that McCarthy Mambro Bertino in Boston had been named to create the spot, but said that the decision was made before the review began and did not indicate anything about the agency's standing in the review. 
 Subway last month began a review for the creative and strategic planning portions of its account, which have been handled by Euro RSCG MVBMS Partners in New York since March 2000. Subway spent $218.6 million in major media last year, according to TNS Media Intelligence/CMR, part of Taylor Nelson Sofres.
Other agencies participating include Deutsch in New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies; Euro RSCG MVBMS Partners, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide division of Havas; Fallon Worldwide in Minneapolis, part of the Publicis Groupe; Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group; Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore.; and three others that were not disclosed.
Joanne Davis Consulting in New York is helping in the review, which is being overseen by the Subway Franchisee Advertising Fund Trust.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); FRANCHISEES (73%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (70%) RESTAURANTS; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (84%); HAVAS SA (58%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (56%); FALLON WORLDWIDE (56%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SUBWAY RESTAURANTS; MCCARTHY MAMBRO BERTINO 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (91%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (84%); HAV (PAR) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); OREGON, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); MINNESOTA, USA (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



242 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: For the Muslim Prom Queen, There Are No Kings Allowed 

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN 

DATELINE: FREMONT, Calif., June 7 

 BODY:
The trappings of a typical high school prom were all there: the strobe lights, the garlands, the crepe pineapple centerpieces and even a tiara for the queen. In fact, Fatima Haque's prom tonight had practically everything one might expect on one of a teenage girl's most important nights. Except boys. 
 Ms. Haque and her friends may have helped initiate a new American ritual: the all-girl Muslim prom. It is a spirited response to religious and cultural beliefs that forbid dating, dancing with or touching boys or appearing without a hijab, the Islamic head scarf. While Ms. Haque and her Muslim friends do most things other teenagers do -- shopping for shoes at Macy's, watching "The Matrix Reloaded" at the mall or ordering Jumbo Jack burgers and curly fries at Jack in the Box -- an essential ingredient of the American prom, boys, is off limits. So they decided to do something about it. 
 "A lot of Muslim girls don't go to prom," said Ms. Haque, 18, who removed her hijab and shawl at the prom to reveal an ethereal silvery gown. "So while the other girls are getting ready for their prom, the Muslim girls are getting ready for our prom, so we won't feel left out." 
The rented room at a community center here was filled with the sounds of the rapper 50 Cent, Arabic pop music, Britney Spears and about two dozen girls, including some non-Muslim friends. But when the sun went down, the music stopped temporarily, the silken gowns disappeared beneath full-length robes, and the Muslims in the room faced toward Mecca to pray. Then it was time for spaghetti and lasagna.
It is perhaps a new version of having it all: embracing the American prom culture of high heels, mascara and adrenaline while being true to a Muslim identity. 
"These young women are being very creative, finding a way to continue being Muslim in the American context," said Jane I. Smith, a professor of Islamic studies at the Hartford Seminary in Connecticut. "Before, young Muslims may have stuck with the traditions of their parents or rejected them totally to become completely Americanized. Now, they're blending them."
Non-Muslim students at San Jose High Academy, where Ms. Haque is president of the student body, went to the school's coed prom last month -- renting cars or limousines, dining at the Sheraton, going to breakfast at Denny's and, for some, drinking. Ms. Haque, meanwhile, was on her turquoise cellphone with the smiley faces organizing the prom. She posted an announcement on Bay Area Muslim Youth, a Yahoo news group scanned by young people throughout the San Francisco Bay area, home to one of the country's largest and most active Muslim communities. 
"We got so close, we wanted to hang," said Fatin Alhadi, 17, a friend, explaining the farewell-to-high-school celebration, which involved cooking, shopping and decorating the room, rented with a loan from Ms. Haque's parents. "It's an excuse to dress and put makeup on. Everyone has so much fun at the prom."
The sense of anticipation was palpable at Ms. Haque's house this afternoon, including an occasional "Relax, mom!" For Ms. Haque and her friends, the Muslim prom -- like any prom -- meant getting your eyebrows shaped at the last minute and ransacking mother's jewelry box. It was a time to forget about the clock, to look in the mirror and see a glamorous woman instead of a teenager. To be radiant. 
Ms. Haque and her Muslim girlfriends dwell in a world of exquisite subtlety in which modesty is the underlying principle. Though she wears a hijab, Ms. Alhadi recently dyed her black hair auburn. "Everyone asks me why, because nobody sees it," she said. "But I like to look at myself."
Ms. Haque, who will attend the University of California at Berkeley in the fall, is one of a growing number of young Muslim women who have adopted the covering their mothers rejected. Islamic dress, worn after puberty, often accompanies a commitment not to date or to engage in activities where genders intermingle.
Her parents immigrated from Pakistan, and her mother, Shazia, who has a master's degree in economics, does not wear the hijab.
Ms. Haque's decision to cover herself, which she made in her freshman year, was nuanced and thoughtful. 
"I noticed a big difference in the way guys talked," she said. "They were afraid. I guess they had more respect. You walked down the street and you didn't feel guys staring at you. You felt a lot more confident." Her parents were surprised but said it was her decision.
Ms. Haque faced some taunting after the terror attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. "They call you terrorist, or raghead because high school students are immature," she said. 
But she and her friends say Muslim boys, who are not distinguished by their dress, may have a tougher time in American society. 
"The scarf draws the line," said Ms. Alhadi, the daughter of a Singaporean mother and Indonesian father. "It's already a shield. Without it everything comes to you and you have to fight it yourself."
Ms. Haque is enrolled in the academically elite International Baccalaureate program at San Jose High Academy, a public school where, as her friend Morgan Parker, 17, put it, "the jocks are the nerds." 
But the social pressures on Muslims, especially in less-cloistered settings, can be intense. 
"I felt left out, big time," said Saira Lara, 17, a senior at Gunn High School in Palo Alto, of her school's prom. But she gets a vicarious taste of dating by talking with her non-Muslim friends. 
"The drama that goes on!" Ms. Lara said, looking dazzling at the Muslim prom in a flowing maroon gown. "The Valentine's Day without a phone call or a box of chocolates!" 
Imran Khan, 17, a senior at Los Altos High School, admitted that his school's prom was not easy. 
"When I told my friends I wasn't going, they all said, 'Are you crazy?' " he said in a telephone interview. "Prom is a you-have-to-go kind of thing. Obviously if all your friends are going and you're not, you're going to feel something. That day I was, 'Oh man, my friends are having fun and I'm not.' But I don't regret not going."
Most of Mr. Khan's school friends are not Muslim, and his Muslim friends are scattered across the Bay area. 
"A lot of times it's difficult," he said. "We guys blend in so you can't tell we're Muslim. We're not supposed to touch the opposite gender. My friends who are girls understand, but when other girls want to hug you or shake your hand, it's hard. I don't want them to think I'm a jerk or something." 
Adeel Iqbal, 18, a senior at Bellarmine College Preparatory, a boys' Catholic school in San Jose, went stag to his coed senior prom. Mr. Iqbal decided to go in his official capacity as student body president as well as a representative of his Muslim beliefs. 
"Every day we're bombarded with images of sex and partying and getting drunk, in music and on TV, so of course there's a curiosity," he said. "When you see your own peers engaging in these activities, it's kind of weird. It takes a lot of strength to not participate. But that's how I've been raised. When your peers see you're different in a positive way, they respect it." 
Nearly all parents of adolescents worry about the pressures of sex, drugs and alcohol, but the anxiety is especially acute in Muslim families who strictly adhere to traditional Islamic dress and gender separation. Many Muslim parents disapprove of what they see as an excessively secularized and liberalized American culture, and are deeply concerned that young Muslims, especially girls, not be put in compromising situations. 
Ms. Haque's father, Faisal, a design engineer at Cisco Systems, said that the pressure to conform was "very significant." It is the subject of frequent family discussions.
"It's difficult at best," Mr. Haque said. "It takes a lot of self-control. I have a lot of respect for these kids." 
The Haques supported their daughter's decision to organize the Muslim prom. "You have to live in this country," Mr. Haque said. "In order to function, the children have to adapt. Prom is a rite of passage. You don't want them to feel like they don't belong." 
Ms. Haque would like the Muslim prom to become an annual event. "My goal is an elegant ballroom with a three-course dinner -- no paper plates -- women waiters and a hundred girls," she said.
Tonight, the prom room was filled with promise as the young women whirled around the dance floor, strobe lights blinking. "Show off whatever you've got!" Ms. Lara exhorted the throng, sounding like a D.J. "Come on, guys. This is the most magical night of your life!"

CORRECTION-DATE: June 10, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page picture caption in some copies yesterday with an article about a prom for Muslim girls in Fremont, Calif., misspelled the given name of a student admiring a prom dress, and a caption with the continuation of the article misspelled the given name of another, shown primping at a mirror. The girl admiring the dress was Anum Asghar, not Anun. The one at the mirror was Sarah Ismail, not Sara.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fatima Haque, an organizer of the dance Saturday in Fremont, Calif. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A1); The Ismail sisters strung lights, left, on Saturday at a rented community center in Fremont, where the windows were covered to ensure the girls' privacy. As Muslim girls from around the San Francisco Bay area arrived Saturday night, right, they removed their head scarves and robes.; Primping for a prom without boys, Sara Ismail, left, and her sister Nora on Saturday before the event in Fremont, Calif., near San Francisco. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (76%); HIP HOP CULTURE (75%); WOMEN (75%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (72%); RAP MUSIC (69%); POP & ROCK (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ISLAM; WOMEN; PARTIES (SOCIAL); MUSLIM-AMERICANS 

COMPANY: JACK IN THE BOX INC (56%)

TICKER: JACK (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%)

PERSON: 50 CENT (78%); BRITNEY SPEARS (50%) BROWN, PATRICIA LEIGH; HAQUE, FATIMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (96%) SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA (CALIF) 

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



243 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
Incentive marketing spreads on the Internet, with offers of discounts or credit toward gifts.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
THESE days, shoppers tend not to be satisfied with merely getting goods or services for their cash. Many want further positive reinforcement, in the form of airline miles, coupons and the like.
 Yet, while nearly three-quarters of the nation's households belong to rewards programs of some kind, according to the consulting firm Forrester Research, most of them do so only offline, because such offerings have been slow to emerge on the Web. That is now changing, though, as some of the Internet's biggest companies -- including eBay, LendingTree, USA Interactive and the music-sharing system KaZaA -- are turning their attention to loyalty programs. 
 "With the land grab for online customers winding down, it's time for Internet retailers to shift their efforts to customer retention," said Carrie A. Johnson, an analyst with Forrester Research. "Rewards programs are one way to do that." 
Some online executives have designed awards programs meant both to retain existing customers while attracting new ones. Late last month, for example, eBay, the online auction giant, rolled out the eBay Anything Points Program, in which users who respond to marketing offers earn points that can be redeemed for eBay merchandise.
Among the lures, eBay users who sign up for Sprint long-distance service can earn 6,000 points, which can be redeemed for $60 worth of goods on eBay. Users can also exchange points from American Airlines, Hilton Hotels and others for PayPal currency, which is eBay's scrip.
Don Albert, eBay's senior director of strategic partnerships, says the program gives eBay users more reason to spend time and money at the site, while also giving the company a new marketing vehicle for advertisers. Moreover, the initiative will help expose eBay to new users, since companies like Hilton and American will publicize the offer to their customers.
Mr. Albert would not disclose the financial terms of the agreements, other than to say that Sprint, for instance, will reimburse eBay one penny for each point it gives users on Sprint's behalf. 
"There will definitely be cases where more cash will change hands," he said, "but it comes down to negotiations about the marketing value each company is bringing to the program."
EBay could also expand the program to reward users who buy or sell certain amounts of merchandise, Mr. Albert said. 
"It's potentially a great merchandising tool that eBay or eBay sellers could use," he said.
One of eBay's few online peers in terms of revenue, USA Interactive, is working on a much more ambitious loyalty program. The company, which owns or controls Expedia, Hotels.com, Ticketmaster and others, is designing a rewards program that would involve all the company's units, according to Dara Khosrowshahi, USA's chief financial officer.
Mr. Khosrowshahi said the effort might involve "a hybrid points/discount program," including both the online division and one of USA's newest acquisitions, Entertainment Publications, which publishes coupon booklets for restaurant and entertainment businesses.
Customers of USA Interactive's properties could conceivably redeem points for services offered by some of the 70,000 merchants doing business with Entertainment Publications, or simply redeem them for services at other USA online properties, Mr. Khosrowshahi said.
"Or they could exchange their points on Points.com for airline miles," he said, referring to the Web site on which users can exchange one company's reward points for those of another. "No other company in the interactive landscape can offer the breadth and depth of this program, which is why we're going after it."
Ms. Johnson, the Forrester analyst, said that USA's program seemed to make more sense than some others in the retail category. "USA needs to create an awareness that their properties are linked," she said. "So instead of advertising their new brand, they can use this to acquire and retain customers."
Over all, rewards are an effective retailing tool, according to Forrester, which found that more than 50 percent of shoppers surveyed last fall said such programs influenced their decision to shop at one store and ignore a competitor.
Still, Ms. Johnson said, rewards programs can be potentially destructive, "because consumers get hooked on gathering points and discounts, and that's not always the customer that retailers want." 
Ideally, Ms. Johnson said, companies would more frequently use rewards to entice shoppers to change their typical behavior -- say, to sign up for certain e-mail promotions, or try out new products.
KaZaA's program is aimed squarely at behavioral change. Last week KaZaA, a company with headquarters in Australia that is the target of a lawsuit claiming that it encourages piracy of music and movie videos, began rewarding users who share licensed files that KaZaA legitimately obtains from the copyright holders.
Under the program, called Peer Points, KaZaA users who distribute a licensed music file, for instance, will typically earn 500 points. Users who attain certain point levels are then eligible for prizes and sweepstakes entries, among other benefits.
Of the more than three billion files that some industry executives estimate are downloaded on KaZaA each month, only about 20 million are licensed files, according to Michael Liubinskas, head of marketing for KaZaA's parent company, Sharman Networks. "We've been working hard over the last 18 months to legitimize a licensed peer-to-peer business model," Mr. Liubinskas said. "This is quite an important next step for us."
The program could be doomed if KaZaA does not seed the market with a better selection of licensed files. The licensed files now exchanged on KaZaA are typically those of fairly obscure artists, because major record labels have been less than enthusiastic about distributing their licensed music through a company they regard as an archenemy.
KaZaA's technology partner in its Peer Points initiative is trying to help.
The company relies on Altnet, a subsidiary of Los Angeles-based Brilliant Digital Entertainment, to provide sponsored links from advertisers at the top of the KaZaA search results. Those links are frequently from artists with whom it has struck distribution agreements. For instance, a KaZaA search for the performer Ice-T will return a list that is topped by a link for licensed Ice-T songs that users can either take for free or pay for -- and earn rewards for, should they download that file and subsequently share it with others who pay for it.
But more typically, searches for well-known artists turn up nothing that users can legitimately download. Brilliant Digital's chief executive, Kevin Bermeister, said that getting major music labels to distribute their licensed music content through his company -- and, by extension, KaZaA -- had been difficult. "They're obviously leery," he said.
Mr. Bermeister said that the record labels' reliance on punitive measures for those who pirate software "is all well and good, but if there's no alternative, their objectives can't be realized in optimal time."
LendingTree, which matches lenders and real estate agents with prospective customers, has so far avoided the points-gathering approach in its loyalty program, LendingTree Privileges. Visitors to its site who register for the program are offered discounts from companies like Dell Computer, Lowe's and General Electric.
Since July, LendingTree has signed up about 2 million program members, according to Thomas J. Reddin, LendingTree's president. He said the initiative was not expensive to set up and would be "break-even or better in the short term, and very profitable in the long term, if it creates the high levels of repeat business we expect."
On that score, LendingTree may already be reaping benefits. Last year about 15 percent of the company's clients were repeat customers. This year, that number is above 20 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Don Albert, senior director of strategic partnerships at eBay in San Jose, Calif., helped develop the Anything Points Program. The program allows users to earn points, even from other companies like Sprint and Hilton, that can be used to buy things on eBay. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (90%); CUSTOMER RETENTION STRATEGY (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LOYALTY MARKETING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (75%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); HOTEL CHAINS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); HILTON WORLDWIDE (54%); PAYPAL INC (54%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (50%); HOTELS.COM LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EBAY INC; KAZAA (CO); LENDINGTREE INC; USA INTERACTIVE 

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%); FORR (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (54%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (50%) SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES; 

PERSON: DARA KHOSROWSHAHI (50%) TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2003 



244 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, 2 Sides to Weak Dollar 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, June 9 

 BODY:
With the dollar looking so anemic, a lot of European companies, particularly those that depend on exports beyond the euro zone, have been moaning lately. But some, notably in retailing, have been groaning all the way to the bank.
 The exporters moan because the products they manufacture in Europe, where they pay for labor and materials in euros, are sold in places like the United States and are paid for with dollars. As the dollar falls, so do their revenues relative to their costs, and these companies must compress their profit margins to keep their products from being priced out of the market. 
 But for European retailers, the exporter's curse becomes a blessing. Many leading companies, like Puma in sporting goods and Hennes & Mauritz in apparel, have their goods made in Asia or Latin America and pay for them in dollars, and then sell them mostly in Europe for euros. Every penny the euro rises against the dollar means a penny in the bank for these retailers when they translate the figures into euros.
"Over all, it is extremely positive," said Anne Putz, a spokeswoman for Adidas-Salomon of Germany, the No. 2 sports shoe retailer, after Nike. Adidas manufactures 95 percent of its shoes in Asia and pays for them in dollars; the materials for other goods that it makes elsewhere, like apparel and sporting equipment, come from Asia, too, Ms. Putz said.
Adidas has, understandably, been preening. In the first quarter, net income rose 19 percent, to $51 million; its gross margin was 42.5 percent. Herbert Hainer, the chief executive, told analysts in a conference call in April that the European market, where Adidas generates almost half its revenue, was the "star of the quarter." Adidas executives say they expect the second half of the year will be even better.
In France, the chief executive of Pinault-Printemps-Redoute, Serge Weinberg, said the weak dollar had largely been a help to the company, one of France's largest retailers. The Gucci luxury goods group, majority-owned by Pinault, has been squeezed in the United States, where it sells European-made products for dollars, but Pinault's European retailing operations, like the big French department store chain Printemps, are major importers of Asian products like textiles bought in dollars.
"For a product X that cost them $100 a few months ago, it's costing them $82 now," said Lee Shafkowitz, a retailing consultant and president of Aeros, a New York company that trades in luxury goods. "They've got an 18 percent jump in the gross margin right there. They're making a killing."
Of course, the more sales these European retailers get outside the 12 nations that share the euro currency, and especially the more they sell in the United States, the more they forfeit the benefits of a weak dollar. One victim of this reverse calculation has been Richemont, the Swiss company that ranks second worldwide in luxury goods sales, behind LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton of France. Richemont, best known for Cartier and Piaget jewelry and watches and Montblanc pens, recently reported a sharp fall in operating income in the fiscal year ended March 31, though its sales had fallen only 5 percent. Shifting exchange rates were a major part of the reason: Richemont, based in Geneva, pays its bills mainly in Swiss francs and euros, but more than half its revenue comes from the United States and Asia.
Yet even European retailers with sizable exposure in the United States have learned to defend themselves. For example, Adidas, which generates about one-third of its revenue in North America, has followed the path of many European companies that use financial hedges to immunize themselves from currency fluctuations. Indeed, Adidas's chief financial officer, Robin J. Stalker, told analysts recently that the company's bets on a weak dollar in the currency markets were a major help to Adidas.
"The biggest potential for us in the whole currency issue is the upside that we have through our hedging contracts," he said. The benefits, he added, would come "definitely in the last couple of quarters of this year."
So why the voices of gloom from Europe, where pressure has been strong for a strengthened dollar?
"The companies that suffer from a weak dollar are those that speak more loudly in public than those that profit from it," said Carsten Fritsch, a currency strategist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt. Mr. Fritsch said the weak dollar had not only benefited European retailers that buy goods in Asia, but also helped keep retail prices down generally in Europe, leaving room for lower interest rates and higher consumption.
Mr. Fritsch, echoing other economists, said the weak dollar could also prompt European companies to improve their efficiency and productivity over the medium to long term to offset the disadvantages of having costs denominated in euros. "Of course, when the adjustment comes so quickly," he said, "it generates friction."
For some European companies, the friction has already turned to high heat. In Italy, for instance, clusters of manufacturers that make goods like shoes, terra-cotta tiles or eyeglass frames and whose low prices and styling have made them market leaders are wincing over mounting imports from East Asian countries like China.
From January to April, Europe's imports from China swelled by almost 50 percent, to 16.3 billion euros, as everything from shoes to textiles to auto parts, suddenly made cheaper by the dollar's drop, flooded Europe. The German financial daily Handelsblatt wrote recently of "fear of a trade war between Brussels and Beijing."
Gustav-Adolf Horn, an economist at the German Institute for Economic Research in Berlin, said that despite the benefits for retailers, the liabilities of a weak dollar far outweighed the overall benefits for Europe. "What we do is draw a balance," he said. "And over all, the balance is definitely negative."
He acknowledged that the benefits of a robust retail sector seeped through the rest of the economy in the form of lower prices and interest rates. "To some extent, that will be passed on, though not fast enough," he said. 
Europe, Mr. Horn said, could absorb a drop in the dollar's value of up to 10 percent without suffering seriously. "Beyond that," he said, "it begins to affect gross domestic product and growth."
In the meantime though, European retailers are enjoying the ride.
In France, Aigle, a retailer specializing in sportswear and boots, posted revenue last year of 128 million euros, 85 percent of it from the euro zone. Aigle still makes its boots in France, but nearly everything else it sells is made in Asia. Not surprisingly, Aigle's share price has soared by almost 45 percent since January.
Aigle's finance director, Paul Soreau, was asked in a recent interview with the French daily Liberation just how big the benefits were for Aigle's bottom line.
Mr. Soreau, with evident understatement, replied: "The impact is important."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A weak dollar has translated into gains for retailers like the French store chain Printemps, a major importer of Asian products bought in dollars and sold in euros. Adidas has 95 percent of its footwear made in Asia. (Photographs by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); SHOE STORES (74%); DEPARTMENT STORES (72%); TEXTILES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; APPAREL; SHOES AND BOOTS; CURRENCY; SALES 

COMPANY: ADIDAS AG (95%); FRANCE PRINTEMPS SA (84%); PPR SA (82%); H&M HENNES & MAURITZ AB (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; PUMA AG; HENNES & MAURITZ 

TICKER: ADS (FRA) (95%); PP (PAR) (82%); PP (BIT) (82%); HM.B (STO) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (95%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (82%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (82%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (82%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (82%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (56%)

PERSON: HERBERT HAINER (50%) TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (68%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%) EUROPE; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



245 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW; 
Uncle Joe Smiles Down on a Family of Old Lefties

BYLINE:  By BRUCE WEBER 

 BODY:
As audience members take their seats at the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater at Lincoln Center for Jules Feiffer's uneven but gnawingly thoughtful new play, "A Bad Friend," the face of Stalin looks out over the stage from three separate screens. A sturdy, uncomplicated portrait drawn against a Soviet-red background, the image has a benign, almost paternal quality. It isn't the kind of heroic iconography that a despot like Stalin -- or Saddam Hussein -- generates in his own land for his own inflation. It doesn't provoke awe or fear; nor, as we might expect today, is it a lampoon. 
 Rather it's the kind of mantelpiece image that people rely on for solace and support. As a result it is especially discomforting and disorienting. But it delivers an important signal with subtle power: that we are visiting a time and place whose prevailing values have been almost entirely obscured. 
 That time is 1953, and that place is Brooklyn, more specifically lefty Brooklyn, progressive Brooklyn, the Brooklyn that was a center for Communist idealism. Mr. Feiffer, the cartoonist and playwright, was born in 1929 and was just out of the army in 1953, and he is among what must be a very few people who can recall this milieu. He lived in Brooklyn Heights. His sister was a Communist Party member. 
And though by now writers have grazed the McCarthy-era 50's nearly bare -- one reason the first act of "A Bad Friend" feels warmed over -- the peculiarly personal nature of Mr. Feiffer's play finally makes it both dramatically absorbing and historically valuable. The play's cultural references alone -- Theodore Dreiser, Clifford Odets, Howard Fast, "High Noon," The Daily Worker, "If I Had a Hammer" -- clearly define a sociological cul-de-sac that once thrived but was long ago abandoned and more or less forgotten. 
Mr. Feiffer's perspective is a self-examining one that tempers sentiment with rue. The play, which opened last night, visits the home of Shelly and Naomi Wallach, a middle-aged Jewish couple who are progressives of the true believer stripe, relentless in their opposition to McCarthyism, anti-Semitism and capitalist exploitation of the working class, equally fervent in their support of the Rosenbergs, civil rights -- and Stalin. 
They are good people but blinded by their ideals, especially Naomi, (who Mr. Feiffer has said is based on his sister). Played by the riveting Jan Maxwell, Naomi is a fiercely self-righteous Marxist who refuses to lose an argument, who browbeats her husband (Jonathan Hadary); despairs for her younger brother Morty (Mark Feuerstein), a talented writer who has abandoned the "cause" for Hollywood; and especially worries about the future of her teenage daughter, Rose (Kala Savage), an independent-minded girl who finds her parents' principles so narrow and stifling that she says, as the first act draws heavy-handedly to a close: "We have different enemies. My enemies are you." 
The buildup to this curtain-closer is as clunky and episodic as a television movie. The transitions from scene to scene are as brusque as camera cuts. And as directed by Jerry Zaks, on a mostly bare stage with a raised platform at the center and the skyline of lower Manhattan as seen from the Brooklyn Heights esplanade projected on the rear wall, it's as though the characters are being marched before the audience to get the necessary introductions out of the way.
In addition to the family members we meet a mysterious fellow calling himself Emil (Larry Bryggman), who meets and befriends Rose on the Esplanade. We also meet another fellow, known as Fallon (David Harbour), whose seductively slimy manner with Rose lets us know right away that he's a House Un-American Activities Committee investigator digging for information about her folks.
All of this is depressingly standard stuff, but after intermission the elements coalesce in compelling fashion. This is not so much because what happens to the characters is surprising. To say that Rose, manipulated on all sides, unwittingly causes some serious trouble, will give nothing away. And when the ends are all tied up, there is nothing you couldn't have predicted with a few lessons in how to write a screenplay. 
But when the play resumes after intermission it finally finds its focus, which is on its two female characters, mother and daughter. Emerging from the flat palate of Act I, they become rounded, deep people, women whose choices have consequences that are not only persuasive but moving. This is partly because Mr. Feiffer seems to have saved all his best writing for the second half of the play, and partly because Ms. Maxwell and Ms. Savage, given meatier speeches, deliver such well-nourished performances. 
Ms. Savage, who is making her New York theater debut, has the central role. Rose is a wonderfully written portrait of a precocious young woman, the kind of young person who is both enamored of and perplexed by life and who is perpetually in search of an ear in which to pour her endless speculations. She's someone who can't stop talking, can't stop questioning, can't stop annoying adults with her sometimes naive but always logical questions.
Ms. Savage, who doesn't appear to be much older than her character, isn't exactly adorable. But she has the pert prettiness and pug stubbornness that win the audience's sympathy, either because of or in spite of Rose's inability to have an unexpressed thought. 
Ms. Maxwell has less to work with but nonetheless makes a most vivid ideologue. She makes Naomi so irresistibly committed as to be frightening. In her finest scene, after Shelly dares to suggest that Stalin may not be the saint they've believed him to be, she bullies him with her passion, literally shaking with it and threatening to disintegrate unless he takes back his well thought out opinion. It is Naomi who turns out to be both Rose's nemesis and the source of her greatest despair. 
Mr. Feiffer has said that he didn't feel comfortable inserting himself directly into his own stage work. But in the mother-daughter conflict he's created here, he has made "A Bad Friend" into a memory play. Stalin may inevitably conjure up thoughts of Saddam Hussein, and McCarthyites might spur comparisons to the Ashcroft Justice Department, but the value of "A Bad Friend" has nothing to do with its contemporary relevance. In the end the play resonates with painful nostalgia and honestly appraised personal history. 

A BAD FRIEND

By Jules Feiffer; directed by Jerry Zaks; sets by Douglas Stein; costumes by William Ivey Long; lighting by Paul Gallo; projections, Jan Hartley; sound by Aural Fixation; stage manager, Thom Widmann; general manager, Adam Siegel; production manager, Jeff Hamlin. Presented by Lincoln Center Theater, under the direction of Andre Bishop, artistic director; Bernard Gersten, executive director. At the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center.

WITH: Mark Feuerstein (Uncle Morty), Kala Savage (Rose), Larry Bryggman (Emil), Jan Maxwell (Naomi), Jonathan Hadary (Shelly) and David Harbour (Fallon).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jonathan Hadary and Jan Maxwell in Jules Feiffer's new play, "A Bad Friend," which takes place in the Brooklyn of the 1950's. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E8); Kala Savage and Larry Bryggman in Jules Feiffer's "A Bad Friend." (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); POLITICS (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (65%); SOCIOLOGY (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%) THEATER; REVIEWS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%) WEBER, BRUCE; FEIFFER, JULES; ZAKS, JERRY; MAXWELL, JAN; SAVAGE, KALA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: BAD FRIEND, A (PLAY)#000T031209SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



246 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
MEMO PAD

BYLINE:  By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
Occupancy Highest At Luxury Hotels
 Given the cutbacks in travel spending, which hotel segment had the best occupancy rate in April? The answer is the upper-upscale segment, according to Smith Travel Research. The five-star luxury segment had 66.5 percent occupancy in April (down from 71.4 percent in April 2002). That compares with 52.8 percent in the economy segment and 55 percent in the full-service midscale range, the research company said. 
 Discounting was part of the reason the top-level hotels outpaced the industry in occupancy. Their average daily rates dropped 3.8 percent, the most of any segment, according to Smith data. So did their average revenue per available room, off 10.4 percent.

Concorde Won't Vanish In Its Retirement
The fabled Concorde supersonic planes, ceremoniously retired by Air France last week and scheduled to be mothballed by British Airways in October, have been known affectionately among aerospace engineers as technological museum pieces. In the case of Air France's five Concordes, that is now literally true.
Air France said it was donating four of the airplanes to the Air and Space Museum in Le Bourget, France; the National Air and Space Museum of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington; a technology museum in Germany and the Airbus air museum under construction in Toulouse, France. The fifth will be on display at Charles de Gaulle Airport near Paris.
British Air hasn't yet said where its seven Concorde aircraft will end up. Richard Branson, the chairman of Virgin Atlantic Airways, has said he would like to keep the Concorde flying under the Virgin flag, but no firm plans have been advanced.

Air Travel Miscellany
The Transportation Security Administration, which laid off 3,000 of its more than 55,000 airport screeners this spring and plans to lay off another 3,000 by Sept. 30, said that average passenger wait times in April and May remained "well below the goal of 10 minutes" at the nation's airports, despite the cutbacks.
Annual passenger capacity at Munich Airport in Germany will double to 50 million after its new Terminal 2 opens on June 27, said the airport and its partner in the project, Lufthansa. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LODGING (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); AVERAGE DAILY ROOM RATES (78%); REVENUE PER AVAILABLE ROOM (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); AIRCRAFT MFG (74%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (73%); AVIATION SECURITY (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); TERRORISM (59%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; GIFTS; CONCORDE AIRPLANE; DE GAULLE, CHARLES, INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (PARIS); TERRORISM; AIRPORTS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; MUNICH AIRPORT 

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (83%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (56%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (56%); AIRBUS SAS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (82%); US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (55%) SMITH TRAVEL RESEARCH; AIR FRANCE; AIR AND SPACE CENTER (SMITHSONIAN); NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM (WASHINGTON, DC); AIRBUS INDUSTRIE; AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM (LE BOURGET, FRANCE); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC; TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION;LUFTHANSA GERMAN AIRLINES 

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (58%); AF (PAR) (56%); AF (AMS) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (50%) SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%) MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



247 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Latin Lands Don't Share Powell's Priorities 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, June 9 

 BODY:
Meeting with foreign ministers from Latin America and the Caribbean today, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell moved to smooth over differences from the diplomatic wrangle that preceded the war in Iraq, but encountered divergences on issues like trade and human rights.
 At the annual assembly of the Organization of American States here, Mr. Powell was nearly alone in focusing on the triple scourge he described as "tyrants, traffickers and terrorists." For the most part, representatives of the 33 other nations taking part emphasized the need for social justice, warningthat democracy itself could be threatened by mounting economic difficulties and inequality. 
 "Clearly, we live at a time when not only has our economic growth been seriously hampered, but also more and more questions are raised about how our governments should act to overcome such obstacles," the organization's secretary general, Cesar Gaviria, told the delegates. "It has surely been a mistake to have believed that development is determined solely by economic factors."
On Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Powell was attending an O.A.S. conference in Lima, Peru, on strengthening democratic values. Since then, however, the nations of Latin American and the Caribbean have complained consistently that as far as the Bush administration is concerned, they have "fallen off the map," in the words of an official from one South American nation, except in connection with the war against terrorism.
Both Chile and Mexico are currently members of the United Nations Security Council, and as such were the objects of intense American lobbying during the diplomatic maneuvering before the war in Iraq. But in a region that has experienced numerous American interventions over the past century, there was little popular support for the United States position, and neither country ended up voting as Washington wanted.
Mr. Powell also met little enthusiasm for his strong condemnation of recent human rights abuses in Cuba. He challenged the foreign ministers to work with the United States to "hasten the inevitable democratic transition in Cuba." He also reminded them that the Inter-American Democratic Charter, which the group approved in 2001, "declares that the peoples of the Americas have a right to democracy," adding, "It does not say the peoples of the Americas except Cubans have the right to democracy."
Canada's foreign affairs minister, Bill Graham, said that " many of my colleagues do not believe that this O.A.S. of ours is the appropriate forum to discuss this" because Cuba does not have a chance to defend itself and is seen as a victim of the longstanding American embargo.
The conference here began Sunday, two days after the United States and Chile signed a free-trade agreement in Miami that was a result of nearly a decade of on-again, off-again talks. Many Chileans have expressed concern that their government's opposition to the Iraq war could hamper approval of the accord by the United States Congress, but Mr. Powell, who met with Chile's president, Ricardo Lagos, and other senior officials today, made a point of arguing otherwise.
"We were disappointed in the Chilean position," he told reporters traveling on the plane with him from Washington, but "we're anxious to talk about the future and not the past." For that reason, he said, "I don't see any lasting consequences" to the deep-rooted opposition all over Latin America to the invasion of Iraq.
In his remarks this morning, Mr. Powell acknowledged that "an unfettered market alone does not guarantee sustained development." But he also urged the organization's members to support the United States' plan for a Free Trade Agreement of the Americas by 2005, saying it would lead to "a partnership of strong, equal and prosperous countries living and trading in freedom."
But there has been both resistance to the American proposal and skepticism that the separate pact with Chile, which is widely seen as less generous than an agreement with the European Union that went into effect on Jan. 1, can serve as a template for a regional agreement.
Mr. Powell described the accord with Chile as "an important way station" on the path to hemispheric free trade, but opposition is strong, especially in Brazil, which is the co-chairman of the trade talks and feels that Washington is demanding a lot and offering relatively little.
"They're not going to eliminate agricultural subsidies, and the reason is very simple," the Brazilian president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, said in a speech last week, referring to Washington's position on the export sector in which Latin America is most competitive. "Bush is seeking re-election in 2004."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, right, with President Ricardo Lagos of Chile yesterday at the government palace in Santiago, the capital. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TRENDS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHILE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); CUBA (94%); IRAQ (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); PERU (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) LATIN AMERICA; SANTIAGO (CHILE)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



248 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Second Zimbabwe Opposition Figure Is Charged With Inciting Protests to Oust President 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: HARARE, Zimbabwe, June 9 

 BODY:
The police arrested a second senior Zimbabwe opposition figure today as the party's leader appeared in court after a weekend in jail to face charges of plotting to overthrow President Robert Mugabe.
 A police spokesman, Andrew Phiri, said the secretary general of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change, Welshman Ncube, had been arrested on treason charges on suspicion of inciting five days of protests against Mr. Mugabe last week. 
 Mr. Ncube, who had spent the weekend in hiding after the arrest on Friday of the movement's leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, went to court today and turned himself in.
"I denied the charges," he told reporters at the court, before leaving for more police questioning.
Mr. Ncube was arrested as Mr. Tsvangirai appeared at the same Harare courthouse to face his own set of treason charges stemming from the protests last week, which the government describes as an effort to foment a coup.
Mr. Tsvangirai, a former trade union leader who has mounted the strongest challenge Mr. Mugabe has seen in his 23 years in power, looked exhausted after a weekend in jail but managed a wan smile for supporters packing the courtroom.
Mr. Tsvangirai and Mr. Ncube are already being tried for treason, accused of plotting to kill Mr. Mugabe, who was re-elected last year in voting the Movement for Democratic Change and several Western governments described as fraudulent.
Last week, the party staged a string of demonstrations in a "final push" against Mr. Mugabe, but the protest drive was crushed by riot police using tear gas and water cannons in a brutal drive that the opposition said resulted in hundreds of arrests.
Mr. Tsvangirai's lawyers said they would not immediately challenge the government's effort to bring a second treason case against their client but were trying to get him freed on bail.
Mr. Tsvangirai, back in police custody after the hearing today, was expected to return to the High Court on Tuesday for a hearing on his bail application. 
His trial on the existing treason charge was postponed until Wednesday. Mr. Phiri, the police spokesman, said that Mr. Ncube was being questioned and that he would probably return to court on Tuesday.
The legal attacks on the party's leaders follow vows by Mr. Mugabe over the weekend that he would not buckle in the face of the opposition's challenge, which he said was being organized by his enemies in London and Washington.
Britain and the United States have taken a leading role in condemning Mr. Mugabe's government, and particularly its policy of seizing white-owned farms for distribution to landless blacks. The farm crisis, which has left fallow some of the country's most fertile land, has helped push Zimbabwe's economy to the brink of collapse with food and fuel shortages, soaring inflation, and desperately high unemployment.
In another sign of how close to economic collapse the country has come, the International Monetary Fund suspended Zimbabwe's voting rights on Friday and banned it from representation within the fund because of its economic policies and outstanding debts to the fund. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (92%); TREASON (91%); COUPS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); RIOTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (83%); POLITICS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BAIL (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); LAWYERS (74%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); LABOR UNIONS (53%) DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; TREASON; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS 

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (90%) NCUBE, WELSHMAN; TSVANGIRAI, MORGAN; MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); HARARE, ZIMBABWE (73%) ZIMBABWE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) ZIMBABWE

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



249 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: TUNNEL VISION; 
For Sale: Short Stories for the Long Ride Home

BYLINE:  By Randy Kennedy 

 BODY:
Ever since the day it opened, and for obvious reasons, the subway has been as much a supermarket as a means of transportation.
 Daily, it delivers a group of prospective consumers numbering in the millions. August Belmont, the system's chief financier, sensed the potential and tried to tap into it by plastering the early subway with hundreds of tin-framed advertisements for everything from rye whiskey to washing powder. 
 Over the years, there have been cigar stands, flower stands, newspaper stands, chewing gum machines, a record store and an army of hard-working immigrants who wander the trains selling AA batteries, toy cellphones, lighted yo-yos and plastic sticks that make funny sounds when you wiggle them. Once, this reporter spotted a well-used one-piece bathing suit for sale at the Second Avenue stop on the F line. 
So it is in the grand tradition that a small, friendly 27-year-old woman named Adrian Brune set up shop about two months ago to sell her wares at Times Square. Her "shop" is a very common one for subway commerce, consisting of a small cardboard box, behind which she sits with her back against the wall. But what differentiates Ms. Brune from her competitors are her unique handmade products, advertised in a hand-lettered sign on the sides of the box.
"Writer w/ good short stories for sale: $2 each," it says, adding in parentheses, "Masters from Columbia; bad economy."
In other words, Ms. Brune is a player in what the writer Terry Southern once called the "quality lit game," but instead of trying to sell her work through publishers, she has decided to go right to the reading public. This would be a brave decision, if it were one she made herself. In actual fact, she says, it was made for her by the publishers.
"I got to the point where it was either start selling my stuff or try to sell my work," she said last Friday, sitting on the floor of the Grand Central subway station, where she has relocated because the police there seem to appreciate nonfiction prose more than those at Times Square do. ("I've only been kicked out of here three or four times," she said with appreciation.)
Ms. Brune, who was raised in Tulsa and came to New York by way of Chicago and Boston, says that she originally conceived of her subway sales job as a form of "protest slash performance art." After graduating from Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism last year, she tried in vain to find full-time work, but landed only occasional freelance jobs (including a few short articles written for this newspaper). She was angry at New York, she said, and wanted to find a way to let the city to know it.
But then a funny thing happened: she discovered that low-priced, cheaply copied, heartfelt short memoirs held together with paper clips actually sell pretty well in the subway.
In fact, on good days she sells out of them, unloading 20 copies or more of each of her three stories. (One is about the death of her stepmother, with whom she was very close; a second is about online dating and a third is about a whirlwind romance she had with another woman at Columbia. She is at work on a fourth story about another romance.)
Last Friday afternoon, Ms. Brune was doing a very brisk business in the corridor leading to the Times Square shuttle. As a salesperson, she tends to comport herself with ease, something like a country-store clerk selling fertilizer to farmers.
"You like short stories?" she says to the undecided. "Try this one."
"Hey, have a good one now," she says as they walk away.
When a man in a baseball cap walked up, she gave him her friendly sales pitch. "You want action or satire?" she asked.
"Action," he said finally and forked over two bucks for the whirlwind romance.
Ms. Brune folded the bills into her pocket. "Guys like the action story," she said.
In the space of about two hours, she had sold more than a dozen stories, some to satisfied repeat customers like Orlando Fonseca II, who had also bought the whirlwind romance story and gave it a big thumbs up. "It reminded me of some of the stupid things I did," he told Ms. Brune, smiling.
She says that she has never had any customers demand their money back, though one man did return a story, apparently disappointed that she is gay. "I think he was a little sweet on me," she said.
Of course, the subway is not always the most relaxing sales environment. Once, she spent the whole afternoon with a rambling drunk at her side. The same day, she said, "a slam poet -- or whatever he was -- came up and slam-poeted me."
Some people, most often women in business suits, look at her behind her box, well dressed and well fed, and roll their eyes. But others seem to understand. In fact, one woman recently gave her a $10 bill for a single story.
"O.K., maybe she thought this was about charity," Ms. Brune said. "Or maybe she just thought I was undervaluing my work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Adrian Brune makes her sales pitch to Javier Fuentes in the subway station at Grand Central Terminal. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); NEWSSTANDS (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (75%); SALES & SELLING (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); MUSIC STORES (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); VENDORS, STREET; WRITING AND WRITERS 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY; BRUNE, ADRIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42ND STREET (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



250 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-18

Israel Begins to Tear Down Unauthorized Outposts
Israeli soldiers began tearing down the first of 14 "unauthorized outposts" -- adjuncts to West Bank settlements -- that Prime Minister Ariel Sharon promised to destroy in compliance with the new American-led peace initiative. A1

President Bush said he would follow through on promises he made to both Israelis and Palestinians in Aqaba, Jordan, and that he remained optimistic about forging peace between them despite a wave of bloodshed that killed five Israeli soldiers and five Palestinians over the weekend. A12

Iraqi Oil Industry in Tatters
The Iraqi oil industry, which has the world's third largest oil reserves, and was once among the best-run and most smartly equipped in the world, is in tatters because of looting, sabotage and a continued lack of security. A1

Unknown gunmen killed an American soldier at a checkpoint in Iraq on Sunday, bringing to nine the number of soldiers killed in attacks in 14 days. Military officials expect the strikes to be curbed by the deployment of additional troops. A16

Britain Not Ready for Euro
Britons might vote next year on joining the European single currency, according to Gordon Brown, chancellor of the exchequer, who considers the British economy to be moving faster than the economies of its European neighbors. A3

Powell Meets Latin Leaders
Meeting with foreign ministers from Latin America and the Caribbean, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell moved to smooth over differences from the diplomatic wrangle that preceded the war in Iraq, but encountered divergences on issues like trade and human rights. A18

NATIONAL A19-27

Prescription Drug Benefits for Medicare and H.M.O.s
In a tactical retreat, the Bush administration told Congress that it would accept equal prescription drug benefits for people in the traditional Medicare program and those who join private health plans. A1

Former Senator's Mastectomy
After undergoing a double mastectomy for breast cancer former Senator Edward W. Brooke struggled with how to share his experience with loved ones, but he is now speaking publicly in an effort to bring attention to a disease that many men assume they cannot get. A1

Bush Pushes Wider Tax Cut
The White House all but demanded that House Republicans quickly approve a Senate bill to increase the child tax credit for 6.5 million low-income families. A26

Monkeypox Scares Midwest
As the number of suspected monkeypox cases rose to at least 33 in three Midwestern states, hundreds of nervous people contacted doctors and public health hotlines, veterinarians and pet shops, full of questions about a viral disease never before seen in this part of the world. A20

Anthrax Search Leads to Pond
The F.B.I. said the authorities began draining a small pond in a municipal park near Frederick, Md., searching for evidence in the unsolved anthrax mailings that killed five people 2001. A19

High Court Eases Bias Suits
A unanimous Supreme Court made it significantly easier for workers to win discrimination suits against their employers in cases where race, sex, religion or national origin was a factor in a dismissal. A22

Virus Test For Blood Supply
The American Red Cross said that by midsummer nearly all of the country's blood supply would be undergoing experimental tests for the West Nile virus. A24

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

City Hall Seeks Credit For Falling Crime Rate
New York City's crime rate has continued to fall, and the Bloomberg administration says the credit should go to a series of highly selective crime-fighting initiatives that has won significant victories in the streets. A1

The Varied World of Steinway
All Steinway pianos are made the same way by the same people in the same factory, yet each is different. The reasons for this are a mystery, but the workers, each playing a different role, are certainly at the heart of the answer. A1

Kidnapping Suspect Arrested
A man accused of abducting his former girlfriend last month and sexually assaulting her until she escaped was captured on Sunday when he tried to break into her Long Island home, the Nassau County police said. B5

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B8

OBITUARIES C15

ARTS E1-10

SPORTS D1-7

Devils Win Stanley Cup
The New Jersey Devils defeated the Anaheim Mighty Ducks, 3-0, in game seven of the National Hockey League finals to capture the championship. This is New Jersey's third Stanley Cup title, having won previously in 1995 and 2000. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Shake Up at Freddie Mac
Mortgage provider Freddie Mac fired David Glenn, its president, contending he had failed to cooperate with an internal investigation. C1

Boeing Exploring Options
The state of Washington is now facing one of its worst nightmares -- the possibility that Boeing, its biggest employer, will move final assembly of its next wide-body jet to another state. Boeing put out a call for proposals last month, nearly a dozen states quickly expressed interest. C1

Reports Detail Fraud
Bernard J. Ebbers, the former chairman and chief executive of WorldCom, ran the company in a manner that fostered fraud, according to court documents. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: Beyond Mideast promises; diverting the war on terrorism; under the overcast skies; Adam Cohen on what Jesus would do: sock it to the corporate landowners.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E8
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (86%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); IRAQ WAR (70%); FAMILY (70%); POOR POPULATION (70%); BREAST CANCER (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (68%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (68%); CANCER (68%); MEDICARE (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (68%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (68%); ANTHRAX (67%); TAX LAW (67%); EURO (66%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%); LEGISLATION (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (61%); PETS (60%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (50%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (50%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) ISRAEL (96%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JORDAN (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



251 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Freddie Mac Fires President Over Accounting Inquiry
Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance company, fired David Glenn, left, its president, contending that he failed to cooperate with an internal investigation into its accounting practices.
 The company's two other most senior officials abruptly quit, Freddie Mac said. Leland C. Brendsel, Freddie Mac's chairman and chief executive, retired, and Vaughn Clarke, its chief financial officer, resigned. Page A1. 

The turmoil at Freddie Mac is creating ripples in financial markets and could threaten the robust housing market, which has brightened the dreary economy, analysts said. C3.

Another Twist for Software Bids
A three-way tug of war has emerged among Oracle, PeopleSoft and J. D. Edwards. PeopleSoft, which agreed to buy J. D. Edwards, then received a $5.1 billion unsolicited bid from Oracle. This led Robert Dutkowsky, the chief executive of J. D. Edwards, to say that a takeover of PeopleSoft by Oracle would raise "serious antitrust problems." C2.

Iraq's Oil Industry Faces Many Ills
Iraq's oil industry, once among the best-run and most smartly equipped in the world, is in tatters. Looting, sabotage and the lack of security at oil facilities are problems the industry and its American overseers must address in order to get petroleum flowing again. A1.

Bush Asks for Passage of Tax Credit
The White House requested that House Republicans quickly approve a Senate bill to increase the child tax credit for 6.5 million low-income families. A1.

For Greenspan: A Cut or a Surprise
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, must choose between cutting interest rates again or surprising the markets by not doing it. News Analysis. C1.

Motorola Cuts Estimates for 2003
Shares of Motorola fell 21 cents, to $8.68, after the company reduced sales and profit forecasts for the year, blaming excess inventory and the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Asia. Motorola expects to break even on a per-share basis in the second quarter, before some costs and gains. It had forecast profit of as much as 5 cents. C7.

Supplier Inventories Fell in April
Inventories at wholesale distributors fell 0.1 percent in April, to $290.6 billion, the Commerce Department said. C8.

Online Security Agency Planned
The Department of Homeland Security says that it has created a national cybersecurity division to prepare for and respond to Internet attacks against government networks and some private-sector networks. C2.

Shares Fall on Freddie Mac News
The three major stock gauges declined. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 82.79 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 8,980. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 11.83 points, or 1.2 percent, to 975.93, and the Nasdaq composite index decreased 23.45 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,603.97. C9.

General Dynamics Buying Veridian
General Dynamics said it planned to acquire the defense contractor Veridian for $1.23 billion. General Dynamics will also assume $270 million in Veridian debt. C4.

Suit Over Sale of Clayton Homes
Orbis Investment Management Ltd., a Bermuda-based money manager, has asked a Delaware court to help it block Warren E. Buffett's $1.7 billion purchase of Clayton Homes Inc., a mobile-home maker in which Orbis has a 5 percent stake. C8.

Celebrity Watching on the Concorde
Regulars on the Concorde are reminiscing about the celebrities they have met on their supersonic flights. Business Travel. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,980.00 down 82.79Nasdaq composite -- 1,603.97 down 23.4510-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.28% down 0.07The euro -- $1.1743 up 0.0039The dollar -- 117.43 yen down 1.38 Graph tracks share prices of Motorola for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); FAMILY (75%); INVENTORIES (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); WHOLESALERS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (66%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (65%); LEGISLATION (65%); CYBERCRIME (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); SARS (62%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (50%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (53%); GD (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (50%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%) SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES; 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); BOB DUTKOWSKY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



252 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2045 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL; 
A Different Kind of Victory

BYLINE:  By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
Jail or the Army. Peter Holt had to choose. 
 It was the summer of 1966 and he was taking all of South Texas on an inebriated car chase, outrunning himself as much as the law. They caught him by the fall, when Holt, a 17-year-old hellion, stood before a judge in Corpus Christi. 
 "I never even called a lawyer or the family," Holt said. "I just figured anything was better than jail." 
 That's how the heir to the Caterpillar tractor fortune ended up in Vietnam -- how a rich man's son fought alongside poor young men whose families did not have the connections or the money to keep them home. 
 He returned, decorated but scarred, with the help of men nicknamed Big Red and Pineapple. Holt drank his way through the 1970's, and checked in and out of rehab clinics in the 1980's, beginning an unending battle with alcoholism. He married a young woman from Corpus Christi who loved him too much to leave him, sobered up, took over the family business and, one day, almost on a lark, bought an N.B.A. franchise, the San Antonio Spurs.
 With Holt watching from courtside at Continental Arena this week, the Spurs are two victories away from their second championship in five seasons.
 They are owned by a man with a slight drawl and piercing eyes, dressed in a jet-black blazer and polished boots and sitting inconspicuously with his wife of 21 years, Julianna Hawn Holt. In an era of often meddling men like Daniel Snyder and Jerry Jones, Holt is the antithesis of the visible and vocal modern professional sports owner. But he has a compelling yarn to tell, more enrapturing perhaps than any of them.
 "It's not like I've been hiding it," Holt said. "I just felt it was my personal life and no reason to go into all that with everyone. 
 "What do you want to know? I barely made it out of high school, tried to get into college, didn't even register for college, lived at the frat house, got drunk, had a damn good time and ended up in Vietnam. What else?" 
 In 1904, Benjamin Holt, Peter's great-grandfather, invented the crawler tractor and founded Caterpillar Inc. Before mass-producing grain farms sprouted across the country, Benjamin Holt sold his contraptions to governments as far away as Russia and Argentina.
 By the mid-to late 20th century, Caterpillar's black-and-yellow CAT insignia, adorning baseball caps worn by farmers and truckers, became an icon of rural America. The Smithsonian Institute still salutes Benjamin Holt's contributions to industry.
 By the time his grandson Benjamin Dean, the last direct descendant to own a Caterpillar dealership, settled in Corpus Christi in the early 1960's, the Holts were high society in a small South Texas town. But Peter, the eldest of their three children, was already in trouble.
 "From the time I took my first drink, at 14, I realize now that I was -- and would be until I stopped -- an alcoholic," Peter Holt said in interviews in Dallas and San Antonio over the last two weeks. "Back then, no one understood a teenager could be an alcoholic. But I understood, even then: I drank to get drunk."
 Holt recalled driving from Corpus Christi to Mexico to buy dirt-cheap tequila and beer after he got his driver's license at 14. By the time he had barely graduated from King High School in Corpus Christi, he was infamous. Holt had amassed a litany of citations, from public drunkenness to driving under the influence. He boasted of breaking the record for most tickets during one car chase with the police: 25.
 In the fall of 1966, his parents sent him to Texas Christian University in Fort Worth, hoping that college would mature him. Unbeknownst to them, however, he never enrolled. Instead, he was passing out each night on a fraternity's couch. Another public drunkenness violation doomed him. He was sent back to Corpus Christi.
 A judge there told Holt to straighten himself out. He asked Holt if he was in school. "No," he answered. "Look, you need to go in the Army," Holt recalled the judge telling him. "If not, I'm going to throw you in jail."
 Holt volunteered for the draft, then went home to break the news to his parents, who still thought he was attending classes at T.C.U. "I think my mother literally fainted," Holt said. "And my father falls in his chair and goes, 'What?! Son,' he says, 'you're going to Vietnam."' 
 "I said, 'What's Vietnam?"'

Frat House To Front Lines
 Alan Wetzel, known as Big Red, said 50 soldiers from his company were killed and about 300 were wounded in the war. They once lost six men trying to save one soldier in a bunker, each one getting picked off by a sniper. In Holt's unit alone, only one other soldier who originally came in with him returned home alive.
 Wetzel spoke by telephone last week from his home in Crossville, Tenn. He was 28 years old in 1968, fresh out of West Point, when Holt became his radio operator, his liaison with central command.
 "No one knew he was the son of a millionaire -- he never told us," said Wetzel, now 64, a retired Army colonel who was Holt's commanding officer in Vietnam. "He was just this lanky Texan with a baby face and that silly grin, a 19-year-old sharp-talking kid with a hard mouth, to be honest. But Peter was a good soldier, a real good soldier."
Their infantry battalion -- Company A, second battalion (mechanized), 22nd Infantry of the 25th Infantry Division -- was situated northwest of Saigon, near the Cambodian border. For four straight months, they were engulfed in the Tet offensive and were caught in daily firefights.
 "I got saved as many times as I saved anybody," Holt said. "I understood the reason I came out alive is because maybe some of those guys died."
 In spring 1968, Holt was hit by a fragmented bullet in the base of his neck. He had volunteered with two other soldiers to rescue comrades from a burning tank in the middle of a large cemetery. 
 To survive the crossfire, he blanketed himself with the bodies of two comrades and lay there for seven hours. The North Vietnamese eventually pulled back, and Holt could see American troops from where he was lying. As the Americans rolled past, he stuck up his arm and they pulled him out to safety.
 Three days later, Holt was back in combat. His injury was not considered debilitating enough to send him home. During his tour of duty, Holt earned the Silver Star, three Bronze Stars and the Purple Heart.
 "I never suffered like some people afterward," he said. "Vietnam wasn't why I almost drank myself to death. When I go through it or relive it, I feel I did the best I could truly do as a 18- or 19-year-old kid, so maybe that helps."
 About five years ago, Holt and a few of the men with whom he served reconnected after 30 years, including Lloyd Marshall, his good friend from Hawaii known as Pineapple and the only man who came into the unit with him who also survived.
 At a reunion in 1999, Wetzel recalled, Holt's father approached him. "He told me that he could have gotten Peter out of going, but that Peter wanted to pay his dues," Wetzel said.
 Wetzel said Holt "always told me his dream was to go back to Corpus Christi, stand on the corner with a bottle of Thunderbird and watch the girls go by."
 "That was his ambition in life," Wetzel said.
 Holt began laughing when told of Wetzel's recollection. "Typical alcoholic answer, right?" he said.
 After Vietnam, Holt spent a decade in California, investing in a San Francisco bar and a small hotel with his father's help. All the while, the bingeing continued.

Turned Around On a Trip South
 Holt said he drove away his first wife, sold his bar and the hotel, and eventually made his way back to South Texas, penniless and ruled by a single desire: to drink until he dropped. By 1981, he had hit bottom. Driving a beat-up Ford Fairlane to Mexico to buy cheaper booze, Holt had traded down cars and even tires for extra cash. One of his refuges was a fleabag motel on San Pedro Avenue in San Antonio, a few miles from where the Spurs played.
 A friend turned him around in the middle of his trip to Mexico toward a rehabilitation clinic. He stayed sober for three months, relapsed and returned to rehab for 90 days. It took him three years to put his life back together.
 "There was no doubt that I was going down to Mexico to drink myself to death," Holt said. "Now, was that my conscious decision? No, I was just going down 'cause I could buy whiskey cheaper. But I knew I would die there if I went."
 Though his father's company was worth about $20 million at the time, Holt had been cut off financially, his family not wanting to further enable a destructive alcoholic. "I never pretended I didn't like money," Holt said. "Economics can force issues, and they did on me. I had almost nothing at the time." 
 Finally, convinced that his son would have no more relapses, Benjamin Holt sold Peter the Caterpillar dealership at a bargain rate in 1983. Peter, too, thought he had defeated the addiction and figured it was all right to have a drink now and then.
 Peter's second wife, Julianna, whom he married in 1982, vividly recalled the last day her husband had a drink. It was mid-September 1986. Holt had not just fallen off the wagon; he had fallen into the water during a sailing trip.
 Julianna confronted her husband at home, remembering what he said when they had married: "If I fall back into this, call my father and don't let me live in your house. It's the only way."
 She followed through, calling her father-in-law. They arranged for Peter to stay at a rehabilitation clinic in Austin. That night, Julianna hugged her husband as he climbed aboard a company-owned helicopter. But Holt never checked into the clinic.
 "God, I remember that night," he said. "We flew pretty low to the ground. I was making the pilots keep landing and buying me beer at these little convenience stores. What could they do? They worked for me. I was going to fire them if they didn't stop."
 Julianna contacted the pilots, heard their stories and arrived in Austin at about 2 a.m. She had no idea where to look, but she was prepared to search every dive for her husband. 
 She still does not know how she ended up in the right place, the Austin Hyatt, where Holt had taken a room and passed out.
 "By the grace of God, without knowing where to look, I just ended up at the hotel," she said. Julianna woke her husband at 3 a.m. and sent him in a taxi to the clinic.
 "For the first time, I understood the pain I was causing, having a family and career and what that meant," he said. "I got on my knees and asked God to help me. And I haven't had a drink since."

Local Investment Turns Into a Title
 Holt became a Spurs season-ticket holder in 1988. He and his wife admired David Robinson, but the idea of signing his paychecks did not dawn on them until the mid-1990's.
 Holt's business obligations in Ohio, Canada and South Texas were taking him far away from his family too often. The Holts wanted to invest in something locally to keep him at home, and the Spurs were on the market.
 He first invested in the team in 1996, and later that year became the majority owner. A few players have asked Holt about his Vietnam experiences, but he has never discussed his alcoholism with them. 
 Coach Gregg Popovich, an Air Force Academy alumnus, said he felt a kinship with Holt because of their military backgrounds.
 "He was in the middle of it and you would never know it," Popovich said. 
 Several years ago, Holt sent his secretary on a mission: find Big Red.
 "When she called and asked if I knew a Peter Holt, I said yes," Wetzel said. "I thought he had a little plumbing business or something."
Within months, Wetzel was courtside at a Spurs game, in the $363 seats.
 Today, Holt often jokes about his drinking binges with his daughter, Corinna, 18, and his son, Peter John, 16. He has also an older stepdaughter, Ashley, 30, who is Julianna's child from her first marriage.
 His family was there the night the Spurs became the first team from the defunct American Basketball Association to win a National Basketball Association championship, closing out the Knicks in 1999 at Madison Square Garden.
 The small-market Spurs had won it all in the big city -- a tale almost as good as the one about a Corpus Christi rebel who turned his life around.
 "I didn't have any Champagne," Holt said, "but I poured it on a lot of other people."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Holt, an heir to the Caterpillar tractor fortune, was cut off financially when his drinking was out of hand. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. D1); Above, Peter Holt, the owner of the Spurs, and his wife of 21 years, Julianna Hawn Holt. Left, a photo on his office wall shows him, kneeling in the front row, second from left, with his Army unit in Vietnam. Below, his medals. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); FAMILY (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (88%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); GRANDPARENTS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); JUDGES (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (66%); SPORTS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); GRAIN FARMING (60%) BASKETBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ALCOHOL ABUSE 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN ANTONIO SPURS (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%) SAN ANTONIO SPURS; CATERPILLAR INC 

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (85%); CATR (PAR) (85%); CAT (SWX) (85%); CAT (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%)

PERSON: WISE, MIKE; HOLT, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



253 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Contraband Is Big Business in Paraguay 

BYLINE:  By TONY SMITH 

DATELINE: ASUNCION, Paraguay 

 BODY:
Judging by this country's trade figures, Paraguayans would seem to be a nation of ferocious chain smokers.
 Last year, the tobacco industry here produced about 45 billion cigarettes, worth about $600 million all told. But according to the central bank's records, only about 300 million cigarettes, or $4.3 million worth, were exported. That leaves about a pack a day to be smoked by each Paraguayan man, woman and child. 
 In reality, of course, most of the cigarettes really are exported -- just not legally. Industry experts say that nearly 95 percent of the country's output, including counterfeit versions of American brands like Marlboro and Camel and Latin American favorites like Derby and Free, are smuggled through Paraguay's porous borders with Argentina, Bolivia and Brazil and then on to destinations as distant as the Caribbean, the United States and Mexico. 
"Paraguay's tobacco exports are, almost without exception, illegal," said Milton Cabral, vice president of Souza Cruz, the Brazilian subsidiary of British American Tobacco.
The situation is typical of many industries here. About one-fifth of the Paraguayan economy has been driven for years by illicit cross-border trafficking in everything from cigarettes and pirated Nintendo games to submachine guns and stolen BMW's. 
But now the country has a president-elect -- Nicanor Duarte Frutos, who won handily in April and is to take office in August -- who has promised to clamp down on "the chronic problems" of counterfeiting and contraband and "build a system of legality," as he put it in remarks he made to reporters on a recent visit to Brazil. 
Even if he is to be believed -- and there are already signs his zeal for reform might not survive long once he is in office -- Mr. Duarte Frutos will have a tough job weaning the economy off contraband, even though most Paraguayans agree it is increasingly urgent that the country kick the habit.
Paraguay is one of the poorest countries in Latin America and getting poorer. Income per person has fallen by half in the last six years, to less than $900 a year, and more than one-third of the population lives in abject poverty. With the public payroll bloated with 200,000 government employees, nearly all affiliatedwith Mr. Frutos's Colorado Party, the country's finances are draining fast. 
The government has been especially short of cash in the last 12 months, as the money from a $400 million loan from Taiwan has started to run out, obliging the central bank to print fresh stacks of increasingly worthless Guarani notes, sending inflation spiraling up from the single digits to about 17 percent this year. Nearly one-fifth of the work force is jobless.
The lack of funds has stopped public-sector investment in its tracks, and is effectively stalling multilateral loans to agribusiness because the Paraguayan state cannot afford its part. That industry's hard-currency earnings had been one of the legitimate economy's only real bright spots.
"We are staring what could be a notorious social collapse right in the face," said Luis Campos, economist and partner at KPMG's local affiliate. "And the crisis has its epicenter in the government's fiscal problems."
Mr. Campos estimates that annual government revenues have slid from more than $1 billion in 1996 to just $700 million today, which could explain why Mr. Duarte Frutos is keen to clamp down on what is politely called the informal economy.
Putting a precise figure on the size of that economy is difficult, naturally. Most economists estimate it at one-fifth of Paraguay's $7 billion in gross domestic product, twice the proportion in the United States.
And as a source of fake goods or as a transshipment point between Asia and Latin America for gray-market computer components or for counterfeit high-fashion eyeglass frames, the country is a source of substantial losses to major companies worldwide as well.
Among those eager for a crackdown are executives at the Nintendo Company. Since 1998, when Paraguay signed a bilateral trade agreement with the United States, more than 4.4 million counterfeit Nintendo products have been seized in Paraguay, more than anywhere else in the Western Hemisphere, said Jodi Daugherty, chief piracy fighter at Nintendo's American unit. 
Ms. Daugherty said she could not say exactly how much of the $649 million that Nintendo calculates it lost to piracy globally in 2002 could be attributed to Paraguay, but she called it "a serious business number."
The company has gotten scant relief from the inefficient and corruption-plagued Paraguayan legal system. Since 1997, Nintendo has brought 36 cases in Paraguayan courts over counterfeiting or smuggling of its goods. None have been resolved yet. 
Neighboring Brazil also has a big informal economy -- for example, two-thirds of the personal computers sold there are supplied by the gray market. The components are made mainly in Asia; they come in through Paraguay. 
"We all suffer," said Reinaldo Opice, an executive at Microsoft's Brazilian unit. "If we managed to cut piracy by just 10 percent, the industry would grow by about $17 billion in four years."
So far, Mr. Duarte Frutos's pledges to crack down on cronyism and smuggling, and to "build a much more respected judicial system," have caused more raised eyebrows than optimism. After all, his Colorado Party has been in power since 1947, longer even than the Communists in North Korea.
Among the first people to congratulate Mr. Duarte Frutos the morning after the election at his heavily guarded home in Asuncion was Senator Julio Dominguez Dibb. Mr. Dominguez Dibb's father, Oswaldo, is Paraguay's richest tobacco baron and is under investigation for trying to copy and register as his own trademark the Brazilian customs seal that must be placed on every pack of cigarettes sold in thatcountry. He has denied any wrongdoing.
Soon after, Alejandro Nissen, one of the attorney general's most dogged investigators, was suspended without pay. Mr. Nissen revealed in 2001 that the current president, Luis Gonzalez Macchi, was driving around in a BMW limousine stolen from Johnson & Johnson in Brazil.
"So far I have seen no change in attitude despite the new incoming government," said Mr. Nissen, who said he believed that he was now paying the price for accusing Oscar Gonzalez Daher, another Colorado senator and an important ally of the new president, of also having a stolen car -- a shiny red Mercedes Benz. 
According to many analysts here, as long as Paraguay's shady business culture continues, it will prevent the country from focusing on what it does best: agriculture.
Thanks largely to new techniques and investments brought by the 450,000 "Brasiguayos" -- Brazilian farmers and their Paraguayan-born descendants who have populated regions along the border -- Paraguay has become the world's fourth-largest soy exporter and a major regional beef producer.
Brazil has other interests in Paraguay as well. It is by far the leading source of foreign investment in the country, with $1 billion in agribusiness, banking and a handful of "maquila" assembly plants that export legally to Brazil. 
"We have to try and give Paraguay an alternative" to smuggling and counterfeiting, said Luiz Augusto de Castro Neves, Brazil's ambassador in Asuncion. "Otherwise it could become a colony of evil, a paradise for drug dealers, money launderers and gun runners."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicanor Duarte Frutos, president-elect of Paraguay. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO PRODUCTS (92%); SMOKING (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COUNTERFEITING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMUGGLING; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; COUNTERFEIT MERCHANDISE; SMUGGLING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (90%); NINTENDO CO LTD (55%)

TICKER: BTI (NYSE MKT) (90%); BTI (JSE) (90%); BATS (LSE) (90%); 7974 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (90%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (55%)

PERSON: DUARTE FRUTOS, NICANOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARAGUAY (99%); BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); MEXICO (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) PARAGUAY; ARGENTINA; BOLIVIA; BRAZIL; LATIN AMERICA; MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



254 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Says It Seeks To Develop Nuclear Arms 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9 

 BODY:
North Korea declared today for the first time that it was seeking to develop nuclear weapons so that it could reduce the size of a million-man army it can no longer afford.
 The announcement came on the same day that several administration officials said the United States and its Asian allies were planning to track and inspect suspect sea shipments out of North Korea. 
 Administration officials said that those steps would stop short of a full embargo, but would amount to what one official called "selective interdiction." The effort is aimed at curbing the weapons exports of North Korea and cutting off its sources of cash, officials said. North Korea has shipped missiles to the Middle East, including Iran, and to Pakistan. 
The administration was deliberately measured in its public response to the North today.
"This does not mean we are on our way to war," Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said in Santiago, Chile, where he was attending a meeting of the Organization of American States, according to Reuters. "We are not." 
"The president continues to believe that there is an opportunity for a diplomatic solution, a political solution, but it's a solution that must come in a multilateral forum," Mr. Powell said at a news conference.
While debate continues on holding a second round of talks with North Korea -- the first was two months ago -- the administration is stepping up the economic pressure on the government of Kim Jong Il.
Japan began the process, sending 1,900 "safety inspectors" and policemen to meet a North Korean ferry suspected for years as being the link that allowed North Koreans living in Japan to transfer money home. When it became clear that the ferry would be inspected regularly, the North suspended the service.
American officials say those inspections are just a beginning. They are encouraging allies to stop ships and inspect them for drugs, as Australia did a month ago. Whether the United States itself will attempt to interdict shipments is unclear.
The legality of stopping ships is open to question. A ship suspected of carrying illegal drugs, for example, may be searched.
The effort "will be focused on those activities which require no additional laws, no new international treaties, no going to the United Nations Security Council," a senior official said. "Look at the Japanese, who can't stop transfers of money on North Korean ships, but suddenly discovered they can do 'safety inspections.' " Other techniques like that are under consideration.
The strategy, officials say, is to make no announcement of any new measures, to avoid any overt confrontation with the North. But the interdictions are intended to make clear, officials say, that the United States has had some success in organizing its Asian allies into a loose coalition to put more and more pressure on the North. The most important nation needed in that coalition is China, and so far there is no indication it is willing to seal off its border or cut off oil and other shipments.
There is no indication that the squeeze on the North is having much effect. A Congressional delegation that traveled there last week said officials boasted that they had nearly completed reprocessing 8,000 spent nuclear fuel rods, which can make four or five weapons.
The North was believed to have two nuclear weapons produced at least a decade ago, but with the ejection of international inspectors on New Year's Eve the opportunity to produce weapons has increased.
"What they are doing, though, is edging toward a declaration that they are now a nuclear weapons state," a senior official said. "And once they take that step, how do we respond?"
That is the subject of a continuing debate between Mr. Bush and his allies. Meetings with the leaders of South Korea and Japan have produced statements that the allies will not tolerate a nuclear North Korea. But the meaning of that is unclear.
The White House has said that it will rule out no options, even a military strike against the North's nuclear facilities. South Korean leaders have declared such a strike would be unthinkable, and have said they will neither plan for any military solution nor discuss one with allies. 
In today's announcement, the North said it might have to develop a "nuclear deterrent." Its usual warning is that it will develop a "physical deterrent" against the United States.
Today also marked the first time North Korea linked its atomic weapons program to the goal of cutting its conventional military and saving money. Its huge army consumes most of the country's budget. But it also performs nonmilitary functions, including building housing.
"They introduced a new element into their logic today when they said they would also do this as a cost-saving measure," Mr. Powell said. "I'll have to reflect on that for a while," he added. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); ARMS TRADE (90%); ARMIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); PEACE PROCESS (74%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); TRENDS (72%); POLITICS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (71%); MARINE SHIPPING (71%); WIRE TRANSFERS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (59%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; ARMS SALES ABROAD 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (55%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); KIM JONG IL 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



255 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: An Old Washington Hand Goes Home to Mississippi 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: BILOXI, Miss., June 9 

 BODY:
For a generation, Haley Barbour has been a pillar of the Washington Republican establishment: a two-term party chairman, an adviser to presidents, a prodigious fund-raiser, a campaign strategist and a highly paid lobbyist for tobacco companies, pharmaceutical manufacturers, communications giants and others.
 Now, Mr. Barbour, 55, has come home to Mississippi -- for good, he says -- to challenge the Democratic governor, Ronnie Musgrove, in what promises to be the most compelling of the country's three races for governor this year. Washington insiders say they cannot remember another political operative of such stature running for high office himself. 
 Today, underscoring Mr. Barbour's Washington connections, Vice President Dick Cheney came to this resort town on the Gulf Coast to raise money for the campaign, returning a favor Mr. Barbour has performed for countless Republicans over the years. It was Mr. Cheney's first appearance for a candidate this year, his spokeswoman said.
"His political and business experience make him uniquely qualified to lead Mississippi," Mr. Cheney declared at a $100-a-plate lunch where Mr. Barbour hoped to raise $250,000 to $300,000, an unheard-of sum for one political event in this state.
Before the year is out, party leaders say, Mr. Barbour plans to raise $8 million to $10 million, almost twice what Mr. Musgrove and his Republican opponent, Mike Parker, spent combined four years ago. "I'm going to raise as much money as I can," Mr. Barbour said in an interview. "It's not easy to beat an incumbent."
Governor Musgrove is trying to make Mr. Barbour's money and connections in Washington the pivotal issue in the campaign. He has been wounded politically by the sour economy, and his separation from his wife during his term did him no good. But the governor has the reputation here of being a relentless campaigner who can never be counted out.
Repeating in an interview a line he uses in his campaign speeches, Mr. Musgrove said: "I've spent the last 25 years in Mississippi working on Mississippi problems and finding Mississippi solutions. Haley's spent the last 25 years in Washington solving problems for special interests."
Mr. Barbour has his reply to this down pat. "I want to use my experience, skills and relationships to enhance what Mississippi gets from the federal government," he said. "We in Mississippi have never had a governor who had a longstanding relationship with a president and a vice president and the leaders of both houses of Congress. If that doesn't help Mississippi, then shame on me."
He emphasizes that he never completely left Mississippi. All the time he has worked in Washington, his wife and children have continued to live in his hometown, Yazoo City, and Mr. Barbour came home most weekends. As a young man in 1982, he ran for the Senate and lost to Senator John C. Stennis, a six-term Democratic institution.
The campaign is just beginning to take shape. Mr. Barbour has token opposition in the Aug. 5 Republican primary from Mitch Tyner, a trial lawyer. Mr. Musgrove, 45, has no consequential primary opponent.
The view here and in Washington is that the election in November is sure to be close. "It's a true toss-up race," said John J. Kohut, who tracks governors for the Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan Washington publication that handicaps races throughout the country.
W. Martin Wiseman, a political scientist who directs the John C. Stennis Institute of Government at Mississippi State University, agreed.
"If money decides the race, then it's over," Mr. Wiseman said. "But what Musgrove lacks in money, he'll make up with hard work. If money is an ally of Barbour, sheer tenacity is an ally of Musgrove."
The two men are a study in contrast. Mr. Barbour is beefy. Mr. Musgrove is wiry. Mr. Barbour has the accent of a patrician. He sounds like the writer Shelby Foote, who narrated the Civil War series on television. Mr. Musgrove's accent is straight from the Hill country, like that of the country singer Tammy Wynette.
Mr. Barbour hopes to make the state's struggling economy the focus of the campaign. Mississippi has lost more than 40,000 manufacturing jobs since Mr. Musgrove took office in 2000. To close a gaping hole in the state budget, the governor resorted to gimmicks like collecting 13 months of taxes in one year and tapping the highway trust fund and tobacco settlement money to meet day-to-day expenses.
"We're in the worst financial mess we've ever been in," Mr. Barbour declared.
Mr. Musgrove says he cannot be held responsible for the weakness in the economy nationally and especially in the South. He takes every opportunity to demonstrate the work he is doing to bring jobs to the state.
The governor was in the first car that came off the assembly line of a new Nissan plant north of Jackson last month that promises to employ 5,000 workers. Today, he broke ground at a Northrop Grumman shipyard in Gulfport.
Only two other states, Kentucky and Louisiana, elect a governor this year, and the races there have not yet gelled. Mr. Musgrove does not have recent history on his side. Last year, incumbent Democratic governors were defeated in Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina.
Mr. Barbour must overcome the charge that he has spent his career as a fixer. His law firm, Barbour Griffith & Rogers, ranked seventh among Washington firms in terms of lobbying revenues last year, according to a study by The National Journal, and Fortune listed the firm as No. 1 in terms of political influence.
Mr. Barbour said he was "winding down" his lobbying but would continue to draw his share of the firm's profits unless he was elected.
Robert S. Strauss, the former Democratic Party chairman who is in Mr. Barbour's league as a party stalwart and puller of strings, said he once thought of running for the Senate from Texas but concluded he would be clobbered.
"Successful political operatives," Mr. Strauss said, "are in the main people who are able to contain their desire for visibility and assert influence behind the scenes." But "Haley has a unique situation," Mr. Strauss said. "His personality is more that of a politician. And, you know, he looks like an officeholder."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Haley Barbour, a Republican candidate for governor, was joined yesterday by Vice President Dick Cheney at a fund-raiser in Mississippi. (James Edward Bates for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); TOBACCO MFG (72%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES 

PERSON: HALEY BARBOUR (93%); DICK CHENEY (90%) BARBOUR, HALEY; MUSGROVE, RONNIE (GOV); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: BILOXI, MS, USA (77%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) MISSISSIPPI

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



256 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2305 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: ECONOMIC LIFELINE; 
Widespread Looting Leaves Iraq's Oil Industry in Ruins

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: BASRA, Iraq, June 6 

 BODY:
Standing under the merciless sun outside his office, surrounded by employees shouting angrily about pay, Jabbar Ali al-Leaby, the director general of the South Oil Company, lost the little patience he had left.
 "Be satisfied with what you got," he told the men. "Do you know what I went through to get even this money for you?" 
 It was only three hours into the workday, but Mr. Leaby's frustrations started, as they do every morning, when he arrived around 8 to the lone refurbished office in a complex of buildings so thoroughly ransacked that birds dart through the upper stories. Employees of South Oil, Iraq's leading oil producer before the war, are now idle because looting has brought most of the company to a standstill. 
"The other day, there was looting and sabotage at the North Rumaila field," Mr. Leaby said. "The day before that, at the Zubayr field. For three months, I've been talking, talking, talking about this, and I'm sick of it."
This is now the state of the Iraqi oil industry, custodian of the world's third largest oil reserves -- an estimated 112 billion barrels -- and the repository of hope for the United States-led alliance and the Iraqi people themselves. Money from oil, the Bush administration has said repeatedly, will drive Iraq's economic revival, which in turn will foster the country's political stability. Many Iraqis agree.
Yet from the vast Kirkuk oil field in the north to the patchwork of rich southern fields around Basra, Iraq's oil industry, once among the best-run and most smartly equipped in the world, is in tatters.
Looting, sabotage and the continued lack of security at oil facilities are the most recent problems the industry and its American overseers must address in order to get petroleum flowing again, especially for export. 
Some Iraqis believe that the looting is deliberate sabotage by people still loyal to the Baath Party rule of Saddam Hussein. Whoever is behind the pilfering and destruction, they have compounded the problems accumulated over 12 years of United Nations sanctions. And the expertise needed to get the oil flowing again often resides with oilmen now tainted by their past association with Mr. Hussein.
The interim oil minister, Thamir Ghadhban, and his American advisers are trying to purge the industry of senior Baathists. Yet neither the Americans nor the new minister have proposed a new structure for the industry, which might make it easier to argue that new people are needed. For now, they are working the old state-run model under which the ministry oversees the two companies -- Northern Oil and South Oil -- and other agencies in charge of exploration, pipelines and other equipment and exports.
"The sector itself is in poor shape after years of sanctions, and the effects will take time and money to reverse," said Raad Alkadiri, a specialist on Iraqi oil from PFC Energy, a Washington consulting firm, who recently visited Iraq.

Security
Army of Looters Like Crawling Ants
The Oil Ministry, supported by the Americans, has set an aggressive schedule for the industry's revival. By the end of the year, Mr. Ghadhban has said, Iraq should be pumping about three million barrels a day, which would slightly exceed its prewar output.
Over the next two weeks alone, daily production should almost double to 1.4 million barrels a day, Mr. Ghadhban said in a recent interview, with one million barrels a day going to exports. Most industry experts say that is too optimistic, and that overall production is likely to total at best one million barrels a day by the end of this month.
The jump in production is expected to come from the Rumaila fields, the most prolific in the domain of South Oil Company, which before the latest war produced 2.1 million barrels a day. But an increase at Rumaila may be stymied by the total destruction by looters of Garmat Ali, a water treatment and pumping facility northwest of Basra.
Water needs to be injected into wells at Rumaila to create enough pressure to extract the oil. Water is also used to wash oil of salt before it is processed at the Basra refinery. 
Once a sprawling industrial site on a narrow branch of the Shatt al Arab waterway, Garmat Ali is now a ruin. Looting and arson have gnawed rows of hulking warehouses down to their steel skeletons. Not only small machine parts, but also water pumps and filters, which weigh tons, have been stripped away. Even the flagstones have been peeled off the sidewalks. 
"When we made our first site visit 12 days ago, it was as if the place was crawling with ants," said James Baker, the site manager of Kharafi National, a Kuwaiti construction company working at Garmat Ali. "Everyone was running out with a piece of something."
Kharafi National is the subcontractor for Kellogg Brown & Root, the unit of the Houston-based oil field service company Halliburton that the United States Army Corps of Engineers has tasked with emergency repairs of the Iraqi oil industry.
Halliburton specialists have fanned out from Kirkuk to the southern oil terminal of Mina al Bakr, providing what Mr. Leaby and other industry officials say is vital, if sometimes slow, help in reversing the looting damage.
Last Tuesday, Halliburton workers at Garmat Ali tested for the first time the new pumps and filters they started to install a week earlier to send water to the refinery to wash the oil.
A half-dozen burly Halliburton workers, some with ponytails and neon-bright bandanas, struggled to secure a large hose to a concrete platform using chains and ropes. Someone turned on the pump, and water gushed out of the open hose. "Now we're talking!" said Roger Davis, the Halliburton safety coordinator at the site. 
But the equipment the Americans have brought is only "5 percent of what we had before," said Adnan Hussein, a South Oil engineer who works at Garmat Ali. The other equipment still needed is for injecting water into the Rumaila fields.
The Army Corps of Engineers has not set a date for starting that project, and a corps spokesman said production at Rumaila could rise without the water. But Mr. Alkadiri and other independent Iraqi oil experts dispute that claim.
At South Oil's headquarters, Mr. Leaby questioned how any repairs could hold when security was so threadbare. "Every minute, we have something missing," he said. "Every time we fix something, it gets looted."
Mr. Leaby and other oil officials think that some damage to the oil industry can only be explained as sabotage. He points to the constant looting of electric facilities that provide the power to run oil pumping stations and other plants.
Phillip J. Carroll, the former Shell Oil executive who now heads an American-backed advisory committee to the Oil Ministry, said that an oil pipeline running from the north-central town of Beiji to Baghdad had been punctured by shooting, and that a spark from a passing car had set off an explosion and fire that burned for three days.
"There have been other attacks on facilities that seem senseless," Mr. Carroll said, "except to impede the development of the oil sector."
He conceded that despite the ongoing havoc, the military could do little more to help.
"People want, they actually demand, more security," he said at the Baghdad palace where the American civil administration is billeted. "And quite frankly, we don't have the forces at our disposal to do it."

Sanctions
Oil Was Pumped Exhaustingly Fast
Looters stole what little Iraqi engineers had scrimped and scavenged to keep the oil industry running during the 12 years of enforced poverty under United Nations sanctions.
Under the constraints of the United Nations and Mr. Hussein, engineers were forced to maximize output with minimal parts and equipment, a process that was slowly throttling the industry, Iraqi oil officials said.
Near the entrance to the Kirkuk oil field in the north looms a derelict statue of four towering swords upright on their hilts, their tops lashed together to form an oil derrick -- a symbol of the old government's dream of the might oil riches can bring.
This is where Iraqi oil was first exploited by the British. In 1991, production at the field stood at 1.25 million barrels a day, said Adel Qazzaz, the new director general of the North Oil Company that oversees the Kirkuk field.
From 1990 to 1996, Iraq stopped exporting oil entirely because of United Nations sanctions imposed after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Then, the Security Council developed the oil-for-food program, which regulated oil exports and used the revenues from them to import food and other civilian necessities.
By the start of the recent war, Kirkuk's oil production had fallen to about 800,000 barrels a day, nearly all of it piped to the Turkish Mediterranean port of Ceyhan for export under the United Nations program. 
Money was set aside under the program to purchase oil equipment. But the United Nations committee that monitored such imports into Iraq, led by the United States, often blocked the Iraqis' acquisition of equipment, arguing that it could be used to develop weapons.
Deprived of parts and machinery, the oil industry nonetheless was under pressure to produce as much as possible, ostensibly to earn money for civilian needs and, just as often, to enrich the old government, which industry officials said smuggled oil outside the sanctions program and skimmed fees from buyers of oil.
"Whoever got the money, we don't know," Mr. Qazzaz said with sad laugh in his office at the Kirkuk field, "but we needed the money."
"What we did, what we were forced to do, was exhaust the field," he added.
Pockets of oil and water form a petroleum reservoir, and water levels in a well rise with time to fill the space left by the oil extracted. Reservoir engineers usually suggest a certain rate of production for a well so that the water encroaches gradually and the greatest amount of oil can be recovered over the longest period of time.
North Oil Company often overruled its engineers and pumped as much oil as fast as possible, Mr. Qazzaz said, in the process damaging the reservoirs. The efficiency of wells diminished, and so did production.
When oil companies could actually buy desperately needed equipment, they were pressed to turn to suppliers from certain sympathetic countries.
"The pressure came from the ministry, but it actually started much higher than that," Mr. Qazzaz said, referring to Mr. Hussein and his inner circle. "There were instructions from the top that you have to go for the Russians or the Chinese."
The old government considered Russia, China and France valuable allies on the United Nations Security Council, Iraqi oil officials said. But the problem was that Russian and Chinese equipment, which the Iraqis most often were compelled to buy, was generally of poor quality, officials said.
"Every aspect of oil production," said Mr. Leaby of South Oil, "was affected greatly by getting inferior equipment."

De-Baathification
Purging Hacks Or Maybe Experts
Perhaps because the oil industry has been so central to Iraq, it cannot be anything but a microcosm of the country, from its impoverishment under sanctions to its plunder under this troubled peace. So it is perhaps not surprising that as the rest of Iraq grapples with a past dominated by the Baath Party, the oil industry is being shaken by the same debates.
In the months to come, Iraqis will no doubt face the same painful reckoning that Eastern Europe went through with the end of the Soviet bloc, as societies tried to determine the complicity of their citizens with the old, repressive rule. 
Within the Iraqi oil sector, the sorting of past allegiances is particularly fraught because a purge of top ex-Baathists from the industry's ranks may also end up ridding it of some of its best experts when their expertise is direly needed for the reconstruction effort, Mr. Alkadiri of PFC Energy said.
The industry is already fracturing over this issue. Ministry workers and the Doura Pipeline Company employees have repeatedly demonstrated in front of the ministry building in central Baghdad in the last month demanding a purge of high-ranking Baath Party members from their midst. Employees of the State Oil Marketing Organization, which handles oil exports, have elected a new management with the blessing of the Mr. Ghadhban, the interim oil minister.
"If the Baathists stay in power, nothing has been accomplished," said an engineer with the pipeline company who identified himself as Abu Mustafa. "The oil industry has been here since the British. But if this corruption lasts, we will be destroyed for sure."
The anti-Baathists contend that after 1990, when the government of Mr. Hussein began to politicize the oil industry in earnest, people won promotion because of their political loyalties, not their qualifications. That damaged the industry, they contend. Mr. Qazzaz, who never joined the Baath Party, estimated that about half the Baathists who rose to high positions at his oil company were not the best people for those jobs.
The anti-Baathists' case has been helped by a recent directive from L. Paul Bremer III, the American civil administrator for Iraq, stating that anyone of any seniority in the party should be disqualified from working for federal ministries. Beyond that, in each ministry, Baathists working in the top three levels of management might be subject to dismissal, too.
In Beiji, the site of the country's largest refining complex, the ministry two weeks ago directed the suspension of about 110 top Baathists from their jobs. Yet many employees there are furious.
"This will definitely affect the industry going forward," said the refinery's deputy director general, Ahmed Muafaq, himself formerly a low-level Baath Party member. "These people were very specialized. They're not clerks that can be replaced with other clerks. And you can't run companies without qualified people."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Adel Qazzas, left, managing director of Iraq's Northern Oil Company, says of the overpumping under Saddam Hussein, "What we did, what we were forced to do, was exhaust the field." At right, South Oil Company employees added oil to a pump at the Basra refinery, which has been plagued by power blackouts, making the refining process dangerous. (Matt Moyer/World Picture News, for The New York Times); (Molly Bingham/World Picture News, for The New York Times); "Every time we fix something, it gets looted," says Jabbar Ali al-Leaby, the head of Iraq's South Oil Company, standing in his looted and burned former office building in Basra. (Matt Moyer/World Picture News, for The New York Times)(pg. A18) Chart/Map: "Untapped Potential"Iraqs oil reserve, the third largest in the world, is expected to provide the money to finance the nations economic revival. Crude Oil Reserves in billions of barrels SAUDI ARABIA: 261.8CANADA: 180.0IRAQ: 112.5UNITED ARAB EMIRATES: 97.8KUWAIT: 96.5IRAN: 89.7VENEZUELA: 77.8RUSSIA: 60.0 (Source: Energy Information Administration)(pg. A18) Map of Iraq highlighting Oil Pipline and Oil Fields. (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); TERRORISM (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LOOTING; SABOTAGE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%) BANERJEE, NEELA; GHADHBAN, THAMIR; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



257 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
What Would Jesus Do? Sock It to Alabama's Corporate Landowners

BYLINE:  By ADAM COHEN 

DATELINE: MONTGOMERY, Ala. 

 BODY:
If the religious right had called up Central Casting last year to fill the part of governor, it could hardly have done better than the teetotaling, Bible-quoting businessman from rural central Alabama who now heads up the state. As a Republican congressman, Bob Riley had a nearly perfect record of opposing any legislation supported by the liberal Americans for Democratic Action.
 But Governor Riley has stunned many of his conservative supporters, and enraged the state's powerful farm and timber lobbies, by pushing a tax reform plan through the Alabama Legislature that shifts a significant amount of the state's tax burden from the poor to wealthy individuals and corporations. And he has framed the issue in starkly moral terms, arguing that the current Alabama tax system violates biblical teachings because Christians are prohibited from oppressing the poor. 
 If Governor Riley's tax plan becomes law -- the voters still need to ratify it in September -- it will be a major victory for poor people, a rare thing in the current political climate. But win or lose, Alabama's tax-reform crusade is posing a pointed question to the Christian Coalition, Focus on the Family and other groups that seek to import Christian values into national policy: If Jesus were active in politics today, wouldn't he be lobbying for the poor?
Alabama's tax system has long been brutally weighted against the least fortunate. The state income tax kicks in for families that earn as little a $4,600, when even Mississippi starts at over $19,000. Alabama also relies heavily on its sales tax, which runs as high as 11 percent and applies even to groceries and infant formula. The upshot is wildly regressive: Alabamians with incomes under $13,000 pay 10.9 percent of their incomes in state and local taxes, while those who make over $229,000 pay just 4.1 percent.
A main reason Alabama's poor pay so much is that large timber companies and megafarms pay so little. The state allows big landowners to value their land using "current use" rules, which significantly lowball its worth. Individuals are allowed to fully deduct the federal income taxes they pay from their state taxes, something few states allow, a boon for those in the top brackets.
Governor Riley's plan, which would bring in $1.2 billion in desperately needed revenue, takes aim at these inequalities. It would raise the income threshold at which families of four start paying taxes to more than $17,000. It would scrap the federal income tax deduction and increase exemptions for dependent children. And it would sharply roll back the current-use exemption, a change that could cost companies like Weyerhaeuser and Boise Cascade, which own hundreds of thousands of acres, millions in taxes. Governor Riley says that money is too tight to lift the sales tax on groceries this time, but that he intends to work for that later.
Church and state are not as separate in Alabama as they are in most places. (The chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court was in federal court last week defending his decision to install a 2.5-ton rendering of the Ten Commandments in the state's main judicial building.) Alabamians are used to hearing their politicians make religious arguments, and Governor Riley thinks he can convince the voters that Christian theology calls for a fairer tax system. "I've spent a lot of time studying the New Testament, and it has three philosophies: love God, love each other, and take care of the least among you," he said. "I don't think anyone can justify putting an income tax on someone who makes $4,600 a year."
The state's progressive voters, including many in the sizable African-American community, have backed tax-law changes like these for years. And reform-minded business leaders, who see such tax changes and improved schools as crucial to the state's economic development, have promised to spend millions of dollars on television ads in support of the September referendum.
But religious groups could provide the margin of victory. Susan Pace Hamill, a University of Alabama tax professor with a theological degree from an evangelical divinity school, caused a stir with a law review article called "An Argument for Tax Reform Based on Judeo-Christian Ethics," which makes an evangelical case for making the tax system fairer. She plans to train speakers this summer to take the theological argument to the grass roots. Kimble Forrister, the state coordinator of Alabama Arise, a coalition that advocates for poor people, expects the 100 church groups that are part of his organization to hold church-basement workshops this summer to get the word out to their congregations.
The Christian Coalition of Alabama has not yet taken a position on the September vote, but it has been speaking out against the plan's tax increases. In an interview yesterday, John Giles, the group's president, had trouble pointing to a biblical passage that directly supported his opposition to new taxes, but he referred to Jesus' statement about rendering unto Caesar what is Caesar's. The key question, he argued, is, "How much is Caesar's?"
As the Bush administration and the religious right fight to put theology more squarely into public policy discussions, they are going to have to be ready for arguments like the ones coming out of Alabama. Many theologians argue that it is far easier to find support in the Bible for policies that help the poor than for, say, a cut in the dividend tax. If Governor Riley's crusade succeeds this summer, Alabama may offer the nation a model for a new kind of tax system: one where the Devil is not in the details. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); TAXES & TAXATION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SALES TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CHURCH & STATE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (75%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (75%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); TAX REFORM (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); REFERENDUMS (68%); FACTORY FARMS (50%) EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; REFERENDUMS; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS) 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (57%); FOCUS ON THE FAMILY (55%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%)

PERSON: BOB RILEY (90%) COHEN, ADAM; RILEY, BOB (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) ALABAMA

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



258 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: RESISTANCE; 
Deadly Attacks on G.I.'s Rise; Generals Hope Troop Buildup Will Stop the Skirmishes

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD,Iraq, June 9 

 BODY:
Unknown gunmen shot and killed an American soldier at a checkpoint in western Iraq on Sunday night, continuing a series of attacks that have killed nine American troops in 14 days. 
 The number of casualties from attacks in Iraq has risen sharply in the past two weeks, but military officials said the recent deployment of 4,000 American soldiers to central Iraq would curb the threat. 
 "We are not going to allow it," said Capt. John Morgan, a military spokesman in Baghdad. "We are going to decisively engage." 
Military officials said they believed that small groups of hardened Saddam Hussein loyalists were responsible for most of the incidents. The strikes, which occur mainly across central Iraq, often involve tactics Iraqi irregulars successfully used at the outset of the war, hitting so-called soft targets like resupply convoys and isolated checkpoints. 
American and Iraqi officials said they believed the strikes did not represent the emergence of an organized nationwide resistance. American officials are eager to describe Iraq as stabilizing, but with few of the attackers captured, it is difficult to gauge whether the strikes are centrally planned. Officials have also said that radical Islamists and foreign fighters may also be involved.
In the three weeks after President Bush declared the end of major combat in Iraq on May 1, one American soldier was killed and at least 11 were wounded in hostile incidents, according to records from Central Command. In the last two weeks, 9 soldiers have been killed and at least 22 wounded in attacks. When accidents are included, Defense Department data show the toll since May 1 is 42 dead; 138 were killed in hostilities and accidents during the war.
There has also been a spate of nonfatal attacks on American forces in Baghdad. In the last eight days, unknown men attacked an American patrol with hand grenades and small arms in the Adhamiya neighborhood; an American military policemen was shot in the chest in Sadr City, the Baghdad neighborhood formerly called Saddam City; and there were at least two grenade attacks.
The continued violence is hampering efforts to bring Iraq the kind of calm needed for investment, business leaders say. If the attacks continue, they could complicate American plans to project an air of stability in the country, attract finance and eventually reduce the number of American troops. 
The American administrator, L. Paul Bremer III, met today with Iraqi businessmen and politicians, and representatives of the International Monetary Fund at a gathering of an American-led business council.
Mr. Bremer said that paying the salaries of state employees was infusing $500 million into Iraq's economy, but the country would also need outside investment. 
Though the attacks on American forces promote an image of continued strife in Iraq, other aspects of life are gradually returning to normal, particularly in Baghdad. 
Lines for gasoline are almost at their prewar lengths, thanks to the flood of fuel supplied by the allies. The food distribution system that provided sustenance to 60 percent of the population has resumed, and the lack of customs and tariff duties at borders has engendered a flood of small-scale trade as shops reopen. Sidewalks are stacked high with appliances and electronics goods trucked in from Jordan and Kuwait.
American soldiers in the city have appeared relaxed over the last several days. This afternoon, soldiers from the 82nd Airborne Division joked as they dealt with snarled traffic in northwest Baghdad. Residents said they had noticed no change in the number of American patrols or in soldiers' behavior.
"There are no incidents in Baghdad," Muhammad Nazir, a 29-year-old college student, said, referring to clashes between Iraqis and Americans. "So it's not a problem."
Most of the fatal attacks have taken place outside Baghdad in central Iraq, which is dominated by Sunni Muslims. That is where Mr. Hussein, a Sunni himself, enjoyed his strongest support and where senior members of the Baath Party were from.
The current spate of attacks began on May 26 with twin attacks on American convoys. In Haditha, about 120 miles northwest of Baghdad, assailants fired small arms, rocket-propelled grenades and machine guns at an American resupply convoy at 6:15 a.m., military officials said. Major Mathew E. Schram, 36, of Wisconsin was killed, and another American soldier was wounded.
In Baghdad at 5 p.m. on the same day, Pfc. Jeremiah D. Smith, a 25-year-old from Odessa, Mo., was killed and three others were injured when their vehicle drove over a mine or piece of unexploded ordnance on the main road leading to the city's airport. Military officials said they believed someone placed the device on the road.
The following day, May 27, a convoy of American soldiers was attacked in the town of Falluja, a city 35 miles west of Baghdad where residents said American soldiers had shot 18 unarmed demonstrators and wounded 80 during demonstrations in late April. American officials said their forces were fired on. 
In the firefight, which began at 1:30 a.m., two American soldiers were killed and nine wounded by unknown men firing rocket-propelled grenades and small arms at an American convoy. Military officials said two attackers were also killed and six were wounded. One of the American dead was identified as Sgt. Thomas F. Broomhead, 34, of Canon City, Colo. The identity of the other was not available.
A day later, on May 28, Specialist Jose A. Perez III, a 22-year-old from San Diego, Texas, was killed when his convoy was ambushed in the town of Taji, roughly 35 miles northwest of Baghdad. Six days later, on June 3, Sgt. Atanacio Haromarin, a 27-year-old from Baldwin Park, Calif., was killed when unknown gunmen fired guns and rocket-propelled grenades at his checkpoint outside the town of Balad north of Baghdad.
Two days later, on June 5, 20-year-old Private First Class Branden F. Oberleitner of Worthington, Ohio, was killed when an assailant fired a rocket-propelled grenade as he completed a patrol in Falluja. Five other soldiers were wounded.
Another two days later, on June 7, one American soldier was killed and five were wounded in an attack on American forces outside the city of Tikrit, in Saddam Hussein's home region, about 100 miles north of Baghdad. Small arms and rocket-propelled grenades were again used.
The latest killing occurred late Sunday night at an American checkpoint in the town of Al Qaim, near the Syrian border, military officials said. 
An unknown number of individuals drove up to a checkpoint saying they needed help for a sick person in the car, officials said. Two people armed with pistols stepped out of the car and shot a soldier.
Other soldiers shot back, killing a gunman and capturing a second. At least one gunman fled in the car.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nine American soldiers have died in attacks in Iraq in the last 14 days. A G.I. patrolled in Baghdad yesterday. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) Chart: "Fatalities in Iraq"The number of American troops killed in combat and accidents during and after the war through June 7, according to the Department of Defense. Chart shows number of American Fatalities in Iraq since March 21. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); TERRORISM (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); RICK PERRY (50%) ROHDE, DAVID; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



259 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: For Greenspan, A Time to Cut Or to Surprise? 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6 

 BODY:
By signaling that he is prepared to cut interest rates once again, Alan Greenspan has entered what many analysts consider to be dangerous territory in one of the most difficult battles he has fought as chairman of the Federal Reserve.
 Mr. Greenspan has used his rhetorical power in recent weeks to full effect, saying that he was inclined to take out "insurance" against a new downturn and the prospect of a sustained fall in prices, known as deflation. This hint of another cut in the short-term rate that the Fed controls has helped drive down long-term rates in the financial markets and reduced the cost of buying houses, factory equipment and many other engines of economic growth. 
 Before this month ends, however, Mr. Greenspan will have to switch from words to action, and he faces a dilemma in doing so. 
If the Fed does reduce short-term rates -- it would be the 13th cut since the start of 2001 -- they will fall to the lowest level since the 1950's. Rates would then be near a point where the $1 trillion money market industry had almost no room to earn profits, potentially disrupting financial markets and making it harder for some companies to borrow.
But if the Fed stands pat, it will do what Mr. Greenspan usually takes great strides to avoid doing: surprise the market. Mortgage and other interest rates would probably jump, and with the European Central Bank having cut its benchmark rate last Thursday by half a percentage point, the exchange value of the dollar might rebound somewhat, hurting American manufacturers that compete against foreign companies.
"You have so much anticipation that if the Fed didn't do anything now, people would all run for the same door at the same time," said Lou Brien, a strategist at DRW Trading in Chicago, which buys and sells financial contracts whose value is based on interest rates.
This uncomfortable choice greets Mr. Greenspan during an economic slump that has lasted more than two years and surprised him with its endurance. The Labor Department reported on Friday that unemployment reached 6.1 percent in May, a nine-year high, and that the economy was stuck in its longest sustained period without job growth in more than 60 years. 
While some other members of the Fed committee that sets interest rates have argued in recent months for another rate cut, Mr. Greenspan has remained optimistic and emphasized the underlying strengths of the economy, particularly the rapid growth in productivity caused largely by the adoption of new technology. With interest rates near zero, economists say Mr. Greenspan must soon be proved right to keep his once-secure reputation as one of the most successful central bankers in history. 
"The chairman has done a tremendous job for 15 years, managing crises, stabilizing the economy and helping to inform people about what the Federal Reserve's job really is," said Stephen G. Cecchetti, former research director at the New York Fed and now an economics professor at Ohio State University. "It would be a shame for it all to get blown because of a protracted slow-growth period."
Mr. Greenspan certainly seems energized, people who have worked with him say. In April, just a day after President Bush, responding to a reporter's question, said that Mr. Greenspan "should get another term" as Fed chairman, he released his own statement saying that he would accept reappointment. His current four-year term, his fourth, does not end until next June.
But the current fight to lift the economy out of its slump could be the last one for Mr. Greenspan. Having turned 77 on March 6, he is already the oldest Fed chairman ever. He is required by law to leave the Fed by early 2006, more than two years before his fifth term as chairman would end, because that is when his 14-year term as a member of the Fed's board expires. 
Board members cannot be reappointed, although they can remain on an interim basis for a short time until a successor is named. Mr. Greenspan became chairman in 1987 and completed the 14-year board term of Paul A. Volcker, his predecessor, before starting his own. 
In recent weeks, he has taken advantage of the scrutiny that each of his public comments receives to move markets without making any official policy decisions. By simultaneously emphasizing the economy's strengths and talking in more detail than he previously did about deflation, Mr. Greenspan has contributed to a rise in both stock and bond prices, an unusual combination that makes an economic rebound more likely.
His oratorical dance was on full display at a presentation he made by satellite last Tuesday -- from a book-lined television studio near the Fed's headquarters in Washington -- to a bankers' conference in Berlin. He began by noting that oil prices and lending costs had declined, suggesting what he called "a fairly marked turnaround" in the economy. 
But by the end of his talk, he was focusing on the unlikely but dangerous possibility of deflation, which can cripple an economy by causing wages to fall, debts to become effectively larger and consumers to cut spending. Because the risk of inflation is so low in the coming months, he told the bankers, the cost of taking out additional insurance against deflation was "very small indeed."
Long-term rates quickly fell further, reflecting a widespread, although not universal belief that the Fed would cut its benchmark rate -- the basis of the rate on overnight loans between banks -- by a quarter-point or even a half-point when it meets on June 24 and 25.
"If the market is pricing in an easing, it makes it more likely that an easing will take place," said William Dudley, chief economist of Goldman, Sachs. "In this environment, the Fed doesn't want to disappoint the market and have financial conditions tighten."
If long-term rates were to rise, the cost of buying new factory equipment, which most companies are already reluctant to do, would increase. Fewer consumers would be able to refinance their mortgages and use any leftover money for other things. Higher interest rates also tend to increase the exchange value of the dollar, making it more difficult for American companies to export goods and less difficult for foreign rivals to import.
A reduction in rates would ease these problems, and, most forecasters predict, help the economy finally begin growing at a healthy pace. But it would not come without its own complications.
At 1.25 percent, the Fed's benchmark interest rate leaves scant room for financial services companies to make a profit on money market funds. If the rate were cut to 0.75 percent, some funds' costs would exceed the interest rate. At a benchmark rate of 0.5 percent, most funds would be in that position, and some companies would probably leave the business. 
"If they want to stay in the game, they'd have to forgo some of the revenue, and that's going to hurt," said David L. Murphy, who oversees money market funds at Fidelity Investments.
Money market funds now hold more than $1 trillion in Americans' savings, up from almost nothing in the mid-1970's, and much of that money filters through the commercial-paper market to companies, which use it to invest. If the funds began closing or added fees, and caused investors to move money into bank accounts, the banks might not be willing to shoulder all the risk that a broader market now does, economists say.
Fed officials say they are not worried. Even if money market funds disappear, "there will still be lots of options that offer you very low risk," ensuring that there will be no lack of money for investment, said Arthur J. Rolnick, research director at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis.
The officials add that lowering the benchmark rate is not their only option for fighting economic weakness. If it reaches zero and deflation remains a risk, they can, for example, take concrete steps to lower long-term rates.
Outside the Fed, though, many other economists wonder whether radical measures, like taking interest rates to 50-year lows and possibly beyond or embarking on a new set of policies, will go as smoothly as the Fed expects.
"We've never done this before," Mr. Dudley of Goldman, Sachs said. "There might be some unintended consequences, and some of the unintended consequences might be bad."
Before the month ends, Mr. Greenspan will choose which set of consequences he prefers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DEFLATION (78%); EURO (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BONDS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



260 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Says He Drove Down Cost of School Construction 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
Saying that he has brought school construction costs under control, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced yesterday that one of the city's leading construction companies had agreed to build a long-delayed addition to Queens Vocational High School at a cost that was nearly 30 percent lower than the city has paid for recent school building projects.
 At a news conference at the school in Long Island City, Mr. Bloomberg said the company, Turner Construction Company, would build the addition for $315 per square foot, compared with the average cost of $438 per square foot for the seven most recent school projects. 
 But while Mr. Bloomberg said the deal heralded a new era of efficiency and cost-effectiveness, others said the city still had a long way to go to rein in a school-building process that has long been known for delays and cost overruns. 
A report last year by a state panel found that the national average cost for new school construction was $146 a square foot. And the director of the Bronx Preparatory Charter School, Kristin Kearns Jordan, said her school's new building in the South Bronx was being built for less than $240 a square foot.
Mr. Bloomberg and Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein said the deal with Turner Construction was a result of their effort to overhaul the school system. "For those of you that want to know what comes out of school reform, this is just another important part," Mr. Bloomberg said.
Last fall, Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Klein announced plans to merge the School Construction Authority and the City Department of Education's division of school facilities, saying that infighting between the agencies often increased the cost of projects and discouraged companies from bidding for school jobs.
But officials acknowledged that the merger alone would not reduce construction costs, and yesterday it seemed that much of what the mayor and the chancellor had done was based on recommendations in a report commissioned by the previous chancellor, Harold O. Levy. 
In December 2001, just before Mr. Bloomberg took office, Mr. Levy appointed a commission led by Peter M. Lehrer, a developer, to study ways to cut costs. The panel's report said the city could save up to 30 percent, lowering costs to about $325 a square foot, through uniform construction and less expensive building requirements.
At yesterday's news conference, William H. Goldstein, the president of the School Construction Authority, described new cost-cutting measures such as allowing the use of drywall instead of requiring concrete block for interior walls.
A senior vice president of Turner Construction, James C. McKenna, said the city had also agreed to a number of administrative reforms, such as reducing design changes during construction and avoiding delays in paying contractors.
But some said the city was still paying too much. "Clearly, $315 a square foot is better than $425," said Eva S. Moskowitz, chairwoman of the City Council's education committee. "But I still don't believe we are building at market price."
Ms. Moskowitz successfully led an effort this year to pass a law requiring the Department of Education to provide quarterly updates on all building projects. 
Ms. Moskowitz said the problem was not that bids were too high but that costs ballooned during construction. "It's what the school costs at the end of the day, once it's built," she said, adding that the mayor seemed to be celebrating too soon.
Ms. Jordan, the director of Bronx Prep charter school, said the public schools could do better. "It is a soft economy right now, so it is a good time to be buying construction," she said. "You should be able to get it for $250 a square foot."
Mr. Bloomberg has said that improving the schools is his most important goal. "We have produced better accountability, we have improved bidding procedures, and we have eliminated administrative bottlenecks," he said yesterday. 
As has become the custom at big education announcements, Mr. Klein stood quietly behind the mayor and then stepped forward to thank him. "Thank you for your leadership on this matter as well as so many other things," Mr. Klein said. "Before you became mayor, there was one report after another about the problems with school construction." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BUILDINGS (93%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MERGERS (69%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (52%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

COMPANY: TURNER CONSTRUCTION CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: TURNER CONSTRUCTION CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



261 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: THE NORTH; 
Iraqi Leaders, to Show Unity, Meet in Kurds' Area

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: ERBIL, Iraq, June 9 

 BODY:
A week after meeting two prominent Shiite leaders in the southern city of Najaf, the Kurdish leader, Massoud Barzani, gathered Iraqi opposition figures here today in Iraq's north in a show of unity that included some criticism of the American occupation.
 Representatives from the Wifaq Party and the Islamic party Al Dawa, as well as Adnan Pachachi, an independent leader, joined Mr. Barzani and the other main Kurdish leader, Jalal Talabani, here in the capital of the Kurdish region. Ethnic Kurds have lived autonomously in the area since 1991, when they won a war against Saddam Hussein. 
 The gathering of so many Arab parties here was unusual for two reasons. First, few of the parties had ever been to the Kurdish region -- the ethnic border with the rest of Iraq kept them separate from Kurds. Some parties, like Al Dawa, had not even recognized the region in the past. The visit was a nod to the growing political influence of the Kurds.
The visit also highlighted a willingness on the part of Iraqi opposition leaders to work together, at least publicly, when concerns of economy and political unity are at stake.
"The mere act of having everyone here today -- our brothers from the Arab community -- is a sign we will be working together closely," Mr. Barzani said in his speech.
There have been problems. In Kirkuk, a city and region where Mr. Hussein's Baathist Party had forced thousands of Kurds to leave their homes, tensions between Arabs and Kurds turned violent last month. Clashes left at least 12 dead.
Since then, however, political leaders of both ethnicities have called for calm and have refrained from exacerbating the already emotional situation. Also, an election in Kirkuk gave a victory to the Kurds, defusing some anger in the Kurdish community.
Today, in the Kurdish regional parliament, festooned with real and artificial flowers, Iraqi opposition leaders expressed some criticism of the American administration here and bemoaned the state of Iraq's economy.
"Indications of discontent are emerging among the population," said Abd Alelah Muslawi, of the Arab Socialist Party. "Promises given by the coalition forces have not been put into practice. Efforts at forming a national congress have evaporated." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RELIGION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); TRENDS (67%); TERRORISM (59%) KURDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); JALAL TALABANI (58%) TAVERNISE, SABRINA; BARZANI, MASSOUD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ; ERBIL (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



262 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Burmese Junta's Remedy: Crackdown 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Tuesday, June 10 

 BODY:
A brutal attack on Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and her pro-democracy supporters a week ago has put an end to a faint spring in Myanmar and signals a return to the harsh repression of the past, diplomats and political analysts say.
 As much as anything, they say, the military junta has learned that in a country where it enjoys little public support, nothing works as well as sheer force. 
 If Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's new freedom to travel and meet supporters in the last year was an experiment in conciliation by the ruling generals of the former Burma, it was a disaster for them. 
As they have in the past, they badly misjudged the public mood when they released her from 19 months of house arrest. The wildly enthusiastic crowds she drew reaffirmed her place as a political force that is apparently unstoppable by anything short of a harsh crackdown.
"They found that even though they rule with an iron hand, the people still believe in another," said Sunai Phasuk, a Thai member of the human rights group Forum Asia who is an expert on Myanmar. "People are afraid of the generals but they respect Aung San Suu Kyi."
The generals' response was to clamp down on her, and to do so with a level of brutality that served as a warning to the rest of the country.
Late on the evening of May 30, military-backed hooligans attacked her motorcade in northern Myanmar with sticks, stones, slingshots and apparently with firearms, killing perhaps scores of people.
The State Department has said that American diplomats who visited the scene said the attack was premeditated and carried out by forces supported by the government, while the Burmese government referred to it as a clash instigated by Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's supporters.
Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi and 19 of her lieutenants were detained. Around the country, scores of newly opened offices of her party, the National League for Democracy, were padlocked. A new roundup of her supporters has reportedly begun.
"If they can get away with it, this is the end of Aung San Suu Kyi, if not as a mythical figure then as a real threat to them," said Josef Silverstein, an expert on Myanmar at Rutgers University. "If people accept that she can be locked away and nobody can see her, and that other leaders can be silenced and that the party can be silenced, then they've won the day."
At the moment there are few signs of popular protest. The government has locked universities to prevent student uprisings, and the army reportedly has been placed on alert around the country.
When Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi was released from house arrest in May 2002, she was given more freedom than she had had since the junta took power in 1988 after crushing a peaceful nationwide revolt at the cost of hundreds of lives.
In 1989 she was put under house arrest, which lasted six years, and in 1990 the generals made their first great public blunder by holding free parliamentary elections. Their candidates were trounced by the National League for Democracy.
Their response to that mistake was similar to their actions now: they simply annulled the result and started imprisoning their opponents.
Fifteen years after taking power, the ruling generals are back where they started, employing the method at which they are most successful, force.
"They are back to ground zero," said Aung Zaw, the editor of a Burmese exile magazine, Irrawaddy. "There is such a deep scar, how are you going to reconcile, how are you going to heal it? This is the ugliest political violence since 1988."
This is the third time -- since 1988 and the election of 1990 -- that the generals have stepped in with force to cut short a moment of hope.
As in the past, they are hunkering down to take on the world, whatever the cost, said Mr. Sunai of Forum Asia.
International condemnation has been led by the United States, and President Bush said last week that he backed a move in Congress to toughen current economic penalties against Myanmar by cutting off virtually all imports.
Other Western nations have also protested, along with the United Nations. 
But Myanmar is banking on a different, more forgiving set of partners now -- its giant neighbors China and India as well as the Southeast Asian nations with which it shares a loose political alliance.
In public at least, none of those nations have spoken out strongly against the crackdown.
News agencies in Myanmar reported on Monday that the Chinese ambassador had told a United Nations envoy that his country considered the events there "an internal political affair."
The envoy, Razali Ismail, has met with the junta's top leaders during a five-day visit and said today that he had received permission to meet Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi at her home. She was reported to have been injured in the attack last week and has been in custody since then.
Mr. Sunai said the timing of the attack just before the envoy's visit had been deliberate, emphasizing the junta's determination to defy outside pressure.
Mr. Razali is the representative of Secretary General Kofi Annan, who spoke out strongly last week, saying the people of Myanmar were "overwhelmingly in favor of change."
Publicly, the ruling generals have closed ranks. The military intelligence chief, Gen. Khin Nyunt, who is believed to have been behind last year's softer approach, made two speeches over the weekend blaming Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi and her supporters for the violence.
In what seemed a veiled warning, the general referred to the crackdown of 1988 and said the popular uprising then showed the need to maintain law and order.
"Everyone needs to abide by the rules and regulations to be observed everywhere," he said, adding, "It is to be noted that the basic human rights would not protect those who violate an existing law." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); ARMIES (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HOUSE ARREST (69%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; PUBLIC OPINION; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS 

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%) MYDANS, SETH; AUNG SAN SUU KYI, DAW 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) MYANMAR

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



263 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: The Boeing State Fights to Build the Next Jet 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

DATELINE: EVERETT, Wash., June 4 

 BODY:
Anyone who doubts that seven is a lucky number need only visit this town on the eastern shore of Puget Sound.
 Over the course of three decades, workers at the Boeing Company's sprawling assembly plant here have sliced, drilled and welded the 747, 767 and 777 into airworthy shape. The company has always been subject to the ups and downs of the airline industry, but each new plane generally meant a round of hiring, and that in turn led to an urban and suburban boom for the entire Seattle area. 
 Luck, though, can fly off as easily as it swoops in.
The Puget Sound area and the state of Washington are now facing one of their worst nightmares -- the possibility that Boeing, its biggest employer, will move final assembly of its next wide-body jet, the 7E7, to another state. Boeing put out a call for proposals last month, asking interested states to submit by June 20 site plans and financial packages that would allow Boeing to build the plane at what it calls a competitive cost. Nearly a dozen states quickly expressed interest. 
Desperate to bring new jobs into a battered economy, government officials and business leaders here are scrambling to cobble together a proposal loaded with financial incentives. State legislators in a special session say they will try to work out favorable tax code revisions and tax relief before the session adjourns on Tuesday night. Workers have begun staging rallies next to Everett's 1,000-acre plant. Gov. Gary Locke's office says keeping Boeing's future production here is the state's "No. 1 priority at this point."
Critics say Boeing's threat is a form of corporate blackmail, a blatant attempt to spur pork-barrel legislation. The company, though, argues that it is simply looking for ways to better compete against Airbus, its growing European rival.
Boeing's search for a cheaper production site follows in the footsteps of many globe-straddling companies, as they decentralize operations to bolster their bottom lines. Like professional sports teams, companies have increasingly turned their backs on the places where they first put down roots and are playing states -- or even countries -- against each other in the hunt for incentives. 
Boeing, which has offices and plants in 26 states, shocked people here two years ago when it abruptly moved its headquarters -- and hundreds of jobs -- to Chicago, where it could distance itself from its commercial aviation arm and take advantage of big tax breaks and other incentives.
Washington has not done a financial assessment of what building the 7E7 here would mean for the economy, but Boeing estimates the project will create 800 to 1,200 assembly jobs after its start next year. Those will in turn create more jobs at local suppliers and businesses outside the aerospace industry, economists say.
"We think it's absolutely imperative that the next generation of Boeing airplanes be built in the state of Washington," Governor Locke said in an interview the day before leading a rally by the runways of Boeing Field, where Boeing has tested many of its planes. "We have all the infrastructure in place, the trained work force in place. We think it makes perfect sense, logical sense to have production here. I think clearly we're focused on the additional jobs that the 7E7 represents."
Connie Kelliher, a spokeswoman for District 751 of the International Association of Machinists, which represents 17,000 Boeing workers in the Puget Sound area, said that "these are good family-wage jobs that are not easily replaced, especially in today's economy."
Skeptics of the company's maneuverings say that states going out of their way during a time of budget shortfalls to help Boeing could end up with less than they had hoped for, because Boeing's commercial airplane business goes through big boom and bust cycles. This year, as the airline industry's worst downturn drags on, Boeing is laying off 5,000 workers -- on top of 30,000 already dismissed since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
"Any of these communities begging to produce Boeing's new planes should look at Boeing's track record," said Robert Lamb, a professor of management at the Stern School of Business at New York University who studies the aerospace industry. "Anyone wanting to take them on, thinking that they'll get a steady supply of jobs, that everything's going to be hunky-dory, they're not used to Boeing's cycle that leads to massive firing."
Indeed, John Feren, vice president for sales and marketing for the 7E7, said there was no guarantee that airlines would order the new plane, especially given the deep slump in air travel.
Skeptics like Professor Lamb also argue that Boeing is not gaining much of an economic advantage in holding a beauty contest, because the incentives that states offer will not be nearly enough to offset the subsidies given to Airbus by four European governments. In addition, they say, Boeing will find it tough to set up the kind of infrastructure and skilled work force that it already has in Washington.
Other states that have been mentioned as likely rivals to Washington include Illinois, Texas, Ohio, Virginia, South Carolina, Georgia, Arizona, Arkansas and Kansas, where Boeing builds many of its fuselages. Kansas has approved the issuing of up to $500 million in bonds to help build the plant.
Jim Pickens, director of the Arkansas Department of Economic Development, said that his office would propose three potential sites for the 7E7. Existing plants could be renovated to accommodate Boeing, he said, and the state is ready to dole out tax credits. Though officials are still in the middle of doing a cost-benefit analysis, Mr. Pickens said that "for a state the size of Arkansas, it would be huge and we consider it a mega-project for Arkansas."
Boeing has not made any specific demands of the state of Washington in relation to the 7E7 project. Last month, it released a broad list of criteria for the 7E7 site, criteria that include favorable weather and a nearby runway.
The company has indicated that it wants legislators in this state to lower the unemployment insurance tax and, to a lesser degree, to overhaul how companies contribute to the workers' compensation program.
"We want to be operating in a regulatory environment that is manufacturing-friendly," Mr. Feren said.
Chuck Cadena, a Boeing spokesman, said the company paid an average of $772 in unemployment insurance tax for each of its 54,000 workers in the state. By contrast, he said, Boeing pays $378 for a worker in California, where it has a major plant in Long Beach that assembles the 717 and various military planes. California is said to be one of the states possibly working on a 7E7 site proposal.
Governor Locke and many officials have said they agree that the unemployment insurance tax is onerous for big companies, and that the special session of the legislature convened to work out a state budget might revise the tax code on Tuesday. Some labor representatives, though, argue that the kind of changes that Boeing and other big companies are seeking will hurt certain workers who need unemployment pay.
The legislature passed a bill early last year revising the tax, but voters overturned it in a referendum last November after the construction industry and some small businesses mounted a campaign against the changes.
The first week of June, Governor Locke and some lawmakers suggested giving significant tax incentives to Boeing. State Representative Jeff Morris, a Democrat, said lawmakers want to give Boeing tax relief worth at least $100 million a year over two decades. He said the aerospace industry pays $300 million a year in state taxes, most of it from Boeing. That is equal to 2.6 percent of the state's total tax revenue, he added.
 On Monday, Governor Locke said at a news conference that he was pushing for a tax incentive package starting at a value of $28 million for the state's aerospace industry from 2003 and 2005 and going up to $120 million a year after 2007. The package would be contingent on Boeing's choosing Everett for its 7E7 assembly, and the incentives would be even greater if Boeing selected for its site Moses Lake, a small town east of the Cascades. 
Politicians are also pushing for the construction of a $16 million barge station in the bay near Everett to allow Boeing to receive larger shipments from its suppliers. Some lawmakers have suggested fast-tracking a project to widen traffic corridors that feed into Everett.
Besides those incentives, some government officials say, Everett would seem the natural choice for building the 7E7 because Boeing's plant here already has the infrastructure. In the early 1990's, the city allowed Boeing to add two assembly bays onto its main building to accommodate construction of the 777. Boeing ended up using only one bay for assembly, and the second became a storage area.
"We encouraged Boeing to build as much as possible so they would have the capacity," said Paul Roberts, director of planning and community development for the city of Everett. "The shell for the assembly system is already there."
Here at the Everett plant, work continues on orders for Boeing's three wide-body jets. A 747-400F cargo plane with a silver fuselage sits in an assembly bay, the 11th one off the line for China Airlines. On a balcony overlooking it, a small placard sums up the history of the plant: "Home of the twin-aisle long-range 747, 767, 777 wide-body jetliners, the Everett site represents Boeing to the world."
Unfortunately for Everett, many parts of the world have taken notice, and they are all too eager to do some representing of their own.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Everett, Wash., marchers held a rally at the International Association of Machinists hall urging Boeing to build its new 7E7 jet in the state. Several states may be making competing offers to draw the Boeing project. (Associated Press)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); AIRLINES (76%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (74%); RELOCATIONS (74%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (72%); SUBURBS (72%); TAX RELIEF (70%); RIOTS (60%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; PRODUCTION; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (96%); AIRBUS SAS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (59%) ;BOEING CO 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%) SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: GARY LOCKE (55%) WONG, EDWARD; LOCKE, GARY (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) WASHINGTON (STATE); PUGET SOUND

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003 



264 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: A Museum Tends the British Melting Pot 

BYLINE:  By ALAN RIDING 

DATELINE: LONDON, June 4 

 BODY:
At each end of Brick Lane in the East End of London, little plastic flags offer visitors a warm welcome to Banglatown. With its textile shops, travel agencies, restaurants and halal butchers serving a thriving community of Bangladeshi immigrants, this bustling street could well have been transplanted from the Indian subcontinent.
 But if Bangladeshis have made this Spitalfields neighborhood their own in recent years, a far older story is told at a building on a street leading off Brick Lane. Here, in what is billed as the first Museum of Immigration and Diversity in Britain, the message is that immigration to London is hardly a novelty, that for three centuries the area around Brick Lane has been a melting pot for immigrants and refugees. 
 Given the scale of immigration from Britain's former colonies since the 1960's, the museum at 19 Princelet Street is modest. Although it will be open daily during Refugee Week here, June 15 to 22, it is struggling to raise $4.8 million so that the building can be open year-round. Even in its dilapidated state, though, it is a powerful symbol of the ever-changing face of Spitalfields.
Huguenots, or French Protestants, were the first foreigners to move into the neighborhood, in the late 17th century. Among the 50,000 or so Huguenots fleeing religious persecution by Louis XIV was Peter Abraham Ogier, a silk merchant whose family was the first to occupy 19 Princelet Street in 1719. The house has remained nearly unchanged since then: even the original kitchen sink is still in place.
In the mid-19th century, with Spitalfields then favored by Jewish immigrants from Poland, Lithuania and Russia, a synagogue was added in the building's garden by its new tenant, the Loyal United Friends Friendly Society. Today, though abandoned for worship, the synagogue remains a mute witness to a Jewish community replaced by a new wave of immigrants.
The 19th century also brought Irish refugees of the potato famine, but the next big change came with the arrival of Caribbean immigrants after World War II. They were followed in the 1970's by Bangladeshis and, most recently, by a growing number of Somalis. A rare touch of traditional Britain survives at the Christ Church Spitalfields Church of England Primary School on Brick Lane, but almost all its students are the children of immigrants.
Nearby, another building represents the evolution of a neighborhood more strikingly. Built in the 18th century by Huguenots as a church called L'Eglise Neuve, it has successively housed the Society for Promoting Christianity Among Jews, a Methodist Chapel, the Great Synagogue Machzikei Hadass and, since 1976, the Jamme Masjid Mosque.
It is through this prism that the Museum of Immigration strives to recount the story of newcomers to Britain, a mission similar to that of the Lower East Side Tenement Museum, which interprets the immigrant experience in Manhattan during the 19th and early 20th centuries. For the moment, though, the Spitalfields museum's priority is more mundane: to raise money to strengthen its buckling walls and floors, some now supported by metal pillars. Even so, there are no plans to restore or modernize the building because 19 Princelet Street is itself the museum's principal exhibit. "We want to spend money where it cannot be seen," explained Susie Symes, a former British government economist who runs the museum's board of trustees.
The Ogier family's kitchen and living quarters give an idea of 18th-century domestic life, although the former synagogue is the most interesting architectural artifact: it retains its 19th-century chandeliers and an elegant balcony with paneling that carries the names of members of the local Jewish community and the money they contributed to the building's upkeep.
An aura of mystery was added to the building by "Rodinsky's Room," a book by Rachel Lichtenstein and Iain Sinclair published in 2000 (Granta). It recounts the strange life of David Rodinsky, a Jewish hermit who for decades lived in an attic room at 19 Princelet Street and who vanished suddenly in 1969. When his room was opened 11 years later it was found to contain cabalistic drawings as well as notebooks in Sumerian, Arabic, Japanese, Hebrew, Yiddish, Greek and Russian.
Rodinsky's room is closed now, but once the upper floors of the building have been made safe his refuge will become part of the museum's effort to keep alive three centuries of memory. In the meantime, a semipermanent show called "Suitcases and Sanctuary," organized two years ago, sets out to recall the poverty or repression that prompted immigrants to move to Spitalfields.
The charm of this exhibition is that it was put together by children from six local elementary schools who, for the most part, come from immigrant families. Thus Somali children wrote poems about the Irish potato famine and took part in a video in which they re-enacted Irish families traveling to Britain, while Muslim children from Bangladesh enacted a Yiddish folk tale. The story of Bengali immigration was in turn told by children from a local Roman Catholic school.
"We have proved with the exhibition that people want to visit thehouse," Ms. Symes said. "The idea is that you can take historic buildings and give them new meaning today through what they evoke. And we see that with visitors, who may be strangers but eagerly exchange ideas and experiences."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Visitors to the Museum of Immigration and Diversity in the Spitalfields section of London can write on luggage tags what they brought with them as immigrants or what they would take if suddenly forced to flee their homes. (Joel Pike/19 Princelet Street) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (73%); FAMINE (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (64%); WORLD WAR II (50%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF IMMIGRATION AND DIVERSITY (LONDON) 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); ENGLAND (79%); LITHUANIA (73%) GREAT BRITAIN; LONDON (ENG)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



265 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Nokia Warns of Lower Sales, Blaming Economy and SARS 

BYLINE:  By HEATHER TIMMONS 

DATELINE: LONDON, June 10 

 BODY:
Nokia, the world's biggest maker of mobile phones, warned today that its second-quarter phone sales could be below forecasts because of economic weakness in the United States and Europe, currency fluctuations and the impact of SARS in China.
 It was the latest in a series of cautions over sales growth the company has issued in the last two years. The industry has weakened as consumers hesitate to buy new phones with features like cameras and color screens, while wireless operators have been slow to introduce services that generate demand for such phones. 
 Still, Nokia, based in Espoo, Finland, has had a knack for weathering slumps and setbacks. Today, the company affirmed that it would meet its target for earnings in the quarter, and its shares fellmodestly.
The scheduled mid-quarter update came a day after one of Nokia's chief rivals, Motorola, warned that it would fall short of sales and profit forecasts for the quarter and the year, citing weakening demand in Asia because of SARS.
China is an important market for phone makers, but the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome has scared off potential shoppers. Motorola has about 14 percent of the Chinese mobile phone market, while Nokia has less than 10 percent. 
"The upgrade market has been subdued, especially in China," Nokia's chief financial officer, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, said in a conference call today. "To what extent this is impacted by SARS is pretty difficult to verify."
Mr. Kallasvuo was more upbeat about the United States market, where Nokia had been losing market share. "There is substantial gain there, and that is driven really by the production introductions we have had there and good success there," he said.
Shares of Nokia fell 1.7 percent, to close at 14.95 euros in trading in Helsinki. On the New York Stock Exchange, its American depository receipts -- each representing one share of the Finnish company -- fell 1.4 percent, to $17.71. Motorola, meanwhile, slipped 8 cents, to $8.60, after falling 2.4 percent on Monday.
Another rival, Ericsson of Sweden, rose nearly 5 percent, to 8.75 kronor in Stockholm trading.
"Nokia is providing some relief," Rob van Oostveen, of ABN Amro Asset Management, told Reuters. "After Motorola, investors were concerned Nokia would disappoint, and although Nokia can't shrug off the dollar and China, it's managing the effects well." 
Nokia now expects that mobile phone sales could grow 4 percent or less in second quarter. Analysts had estimated phone sales would grow 4 to 12 percent in that period, based on company guidance. At the same time, market share in the mobile phone division is expected to rise from the first quarter, when it was 38 percent. 
Second-quarter sales at Nokia Networks, the company's infrastructure provider, are expected to drop as much as 5 percent from 6.9 billion euros ($8.1 billion) a year ago, the company said.
The drop reflects the fact that "operators in all major regions continue to decrease their investments," Nokia said. The drop is less than the 13 percent that analysts estimated, Merrill Lynch noted in a report issued today.
Nokia also confirmed second-quarter pro forma earnings predictions of 0.13 to 0.16 euro (15 to 19 cents), which includes a 350 million to 400 million euro charge ($409 million to $468 million) for a restructuring. In April, the company said it would eliminate 1,800 jobs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nokia announced in April that it would be eliminating 1,800 jobs as part of a restructuring plan devised in response to a series of losses. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); SARS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (90%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); SALES & SELLING (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (76%); MARKET SHARE (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (59%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; SALES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SARS (SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME); CURRENCY 

COMPANY: NOKIA CORP (94%); TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (84%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); FORTIS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT UK LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NOKIA 

TICKER: NOK1V (HEL) (94%); NOK1V (BIT) (94%); NOK (NYSE) (94%); ERIC.B (STO) (84%); ERIC.A (STO) (84%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (84%); MSI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: TIMMONS, HEATHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (67%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (57%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); FINLAND (91%); ASIA (78%); SWEDEN (67%) EUROPE; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



266 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Japan Detains 2 North Korean Ships, Part of Pressure Strategy 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 10 

 BODY:
Japan detained two North Korean cargo ships in Japanese ports today, moves that North Korea denounced as sanctions and that Japan defended as safety inspections.
 "We are ready to thoroughly inspect all North Korean vessels at ports across the country," Chikage Ogi, Japan's transport minister, said at a news conference, hours before her inspectors scoured the North Korean ships for violations. 
 The detentions were ordered a day after Bush administration officials said they were encouraging allies to put pressure on North Korean shipping by enforcing safety rules and searching for illegal drugs, a major North Korean export. The policy is part of a broader effort to force North Korea into negotiating an end to its nuclear bomb program. 
Inspectors worked all day in Maizuru, a western Japan port that last year received about one-quarter of the 1,344 calls to all Japanese ports by 147 North Korean ships. After the inspections, Maizuru transport ministry officials ordered the detention of the Namsan 3, a 298-ton freighter, until its North Korean crew of 16 could fix three major safety violations: lack of charts of surrounding seas, a hole in its bulkhead, and a doorsill to the cabin that was too low to prevent water from flooding in.
Farther north, at Otaru port in Hokkaido, northern Japan, local transport officials ordered the detention for safety violations of the 178-ton Daehungrason 2, which was carrying a cargo of crabs.
During the last decade, several North Korean freighters have become stranded along Japan's coast. Invariably, the state company owners have walked away from the shipwrecks, refusing to pay fines or to remove the hulks.
The detentions today came after North Korean authorities suspended the country's lone ferry link with Japan to protest the new safety inspection policy. North Korea's state-run press denounced the inspections.
"If this is part of 'sanctions' against the D.P.R.K., we cannot but regard it as a very serious development," the official Korean Central News Agency said, using the initials of North Korea's formal name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
It called the policy "part of the Bush administration's foolish and shameful moves to ostracize the D.P.R.K. politically and morally on the international arena and isolate and stifle it by terming it a 'rogue state.' "
But for Japan, the largest economy in the region, North Korea's hostility only serves to strengthen the political standing at home of Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi. A survey by NHK public television broadcast on Monday evening showed that 59 percent of voters supported Mr. Koizumi's two-year-old government, up five percentage points from a poll in May.
While the United States and Japan are tightening a maritime noose on North Korea, China and South Korea seem increasingly neutral.
"Under the present circumstances, both sides should avoid taking measures which are likely to escalate the situation on the Korean peninsula," China's Foreign Ministry spokesman, Kong Quan, told reporters in Beijing today.
South Korea plans on Saturday to ceremonially mark the renewal of rail and road links with the North. Freight trains should be traveling from Seoul to Pyongyang by the end of September, Cho Myoung-gyon, a senior official at South Korea's Unification Ministry, said in a radio interview today. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (74%); FERRIES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); TERRORISM (69%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (55%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (74%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



267 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
Travel Slump Makes Prices Right for Hotel Buyers

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
Of the 282 hotels in the United States that fly the Sheraton or Four Points by Sheraton flag, only one in six is actually owned by Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide Inc., the company that controls the Sheraton brand and several other well-known hotel trademarks.
 With the lodging industry experiencing its worst slump in four decades, according to a report issued this month by PricewaterhouseCoopers, the proportion of hotels that Starwood owns as well as operates is expected to decrease. The buyers are private investors taking advantage of favorable interest rates and greatly reduced prices. 
 Like several other publicly traded hotel companies, Starwood is pruning its inventory, trying to shed hotels in suburban and other so-called secondary markets that it does not consider part of its core real estate strategy. 
Last month, it announced that it was selling 14 hotels, including 8 Sheratons and 2 Westins, to a group of four private investment companies -- Olympus Real Estate Partners, Rockwood Capital Advisors, Prudential Real Estate Investors and HEI Hospitality -- for $312 million. Starwood, which is based in White Plains, has sold several of its European hotels and is negotiating with CNL Hospitality Partners, a closely held company in Orlando, Fla., to divest itself of four additional properties, said Ted Darnall, the president of the Starwood Real Estate Group.
After two years of occupancy rates below 60 percent, many hotel companies are struggling under heavy debt loads. Selling off expendable properties gives them cash to reduce debt and to buy properties that are more in line with their business strategy. In its last quarterly earnings report, Starwood said it had $5.2 billion in net debt, compared with $5.1 billion at the end of 2002. Starwood has a Ba1 rating from Moody's Investors Service and was recently downgraded from BBB- to BB+ by Standard & Poor's. The current ratings are considered below investment grade.
The portfolio sold by Starwood mainly included properties in suburban markets like Stamford, Conn., and Danvers, Mass. Mr. Darnall said that his company had spent an average of $6.5 million per hotel on improvements since 1999, and that the properties had fairly stable earnings over the past few years. The stability made them expendable, he said.
"They didn't have as much recovery upside as most of the others in our portfolio," he said. "We think there's an opportunity for us to use that capital a little better." The company's strategy calls for owning hotels in larger urban areas, he said.
The new owners of the Starwood properties will bring in their own management company, Smilezzzz Hospitality, a subsidiary of HEI Hospitality, but the Sheratons and Westins in the deal will remain under those banners as Starwood franchises. 
Hotel companies want their reach to be as broad as possible, said Daniel H. Lesser, managing director of Cushman & Wakefield's hospitality and gaming group. "The name of the game," he said, "is having distribution -- varying hotel products at different price points in different places where travelers go."
Hotel industry experts say that companies do not necessarily sacrifice quality control by franchising, because the owners are required to maintain standards and periodically upgrade the properties. "Usually the franchise agreement is pretty restrictive," said Thomas McConnell, a senior managing director at Insignia/ESG Hotel Partners. "So they are having their cake and eating it, too." 
Mr. McConnell advised another hotel company, Wyndham International of Dallas, when it sold 13 properties for $447.7 million late last year to Sunstone Hotel Investors and Westbrook Hotel Partners IV. Sunstone, a former real estate investment trust, became a private company in 1999.
In its recent report, PricewaterhouseCoopers said that demand for hotel rooms had risen slightly since the end of the war in Iraq. The report said the increase would continue, but it predicted that averagedaily room rates would not show a real increase, adjusted for inflation, until 2005. And even then, revenues per available room would be at 1995 levels, it said.
Most other analysts are less pessimistic, said Robert I. Bowers Jr., a senior vice president at Smith Travel Research in Hendersonville, Tenn. "A lot of people agree that there will be some improvement in '04," Mr. Bowers said.
Gary Mendell, the chief executive of HEI Hospitality, one of the partners in the Starwood deal, said the occupancy rate for the hotels in that portfolio was slightly more than 60 percent. "Our assumption going forward," he said, "is that when the industry starts improving it will not improve to the same level as before."
Nevertheless, Mr. Mendell said the Starwood properties were attractive because they were in good locations near prime office buildings. He said the company expected to hold on to the hotels for three to eight years until they became more profitable.
In the latest wave of hotel trading, not all the sellers have been branded hotel corporations. Hotel real estate investment trusts, which do not offer franchises or management contracts, are also feeling pressure to sell some of their properties. 
In February, FelCor Lodging Trust, a REIT based in Irvington, Tex., announced plans to dispose of 33 hotels; 2 Hampton Inns, in Moline, Ill., and Davenport, Iowa, were sold last week to a buyer that FelCor, at the purchaser's request, declined to identify.
And last month, CNL Hospitality Partners announced that it would buy RFS Hotel Investors, another REIT, for $383 million in cash and the assumption of $304 million in debt. The deal will add 57 hotels to CNL's portfolio. Arthur Adler, a managing director of Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels, which offers brokerage and consulting services for the hospitality industry, said REITs were giving up properties to raise cash.
"A lot of these REITs have debt coming due," said Mr. Adler, who is representing FelCor in the sale of Doubletree Guest Suites in Dayton and Columbus, Ohio, and Embassy Suites hotels at the Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport and in Flagstaff, Ariz., and Syracuse, "and they want to demonstrate to the market through their ability to sell assets that they can raise capital."
Despite the hotel industry's poor near-term prospects, private buyers are beginning to take advantage of low interest rates and a drop in prices. Until recently, said William B. Murney, a senior vice president and lodging and hospitality specialist at CB Richard Ellis, few better-quality hotels were up for sale. "There's a lot of pent-up demand in the market," he said.
In 1998, said Patrick H. Ford, the president of Lodging Econometrics, a brokerage and research company in Portsmouth, N.H., there were 575 transactions involving hotels, and the average selling price per room was $88,902. Last year, only 367 sales took place, for an average price of $69,237 a room.
Luxury-hotel prices have declined more slowly, Mr. Ford said. The peak was in 1999, when 11 high-end properties changed hands, at an average price of $385,000 a room. Last year, when there were only 6 such transactions, and the average price was $330,000 a room, he said.
"There's not a lot that come to market," Mr. Ford said. "These represent long-term real estate investments, and the people in them generally ride out the operating ups and downs."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK -- One Company, Many Flags"Starwood owns six hotel brands. Some of the hotels are owned by Starwood, some are managed by the company and others are operated by franchise holders, as indicated in the breakdown of domestic hotels below. SheratonOwned (ROOMS): 15,868Managed (ROOMS): 20,897Franchised (ROOMS): 30,371 WestinOwned (ROOMS): 11,201Managed (ROOMS): 17,246Franchised (ROOMS): 4,413 Four Points by SheratonOwned (ROOMS): 1,138Managed (ROOMS): 2,853Franchised (ROOMS): 14,967 Luxury Collection*Owned (ROOMS): 654Managed (ROOMS): 1,524Franchised (ROOMS): 351 St. RegisOwned (ROOMS): 997Managed (ROOMS): 697Franchised (ROOMS): -- W HotelsOwned (ROOMS): 4,378Managed (ROOMS): 752Franchised (ROOMS): -- *Individual hotels including the Palace Hotel in San Francisco, the Phoenician in Scottsdale, Ariz., and the Kapalua Bay Hotel in Maui. Graph also shows number of hotels owned, managed and franchised. (Source: Starwood Hotels) Chart: "Data Update"New privately owned housing units authorized by building permits, not seasonally adjusted, through April. Graph tracks regional units, measured in thousands, since 2000. NATIONAL IN THOUSANDS APR. '02: 154.5FEB. '03: 124.2MAR. '03: 143.5APR. '03: 161.8 (Source: U.S. Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); REAL ESTATE (91%); RESORTS (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (86%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); LODGING (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SUBURBS (69%); FRANCHISEES (60%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (91%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (65%); HEI HOSPITALITY LLC (58%); REAL ESTATE INVESTORS PLC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); OLYMPUS REAL ESTATE CORP (56%); ROCKWOOD CAPITAL LLC (56%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%) STARWOOD HOTELS AND RESORTS WORLDWIDE 

TICKER: HOT (NYSE) (91%); RLE (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (91%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (58%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (56%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (50%)

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



268 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Flooding of S. Dakota Mine Stalls Plans for Laboratory 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH CHANG 

 BODY:
Severely hurting the chances of turning a former gold mine in South Dakota into an underground laboratory, the owner of the mine yesterday turned off its pumps, allowing water to begin accumulating in tunnels 8,000 feet below the surface.
 South Dakota congressmen met with the owners of the Homestake mine on Monday but failed to persuade them to keep the pumps going. 
 Workers severed the electrical connections yesterday, and after some tidying up will retreat to the mine's 5,000-foot level today, said Vincent Borg, a spokesman for the Barrick Gold Corporation of Toronto, which owns Homestake. 
Within days, the water, accumulating at 500 gallons a minute, will render one of the hoists inoperable and make the lower reaches of the mine inaccessible.
Scientists who proposed turning Homestake into a deep underground laboratory for an array of particle physics, geology and biology research said they would try to conduct their experiments at other underground laboratories in Japan, Canada or Europe, and look to build a laboratory elsewhere in the United States.
"I would not say it's dead," John F. Wilkerson, a physics professor at the University of Washington, said of the laboratory proposal for Homestake. "I would say as the water seeps in, its life seeps away."
Dr. Wilkerson and the other scientists working on the proposal will finish the engineering plans, including proposed layouts and detailed explanations of the experiments they would like to conduct, for the National Science Foundation in the next few weeks. Once finished with those plans, which cost about $100,000 to produce, the scientists will probably not do any further work.
Barrick officials said they supported converting Homestake into a laboratory and were willing to donate the mine to the state. However, because financing for a laboratory is at least two years away, they say it is more economical to let the mine flood now and to empty it later.
Pumping alone costs $250,000 a month, but Barrick officials said that keeping the mine open would require $50 million to $75 million of improvements to antiquated infrastructure. Emptying a flooded mine would cost about $15 million, they said.
The scientists estimated the cost of maintaining the mine at $5 million to $6 million for infrastructure improvements, but $30 million to $40 million for emptying a flooded mine.
At the meeting on Monday, the congressmen asked Barrick officials to devise a framework that would address their liability concerns and make the donation possible. The officials agreed, but did not specify how long that would take.
"I think it'll be a matter of months before things will take their shape and form, and people will be able to work on issues and start to resolve them and move forward," Mr. Borg said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MINING (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (87%); PHYSICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); SCIENCE FUNDING (74%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%) SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; GOLD; HOMESTAKE MINE (SOUTH DAKOTA); RESEARCH; MINES AND MINING 

COMPANY: BARRICK GOLD CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%) BARRICK GOLD CORP 

TICKER: ABX (TSX) (84%); ABX (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (84%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (84%) SIC1041 GOLD ORES; 

PERSON: CHANG, KENNETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (96%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (70%) SOUTH DAKOTA

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



269 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Agency Drops Out Of Subway Review

BYLINE:  By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
Euro RSCG MVBMS in New York withdrew yesterday from a review for the creative and strategic planning parts of the account of Subway Restaurants, thereby giving up assignments the agency had handled since March 2000. Although billings were not disclosed, Subway spent $218.6 million to advertise in major media last year, according to TNS Media Intelligence/CMR, part of Taylor Nelson Sofres. 
 Euro RSCG MVBMS is part of a division of Euro RSCG Worldwide, a unit of Havas. The agency decided that its approach was "in contrast to what Subway is looking for from an agency partner," said its president, John Berg. 
 The withdrawal leaves eight agencies in the review. Three are units of the Partnership division of the Interpublic Group of Companies: Deutsch in New York, Lowe & Partners Worldwide in New York and the Martin Agency in Richmond, Va. The others are Fallon Worldwide in Minneapolis, part of the Publicis Groupe; Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group; McCarthy Mambro Bertino in Boston, which is creating a spot for Subway on a project basis, separate from the review; Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore.; and one agency that has not been identified.
Joanne Davis Consulting in New York is helping manage the review, which is being overseen by the Subway Franchisee Advertising Fund Trust. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); FRANCHISEES (73%) ACCOUNT CHANGES 

COMPANY: EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (92%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%); HAVAS SA (58%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (57%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (56%); FALLON WORLDWIDE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SUBWAY RESTAURANTS; EURO RSCG MVBMS PARTNERS 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (91%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (84%); HAV (PAR) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (68%); MINNESOTA, USA (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



270 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Union Questions Tax Breaks For Wall St. Building's Owner 

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
Is 45 Wall Street an office tower, or an apartment building?
 In the latest chapter of the building's complicated history, a janitors' union has filed a complaint with the city claiming that the building's owners are unfairly receiving tax breaks for the 28-story tower, which originally contained offices, then was converted to apartments, then was converted back to commercial space, and now is being reconverted into residences. 
 The union is questioning the special tax breaks for which the building qualified after its initial conversion to residential use in the mid-1990's. The incentives are used to encourage developers to build more apartments in the financial district. 
The union claims that after an agreement was reached in 2001 to sell the building to the city as part of a doomed $1.4 billion project to build a new stock exchange, the owner -- Rockrose Development Corporation -- continued to benefit from the residential property tax breaks even as it was receiving up to $1 million a month from the city to keep the building vacant. 
"There's a double dip going on," said John P. Hamill, deputy communications director for the union, Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union, which has tangled with Rockrose over the company's practice of not hiring union janitors for some of its residential buildings in Manhattan. "In these gloomy economic times, when the city is closing firehouses and laying off workers, the idea that people are being paid twice for keeping a building empty is troubling."
The complaint, filed by the union last Thursday, is an administrative action permitted in the regulations governing the city's 421-g tax incentive program, and not a court proceeding. 
Kevin P. Singleton, senior vice president at Rockrose, declined to discuss the complaint or the tax incentives, citing a confidentiality agreement with city officials, but he called the union's document "another strong-arm tactic" by the union to harass the company. 
Carol Abrams, a spokeswoman for the Department of Housing, Preservation and Development, said that if the city decides the tax benefits were awarded inappropriately, "we will revoke them, and we will do so retroactively." 
Rockrose bought 45 Wall Street in 1996 and spent $75 million converting the office tower into about 435 apartments.
Under the 421-g program, which was intended to bring round-the-clock activity to Manhattan's financial district, commercial buildings converted to residences in the downtown area qualify for property tax breaks that last 14 years. 
When the New York Stock Exchange threatened to move to Jersey City in 1998, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani put together a huge deal to demolish several buildings and build a new trading floor for the stock exchange, topped by a 50-story office tower. Critics complained about the mayor's plan to give $1 billion in public subsidies to retain an institution unlikely to leave New York.
Although some tenants had just settled in, Rockrose struck a deal in 2001 to sell 45 Wall Street to the city for about $160 million, and emptied the building. 
After the Sept. 11 terror attack, enthusiasm for the new stock exchange waned and the project eventually died. The city returned the property to Rockrose and the company is again renting apartments there, offering up to two months free rent with a two-year lease. 
The city will continue paying up to $1 million a month until 95 percent of the 435 apartments are leased. Mr. Singleton said 90 percent of the apartments have been taken. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); CITIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MAYORS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); CLOSINGS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ROCKROSE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (69%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (69%) SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & LAND DEVELOPMENT; 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



271 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1570 words

HEADLINE: Governor Supports Rare Guarantees For Syracuse Mall 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 10 

 BODY:
For the last few years, as a developer trying to build the nation's largest mall has touted its capacity to transform the upstate economy, there has been a nagging question about who would finance the ambitious project.
 A year ago, the developer, Robert J. Congel, one of the founders of the Pyramid mall empire, insisted Wall Street would back his dream of an oversized shopping center and resort on a patch of derelict lakefront land in Syracuse. But now executives in his company say finding private investors to underwrite the whole $2.2 billion project will be difficult, and they have mounted a massive lobbying campaign to persuade the Legislature that state taxpayers should guarantee bonds for a large part of it. 
 The developer has won some crucial support, starting with that of Gov. George E. Pataki, who supports Mr. Congel's concept of guaranteeing about $1.5 billion worth of bonds for the project with property tax rebates the developer is entitled to receive under the state's Empire Zone program, the governor's aides said. 
If such a plan were enacted, as Mr. Congel wants, it would be the first time state funds meant to reimburse struggling businesses for property taxes were used as collateral for bonds, a financing plan some critics say amounts to a special gift for Mr. Congel.
Mr. Pataki said today he had yet to reach an agreement with the Senate and Assembly about the details of a bill. But he stressed that the gargantuan DestiNY USA project is too important to central New York's struggling economy not to be built, even if it means creating a unique financing mechanism for Mr. Congel.
That is the message that Mr. Congel's lobbyists, among them several close political advisers to the governor, have delivered to legislators. 
"The Destiny project would be a tremendous project for central New York and for all of upstate," Mr. Pataki said. "It would be thousands and thousands of new jobs that we really, truly need. But we want to make sure it's done in a way where the taxpayers of the state are protected and done in a way where we don't create precedents that couldn't be applied to other projects as we go forward as well."
Critics of the bill Mr. Congel has proposed, however, say the state and local governments have already given the project enough help. Last year, the Syracuse Common Council and the Onondaga County Legislature voted to forgive local property taxes on the project for the next 30 years. Under the agreement, an amount equal to the unpaid taxes would also be earmarked to back bonds for the mall.
Local officials also asked Governor Pataki to include the entire project site, about 800 acres, within the tax-free Empire Zone, a request he approved in October. Because of that inclusion, Mr. Congel's partnership, in essence, would be reimbursed for property taxes it will never pay.
Some lawmakers question why Mr. Congel now needs the state to pledge the Empire Zone payments as collateral for bonds if it has already pledged the local property taxes. They also point out that the developer has yet to lay out a definitive plan for what he intends to build, and has not produced agreements with major tenants, even as he is lining up borrowing to cover more than half the projected costs of the project.
"It's the biggest public relations push in the world, but nothing changes the deal and the deal is simply not a favorable deal for the taxpayers," said Senator John A. DeFrancisco, a Republican from Syracuse, who has been one of the most outspoken critics of the project.
Senator DeFrancisco and other critics charge the latest version of the legislation being circulated by Mr. Congel's lobbyists is designed in such a way that the company could even use the borrowed money to pay for items like the multimillion-dollar bonuses that mall developers use to entice large department stores to sign leases.
They say the bill, as drafted, would also let the borrowed money go to pay off Mr. Congel's $265 million first mortgage on the property, where he has already constructed a smaller shopping mall, the Carousel Center. That, too was done with the help of extensive property tax breaks from local government.
But Michael J. Lorenz, a senior executive in the Destiny partnership, denied that the company has any intention to use the funds in those ways. He said the main purpose of the legislation Mr. Congel has requested is to give bondholders assurances that the tax incentives will continue in the future, even if the Legislature dismantles the Empire Zone program. 
He added that the company has committed itself to borrowing $1 billion and building at least 3.2 million square feet before it would receive any payments from the state under the Empire Zone program. "The commitment is to spend $1 billion on new projects and improvements," he said during a break from lobbying today. "It's never been our goal to take our billion and use it for other purposes."
Mr. Congel and his partners have spared no expense on lobbying, enlisting some of the governor's closest political allies in recent months to help push the legislation. Among the lobbyists on his payroll are Alfonse M. D'Amato, the former United States senator; John O'Mara, a former judge; Kieran Mahoney, who is the governor's top political consultant; and Thomas Doherty, a former secretary of appointments to the governor, according to state lobbying commission reports. He has spent more than $100,000 on these lobbyists over the last two years.
Mr. Mahoney's brother, Frank Mahoney, also has a stake in the project, since he is the chief underwriter at Lehman Brothers who will be marketing the bonds, issued by the Syracuse Industrial Development Corporation.
The developer also hired Patricia Lynch, a former senior aide to Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, to help him gain the support of the Assembly Democrats. Ms. Lynch has been paid $311,000 in the last two years.
Mr. Congel, who became wealthy through his Pyramid Management Company, which holds a controlling interest in more than 20 major shopping malls in the Northeast, has been a big donor to both Democrats and Republicans over the years. He personally gave more than $31,000 to Mr. Pataki's re-election campaign over the last two years, and members of his family gave an additional $6,000, according to campaign finance reports.
He, his companies and family members gave an additional $20,000 to the Republican minority in the Assembly and $30,000 to former Assembly Minority Leader John Faso, the Republican candidate for comptroller last year and a close ally of the governor. In December 2001, Mr. Congel donated $10,000 to Mr. Silver's special campaign fund for protecting Democratic incumbents, too.
The developer has mounted a television advertising campaign, as well, in Syracuse and Albany, claiming the giant mall, stadium and theater complex he intends to build on the shore of Onondaga Lake will be a tourist destination. The developer portrays the complex as the last best hope for a city that has failed to create new jobs for years.
"This is a great project," said Mark Chadderdon, a spokesman for Mr. Congel. "You are not going to find someone else investing this kind of money and this kind of passion to revitalize a region."
Frank Mahoney, of Lehman Brothers, said the intent of the legislation Mr. Congel is advocating is to take the revenue stream from the state, which would go on for the next 14 years, and borrow money against it up front to pay for the construction.
One unusual aspect of the proposal is that the amount of the property tax rebate would rise depending on the amount borrowed, not the value of what is built, as it normally does under the Empire Zone program.
That means Mr. Congel's group would be able to depend on about $52 million a year from the state to guarantee the bonds, starting in 2007. That would be in addition to at least $9 million annually the partnership would get in tax incentives from the local governments. The partners will also put up the equity in the existing mall, about $170 million, as well as its cash flow, to secure the bonds, Mr. Lorenz said.
"Nobody wants to be the first money in," he said. "With this bill it's a lot more likely we will get the other participants interested and to commit to meet the other needs of the project, which could exceed $2 billion."
Some lawmakers are skeptical. They point out that Mr. Congel's project seems to be a moving target, its outlines changing from month to month, year to year. The draft legislation specifies the project as only 3.2 million square feet and income-producing, Senator DeFrancisco said. "It's a guarantee of $50 million a year for a project to be named later," he said.
Mr. Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, has expressed general support for the project, but he has not declared support for a particular bill or any financing plan, his aides said.
Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the leader of the Republican majority in the Senate, said today he had many reservations about Mr. Congel's proposal, including whether the state couldbe obligated to pay off bonds if the project fails. "There are a lot of questions that are still unanswered about Destiny," Mr. Bruno said.
In Syracuse, however, Mr. Congel has widespread support among many elected officials, business leaders, minority contractors and clergy members. "Congel's a big booster for Syracuse," said Senator Nancy Lorraine Hoffman, a Republican from the region.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 21, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on June 11 about a lobbying effort to have the New York State Legislature guarantee bonds to encourage investment in the DestiNY USA shopping mall project near Syracuse misattributed a quotation. It was Frank Mahoney of Lehman Brothers, the underwriter of the bonds -- not Michael J. Lorenz, a senior executive in the Destiny partnership -- who said: "Nobody wants to be the first money in" and "With this bill it's a lot more likely we will get the other participants interested and to commit to meet the other needs of the project, which could exceed $2 billion." 
Also because of an editing error, the article referred imprecisely to the amount the developer would pledge to back the bonds. It is based on the square footage of the project, not on the tax payments that were waived in an agreement with local governments.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The new DestiNY USA mall would include the Carousel Center mall, at rear, and vacant land around it in Syracuse. (Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Michael J. Lorenz, a senior executive of the partnership that is seeking to build a mega-mall in Syracuse, at the Capitol in Albany. The developers are seeking to have the state guarantee bonds to finance the project. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); RETAILERS (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%); TRENDS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); COUNTIES (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); JOB CREATION (61%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PROPERTY TAXES 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; CONGEL, ROBERT J 

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; SYRACUSE (NY); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



272 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Britain: Steady Quarter At Cadbury 

BYLINE:  Dow Jones/AP 

 BODY:
 Cadbury Schweppes, one of the world's largest soft drink producers and a leading maker of sweets, said earnings in the first half of the year were unchanged because of poor market conditions, particularly in the beverages market in the United States and the Asia-Pacific region. Cadbury said its Americas Beverages division, which accounts for about 70 percent of sales, would be "modestly" ahead of last year, but that it had been affected by poor weather and weak consumer spending. 
Its drink brands include Dr Pepper, 7Up and Red Fusion. The chief executive of Cadbury Schweppes, Todd Stitzer, said earnings had made progress in the first six months of the year, but that growth was offset by the cost of acquisitions.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (91%); SOFT DRINKS (91%); BEVERAGE MFG (90%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (90%); SOFT DRINK MFG (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CONSUMER SPENDING (67%); EXECUTIVES (52%) SOFT DRINKS 

COMPANY: CADBURY LTD (90%)

ORGANIZATION: CADBURY SCHWEPPES PLC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (90%)

PERSON: TODD STITZER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (87%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (75%) FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



273 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 67 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Teacher of the Year

 BODY:
 An economics teacher at Edward R. Murrow High School in Brooklyn, SHELDON MELTZNER, has been named Junior Achievement's 2003 National Teacher of the Year. He is the first New York teacher to receive the award, which includes a $2,000 cash prize. "Under his direction, students have seen the light and leave with a better understanding of our economic system," said SAUL BRUCKNER, Murrow's principal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



274 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 NYTimes.com Digital 

SECTION: Section 0; Column 0; NYTimes.com Digital; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Corrections to Articles by Jayson Blair 

 BODY:
Editors' Note 
 On May 11 The Times published an extensive report about plagiarism and fabrications by Jayson Blair before his resignation as a reporter for The Times a week earlier. The detailed account centered on articles written during and after October, when Mr. Blair began receiving national assignments. An editors' note with that account said The Times would continue spot-checking Mr. Blair's earlier articles and invited readers to report any discrepancies to retrace@nytimes.com. 
 Ten additional articles by Mr. Blair have since been found to include misstatements or possibly borrowed passages, or quotations that have been denied by the speaker to whom they were attributed. The list is online today and will remain accessible for the next week. The corrective notes will be appended to the affected articles in The Times's online databases. 
 'Chief in Sniper Case Considers a Job Change' 
 March 22, 2003
 Mr. Blair wrote that Charles A. Moose, the police chief in Montgomery County, Md., served in the Air National Guard at Langley Air Force Base in Virginia. He served at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland. (The same error appeared in an article by Mr. Blair on March 21, 2003.)
 'The Pen Is Mightier; X-Ray Vision Is Needed to Find Black Superheroes' 
 May 5, 2002 
 In this article about black comic book heroes, Mr. Blair appears to have used material from an article published several weeks earlier in Metro Times, an alternative weekly newspaper in Detroit. For example, in The Metro Times, Sarah Klein, a staff writer, quoted Kenjji, an African-American creator of comic books, as saying, 'I collected comics as a kid, but I was consistently disappointed, because I didn't find myself represented.' Mr. Blair wrote that Kenjji said, 'I collected comics as a kid, but I was constantly disappointed by the fact that I did not find myself represented.' 
 Mr. Blair includes quotations and paraphrases from Kenjji throughout the article. Kenjji's manager and partner, Kito S. Jumanne, said in a telephone interview that Mr. Blair did not interview Kenjji.
 'Healthy Skepticism andthe Marketing of AIDS' 
 Aug. 5, 2001 
 Mr. Blair appears to have borrowed from a series of passages in an article about the same subject written five years earlier by Amanda Bennett and Anita Sharpe in The Wall Street Journal. In one instance, Mr. Blair wrote, 'In 1987, for example, the federal government decided to blitz the American people with a frightening message: anyone could get AIDS. In their article of May 1, 1996, Ms. Bennett and Ms. Sharpe wrote, 'In the summer of 1987, federal health officials made the fateful decision to bombard the public with a terrifying message: Anyone could get AIDS.' 
 'Staten Island Residents Fight Relocated Power Plant's Start' 
 July 7, 2001
 The article misstated the date of a court hearing on the residents' complaint that the power authority built a mini-power plant too close to a residential neighborhood. The hearing was held on May 8, 2001, not July 7. 
 'The Dreams of Webzines Fizzle Out; Online Magazines Scramble for Readers and Ads' 
 March 9, 2001
 In this article about the declining fortunes of online magazines, Mr. Blair quoted Michael Hirschorn, then editor in chief of Inside.com, a Web site, since closed, for news media and entertainment industry professionals. Mr. Hirschorn said in a recent interview that although the quotations were accurate, they came from an interview conducted about five months earlier for an article with a different premise: on Internet companies that were working. That article never appeared. When approached by Mr. Blair in early March for another article, Mr. Hirschorn said, he declined to be interviewed, because by that point his company, like many other new-media firms, was struggling. 
 'Silicon Valley Investors Cool to Silicon Alley' 
 March 16, 2001, 
 In this article about the struggles of Internet entrepreneurs in obtaining funds,Mr. Blair quoted Benjamin I. Goldhagen, founder and former chief executive of Redtop, as saying, 'The way races work, is that sometime along the way it's going to be painful. But you just have to say that it's O.K., it's painful, but you got to keep going to finish the race.' But this is nearly impossible.' Mr. Goldhagen said that he did not say 'But this is nearly impossible.'
 'Bugs in Silicon Alley, and Some Can Crawl; New-Economy Tenants Cope with an Old Building's Troubles' 
 Feb. 16, 2001
 In this article, about tenants' complaints at the Starrett-Lehigh Building on the West Side of Manhattan, Michael Hirschorn of Inside.com is quoted as having said, 'I don't think that anyone thought this was going to be Fifth Avenue, but we thought that the basic functions of the building would be in order.' Mr. Hirschorn says that although he was interviewed by Mr. Blair, he did not make that comment. 
 'The Coolest of Months, So It Seems' 
 April 29, 2000
 In this article, about unseasonably cool weather in April, 2000, Mr. Blair quoted Edmund Florimont, the owner of Fantasy Island Amusement Park in Beach Haven, N.J., as saying, 'All that unexpected cold weather and rain set back the fabricating of the steel by at least five weeks' and 'Weather plays a big role when you're dealing with construction, steel, concrete. You have to realize that you're not in control.'
 In a recent telephone interview, Mr. Florimont said: 'I would never make a comment that the weather held us back. Any one who has an amusement park is used to working in inclement weather in the wintertime. Weather is never a factor.' He also said, 'I've never had to fabricate steel.'
 Mr. Blair also said of Nancy Broe, a co-owner of A Horse Drawn Affair, then a carriage-ride business in Dutchess County, 'On a typical day, she would be carting around Girl Scout troops, 4-H groups and schoolchildren on her family farm.' 
 Ms. Broe said in a recent interview that her business typically catered to couples and that 'we very rarely did kids.' She said she recalls no 4-H or school groups, and only one Girl Scout troop. 
 'Tire Recall Brings Some Panic and a Large Need for Patience' 
 Aug. 11, 2000
 In this article about consumer reaction to the recall of Firestone tires, Mr. Blair appears to have made incorrect use of reporting he received from a freelance contributor for The Times. The lead anecdote of the article related the experience of Michael Matha, who was ostensibly sitting outside a Firestone tire and service center in Medford, N.J., waiting to get new tires for his gold Ford Explorer. Mr. Blair wrote that Mr. Matha was 'fuming' while outside the center. Both Mr. Matha and Lisa Suhay, the freelancer who interviewed him, said that was an inaccurate characterization. Mr. Matha also denied having said, 'I'm not taking no for an answer.' He also does not recall having said, The car has not moved out of the driveway since the recall was announced.' He says, I still had to drive it.' 
 Ms. Suhay said she had interviewed Mr. Matha in front of his driveway in Medford, not outside the Firestone tire and service center. Mr. Blair described the Firestone tire and service center as being in Medford. It is in Marlton. 
 'TV Advertising Drives Fight Over Size of Spanish Audience' 
 July 17, 2000 
 Mr. Blair quoted Andrew Beveridge, a demographics expert and sociology professor at Queens College, as saying, 'The growth of Hispanic immigrants in New York has just been astronomical in the past three years.' Professor Beveridge recently told The Times that he did not say the quoted words. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLAGIARISM (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); WRITERS (79%); POLICE FORCES (73%); AIR FORCES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); AIDS & HIV (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2003 



275 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Late Rally Helps Stocks Make a Modest Advance

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
A late-day rally yesterday gave stocks a moderate advance despite an absence of major earnings or economic news. 
 Most of the market's gains came in the final hour. Stocks retraced ground lost earlier in the session when the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, warned that natural gas prices would be higher for an extended period. 
 "Today just seems like a pause till we figure out if the market is ready to resume its advance or if we are going to keep paying for what happened last week," when stocks enjoyed huge rallies, said Brian Pears, head equity trader at Victory Capital Management in Cleveland. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 74.89 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 9,054.89. The gain nearly wiped out Monday's 82.79-point loss.
The Nasdaq composite index gained 23.70 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,627.67, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 8.91 points, or 0.9 percent, to 984.84. 
Last week, the Dow closed above 9,000 for the first time in nearly 10 months, while the S.& P. traded above 1,000 for the first time in almost a year.
It was also the seventh winning week out of the last eight for the S.& P. and the Nasdaq composite index and the sixth weekly advance out of eight for the Dow. 
"The last two weeks have really felt frothy" with gains, Mr. Pears said. 
Wall Street has rallied for three months, lifted by first-quarter profits that were better than expected, a quick end to the war in Iraq, a new tax cut package and improving economic data. 
The sell-off Monday was the first time in three weeks, or since May 20, that all three of the market's main gauges declined. 
At the end of yesterday's trading, the Dow had gained 20.3 percent from March 11, when the rallies began, while the Nasdaq had climbed 28 percent and the S.& P. had advanced 23percent. 
Some analysts say that while the market's fundamentals are improving, it is still hard to explain those robust gains any other way than to say the stocks are simply moving on their own upward momentum. 
Market observers got another reason to question stock prices yesterday, when Mr. Greenspan said that higher natural gas prices, which are twice what they were last year, "have put significant segments of the North American gas-using industry in a weakened competitive position" against industries overseas and that they would probably persist into the beginning of next year. 
Jones Apparel rose $1.70, to $29.40, after Merrill Lynch raised its rating to buy from neutral. 
Boeing advanced $1.14, to $34.31, after Banc of America Securities upgraded it to buy from neutral. 
Freddie Mac rose $1.24, to $51.50, having plunged $9.61, or 16.1 percent, on Monday when it announced the departure of its top three executives and that it was restating three years' worth of earnings. 
Nokia fell 25 cents, to $17.71, after affirming its second-quarter earnings estimate but warning that sales in its mobile phone division could miss forecasts calling for growth of 4 to 12 percent.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Rise
(By Bloomberg News)
The Treasury prices rose yesterday as speculation increased that Federal Reserve policy makers were ready to cut interest rates by as much as half a point to prevent slower inflation from derailing economic growth.
The 10-year Treasury note jumped 25/32, to a price of 103 21/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 3.19 percent from 3.28 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond gained 1 18/32, to 118 5/32. The bond's yield dipped to 4.25 percent from 4.34 percent.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.916
High Rate: 1.075
Coupon Yield: 1.099
Low Rate: 1.050
Median Rate: 1.065
Total applied for: $58,221,424
Accepted: $24,855,749
Noncompetitive: $46,137

The four-week bills mature July 10, 2003.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); TAX RELIEF (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (60%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); VICTORY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (50%); BOEING CO (50%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (50%); BAC (LSE) (50%); 8648 (TSE) (50%); BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



276 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: LETTER FROM ASIA; 
In Warlord Land, Democracy Tries Baby Steps

BYLINE:  By Carlotta Gall 

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, June 10 

 BODY:
In the hushed, rose-filled gardens of the royal palace in Kabul, life seems calm and good. Under the chandeliers of the meeting hall upstairs, President Hamid Karzai, just back from a trip to Britain and a meeting with the queen, manages to combine an expression of condolence for German peacekeepers killed in a suicide bomb attack in the capital Saturday with an upbeat assessment of the situation in his country. 
 The heavily armed American bodyguards who stand in the gardens and by the windows of the palace have become like the wallpaper, so much are they part of the scene now. The Taliban threat in the south and southeast, the car bomber who drove this week right into the city, the persistent factional fighting in the north of the country, all seem far away. 
 But in the last few months there has been a crisis of confidence in Afghanistan, a sense that the security situation may be spiraling downward and that the rise of regional warlords may be more than a temporary phenomenon. Attacks on peacekeepers and aid workers are increasing. After more than a year of waiting patiently for results, people here are increasingly asking: are the Americans getting it right?
Today, as American forces in Iraq struggle to establish order, as one or two American soldiers seem to fall every day, it seems likely to be a question the United States will soon face in Iraq as well. 
Even the most pessimistic Afghanistan watchers acknowledge that this time is different from the sliding chaos of the early 1990's. The Americans are not going to turn their back on Afghanistan the way they did then, and the way they did in Iraq after the Persian Gulf war in 1991. The Americans are here and, by allaccounts and appearances, here to stay. 
But there is only a year left for Mr. Karzai and his American backers to get things right before his term is up. The Bonn process, which set up the interim administration led by Mr. Karzai, lays out a rapid program for a new constitution to be drawn up and approved by a grand assembly this October, and for national elections to be held next June.
For Afghanistan, one key to establishing order is the disarmament of the factional armies around the country. The United Nations and Afghanistan's new Human Rights Commission have already stressed that if the much delayed disarmament and demobilization program does not go ahead, the drafting of the constitution and national elections could be thrown into jeopardy. 
"There is a real, but still avoidable, risk that the Bonn process will stall if security is not extended to the regions, and that Afghans will lose confidence in the central government if it cannot protect them," the United Nations special representative to Afghanistan, Lakhdar Brahimi, told the Security Council in New York last month.
Another difficulty is that the allies are tackling the problems in piecemeal fashion, a strategy that will only advance the country by tiny steps, critics say. 
United States diplomats and aid officials like to draw attention to a large wall map in their embassy that is covered in a "blizzard" of yellow Post-it stickers marking every single project under way in the country. They trumpet the provincial reconstruction teams, United States military-civil affairs teams that are trying to win hearts and minds in the provinces by building schools, or latrines for schools. And they talk of the program to train the Afghan National Army, which should produce a 9,000-member force by next year. 
But the national impact of all of this is virtually nil. As one director of a donor agency, which completed 160 construction projects last year, said, "The dimension of the destruction is such that people don't see it."
Compared with the enormous military-political Gordian knot that needs to be cut, the attention to human needs can only be described as paltry, even irrelevant. 
Little has been done to disarm and dismantle the power bases of the factions, and as time goes on the armed men who rule the districts, regions and whole provinces are becoming more and more entrenched and increasingly powerful economically. They are likely to dominate politics during the next year, which could fatally erode all public trust in the process and the results. The country could end up being ruled by a mixture of drug lords and fundamentalist mujahedeen -- in other words, people not much different from the Taliban.
Everyone has a different idea of what the United States should be doing, but most Afghans and Westerners working here agree that there are two basic requirements for nation-building that the United States cannot afford to ignore -- providing security and establishing a functioning political system. They are interconnected, most here agree; in fact, it is impossible to have one without the other.
Only a legitimate, national political system will have the authority to establish a police and justice system with the necessary powers to establish real security. Without real security, there can be no widespread development; American soldiers cannot stand on every street corner, or monitor every business transaction and tax collection.
The problem here, as in Iraq, is that the American military is still running the show and views Afghanistan through the prism of the campaign against terrorism and not according to the country's political and economic demands. But if Afghanistan is to seize the chance this year to start becoming a stable and prosperous society, there is much, much more to be done.
Many are saying that Washington needs to exert more political pressure -- on Mr. Karzai to act more decisively, on his government to work more proactively, on the police nationwide to ensure law and order, on commanders to disarm, on ministers to reform their ministries and even out the balance of power, on warlords to give up their fiefs and join the government, on Pakistan to stop supporting the Taliban and other opponents of the Bonn process. The list goes on.
All those steps would be a help. But fundamentally, the Americans need to create an atmosphere in which democratic politics can take hold. That means doing more than attending to human needs and offering military training. It means, in the view of many Western officials here and prominent Afghans, putting pressure on the warlords, disarming them and cutting their power bases, leveling the political playing field so that the coming elections are free and fair.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soldiers of the Afghan National Guard entered Kabul Olympic Stadium last winter for their graduation ceremony, through red smoke created for dramatic effect. It is hoped they will counter the growing power of the warlords. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (85%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); ARMIES (77%); TERRORISM (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); DESERT STORM (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); APPROVALS (60%); DISARMAMENT (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%) GALL, CARLOTTA 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); IRAQ (93%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (91%); GULF STATES (55%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



277 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Natural Gas Outlook Worries Greenspan 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 10 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, warned Congress today that short supplies and sharply rising costs of natural gas could eventually contribute to "erosion" in the economy. He said the United States should prepare to increase imports of the fuel, which is increasingly in demand. 
 At the same time, Mr. Greenspan said lawmakers should give new consideration to expanding the nation's capacity for nuclear power, a position narrowly embraced today by the Senate, which voted 50 to 48 to keep new federal loan guarantees for the construction of nuclear plants in an emerging energy bill. 
 "I do think an overall policy of energy cannot dismiss the issue of nuclear power," Mr. Greenspan told the House Energy and Commerce Committee in an appearance devoted mainly to the volatility in the natural gas markets.
He, along with other analysts and industry officials, painted a worrisome picture of low gas inventories because of the extended winter and prices hovering above $6 per million B.T.U.'s, double the level of a year ago but down from highs of more than $7 per million B.T.U.'s in March. Given the market situation, Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham on Monday called a natural gas summit meeting of the National Petroleum Council for June 26.
"We see a storm brewing on the horizon," said Representative Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana and the chairman of the panel, who said that natural gas now fulfilled 23 percent of the nation's energy needs. "We need to prepare for it."
Some committee allies of the domestic oil and gas industry had hoped Mr. Greenspan might give them ammunition to press for new oil and gas drilling in coastal areas that have been put off limits because of objections from adjacent states.
But Mr. Greenspan instead focused on the need to increase the ability to import liquefied natural gas as a "safety valve" against flat domestic production of natural gas and rising demand. He said the nation should consider building terminals to accept deliveries of liquefied natural gas from other countries as the quickest way to address the supply needs. Four such terminals exist, and others are in development.
"Without the flexibility such facilities will impart, imbalances in supply and demand must inevitably engender price volatility," he said.
Mr. Greenspan also said the gas market was exposing a "weakened competitive position" for American industries that had counted on much lower energy prices. He said that while businesses could absorb higher prices for a period, they probably could not do so over a long term without economic consequences and job loss.
In response to concerns by lawmakers that the United States would be making itself reliant on natural gas imports just as it has done in the case of oil, Mr. Greenspan said the supplies of natural gas were relatively widespread rather than concentrated in the Middle East, as is the case with oil.
House members and industry officials said they hoped Mr. Greenspan's rare appearance to focus on a specific sector of the energy industry might give some momentum to energy legislation in the Senate. 
Although the House adopted its energy measure in April, the Senate has been moving slowly, devoting much of last week to a fight over increasing the use of a corn-based gasoline additive. Debate has also been interrupted to allow consideration of a proposal to cut taxes and other legislation. It was to be cut off again after this week so the Senate could take up Medicare legislation.
But Senator Pete Domenici, Republican of New Mexico and the chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, predicted this week that the Senate would ultimately adopt a wide-ranging measure that provides new incentives for gas and oil production as well as incentives for the construction of plants for nuclear power and wind-generated energy.
"There is no doubt in my mind we will get a bill this year," hesaid in an interview. "The question is when. I think it is going to be earlier than you think."
Senator Domenici, an avid proponent of nuclear power, won a significant victory on the nuclear issue when the Senate rejected an attempt to strip the bills of provisions that opponents said would provide up to $16 billion in federal subsidies for six new nuclear plants. He said his proposal could "jump start" the nuclear power industry after years of stagnation.
Senator John E. Sununu, Republican of New Hampshire, who offered the amendment with Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, said that while he supported a diverse energy supply, commercial power plants "should be developed on a level playing field without government subsidizing one industry over others."
Though the House energy bill did not include a comparable nuclear program, Senator Domenici said he was determined that his approach would be included in the final measure.
Senators also adopted by a vote of 99 to 1 a proposal by Senator Mary Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, to require the president to develop a plan to decrease oil consumption by 1 million barrels of oil a day within a decade.
On Wednesday, the Senate was expected to debate a proposal to drop from the Senate bill a requirement that the Interior Department survey potential oil and gas resources off the nation's coasts. Opponents of oil drilling off Florida, California, New England and the Pacific Northwest view the plan as an effort to undermine longtime drilling bans covering those waters.
Prodded by House members on whether those protected areas should be opened up given the push to find new sources of natural gas, Mr. Greenspan said that was a judgment for Congress to make.
"There is no way to create energy without any risk," Mr. Greenspan said. "It is a question of choice."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, warned yesterday that the rising prices and demand for natural gas pose economic problems. (Getty Images) Chart: "Low Inventories, Rising Prices"Low levels of natural gas in storage -- supplies are below the range of the last five years -- and a doubling in prices over the last year are causing concern in Washington. NATURAL GAS IN STORAGE* Graph compares weekly figures of *underground storage, measured in trillions of cubic feet, since June 2002 and 1997-2002. PRICE Graph tracks per million B.T.U.'s since June 2002. (Sources: Energy Information Administration gas in storage ; Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); DISMISSALS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); OIL EXTRACTION (65%) GAS (FUEL); SHORTAGES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ATOMIC ENERGY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); NATIONAL PETROLEUM COUNCIL (55%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); MARY LANDRIEU (58%) HULSE, CARL; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); TAUZIN, BILLY (REPR); LANDRIEU, MARY (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



278 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1375 words

PERSON: Donald T. Regan 

HEADLINE: Donald Regan, 84, Financier and Top Reagan Aide, Dies 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SEVERO 

 BODY:
Donald T. Regan, the steel-willed financier who was Treasury secretary and, later, an uncommonly powerful chief of staff to President Ronald Reagan until his bitter departure in 1987, died yesterday in Virginia. He was 84 and lived in Williamsburg, Va. 
 The cause was cancer, said a statement from Merrill Lynch, which he once ran. 
 Mr. Regan went to Washington in 1981, after stepping down as chairman of Merrill Lynch, which he joined in 1946. He helped transform the firm into one of the largest and most innovative in the banking business. 
By the time he left, it was offering not just securities, but also consulting, real estate, credit cards, checking and other services it never had provided before.
Variously described as blunt, engaging, mercurial and quick, Mr. Regan was for seven years one of the president's closest advisers on economics and other fields. In 1981, the year he became Treasury secretary, he helped shape the Economic Recovery Act, a sweeping tax cut, and later wrote a proposal to overhaul the tax system. That was enacted as the Tax Reform Act of 1986.
A convert to Mr. Reagan's supply-side economics, the idea that tax cuts can promote investment and add employment, Mr. Regan was recognized as one of the president's favorites. After signing the 1981 tax cut, the president praised the help of "a very fine salesman named Don Regan."
But in early 1985, he and the president's chief of staff, James A. Baker III, swapped positions, and Mr. Regan was thrust into an arena whose battles left lasting scars.
Because of President Reagan's style of delegating authority, Mr. Regan was widely regarded as one of the most influential White House chiefs of staff. The post enabled him to determine much of what the president heard and saw day to day. 
The extent of that power, which he wielded absolutely, was sorely tested, and eroded, before the end of the Reagan presidency. 
First was a tumble in Mr. Reagan's popularity over the Iran-contra affair, followed by famously strained relations between Mr. Regan and the president's wife, Nancy Reagan, over managing the presidency.
As the Iran-contra affair unfolded in 1986, the nation learned that some administration officials had illegally sold arms to Iran to try to win freedom for American hostages and that some of the money had been given to the contras, a rebel force in Nicaragua that was trying to oust the Marxist government of Daniel Ortega Saavedra.
Mr. Regan sensed that the president had to recoup his losses through an aggressive counterattack to turn away attention from Iran-contra. Mrs. Reagan was concerned that her husband needed time to recover from surgery for abdominal cancer. 
As the convalescence period lengthened and reports of a paralyzed presidency dominated Washington, Mr. Regan became increasingly enraged. For her part, Mrs. Reagan became convinced that Mr. Regan was responsible for her husband's declining popularity and worked behind the scenes to have him fired.
He was forced from office in 1987. Over the next two years, he and Mrs. Reagan published memoirs that included attacks on each other.
Mr. Regan said he had discovered that Mrs. Reagan regularly consulted an astrologer from San Francisco about "good days" and "bad days" for certain presidential activities like trips, personal appearances and even surgery. Mr. Regan spelled that out in considerable detail in his book "For the Record," published in 1988, a year after he left office. On numerous occasions, he wrote, the president was not available to travel because of advice given to Mrs. Reagan by the astrologer, Joan Quigley. 
In her book, "My Turn," published in 1989, the former first lady wrote that Mr. Regan "often acted as if he were the president," that he once threatened to dismiss the president's personal secretary, and that no one wanted to work with him because he was "explosive and difficult to deal with." 
She defended her faith in Mrs. Quigley, whom she said she consulted to help protect the president from further harm. She emphasized that she had consulted Mrs. Quigley only about scheduling and not on the substantive issues of state. 
At the time, Congress was investigating the funneling of the illicit money to the contras, particularly the role of members of the staff of the national security adviser. 
President Reagan insisted that he knew nothing about the diversion, and no one suggested that Mr. Regan, as chief of staff, had any knowledge about it, either. 
But the commission that looked into Iran-contra criticized Mr. Regan for not knowing what the national security staff was up to. Mr. Regan said he thought that the criticism was unjust and countered that the security staff was under the jurisdiction of the national security adviser, not the chief of staff.
"Does the bank president know whether a teller in the bank is fiddling around with the books?" he asked, answering his own question with a firm, "No."
But by February 1987, the clamor inside and outside the White House had become too great to ignore, and Mr. Regan left the West Wing.
Donald Thomas Regan was born on Dec. 21, 1918, in Cambridge, Mass., the son of William F. and Kathleen Ahern Regan. His father was for a time in the Metropolitan Police in Boston and then was an officer with the New Haven Railroad. Donald Regan was educated at Cambridge Latin School, a public high school, and then at Harvard, from which he received his bachelor's in English in the class of 1940, the same class that produced John F. Kennedy. The two had just a nodding acquaintance. 
Mr. Regan entered the Harvard Law School, but in 1942 enlisted in the Marines as an officer candidate. He served in several South Pacific campaigns and left the Marines as a lieutenant colonel. Also in 1942, he married Ann G. Buchanan, who survives him. Also surviving are two daughters, Donna Lefeve of Alexandria, Va., and Diane Doniger of Santa Fe, N.M.; two sons, Donald Jr., of Sarasota, Fla., and Richard, of Denver; and nine grandchildren.
Rather than return to law school after the war, he became a trainee at the investment firm that was later known as Merrill Lynch. 
He rose quickly through the ranks, working as an account executive in Washington, as manager of the office in Philadelphia and as an executive in sales promotion. In 1968, he became president of Merrill Lynch, the youngest person in the post. He was named chief executive in 1973. 
Mr. Regan was encouraged to seek public office by Treasury Secretary William J. Casey, who had been Mr. Reagan's campaign manager before becoming director of central intelligence. Mr. Casey suggested that Mr. Regan raise money for the Republican cause, which he did. 
Mr. Regan was nevertheless opposed by some of the president's more conservative supporters, because, although always a Republican, he had contributed money to some Democratic candidates and had earlier publicly supported the concept of wage and price controls.
After Mr. Regan became Treasury secretary, his strongly held convictions and candor led to conflicts with administration officials, in particular the budget director, David A. Stockman, with whom he contended for the role of chief spokesman on economics.
Mr. Regan's relationship with the president warmed, and he became the chief spokesman on the hotly debated issue of tax reduction, which the president strongly supported.
"I'm a free-market person," Mr. Regan said, endorsing one important policy, "I believe in competition." He also strongly supported the president's desire to deregulate as much of the economy as possible. 
After Mr. Regan and Mr. Baker swapped jobs in Mr. Reagan's second term, some presidential aides complained that they no longer had access to the chief executive.
"The president no longer has advisers," said Edward J. Rollins, a political director in the Reagan White House. "He has Don Regan, and Don Regan has advisers."
When the end of his government service arrived, Mr. Regan complained that the president had treated him "like a shoe clerk" and that he was angry that the name of his successor, Howard H. Baker Jr., had been announced before he had submitted his resignation.
"I read that I'm ruthless," he once told The New York Times. "I'll have to let history reveal whether I'm ruthless or not."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald T. Regan with his boss, Ronald Reagan, on Sept. 29, 1986, at the White House. Mr. Regan was forced out as chief of staff the next year. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CANCER (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); POLITICS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); TAX REFORM (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (68%); PARALYSIS (64%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (60%); HOSTAGE TAKING (60%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

RONALD REAGAN (94%) REGAN, DONALD T; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; SEVERO, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (73%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



279 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Powell Visits Argentina and Finds It Wary on Foreign Policy 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, June 10 

 BODY:
Argentina's new government greeted Secretary of State Colin L. Powell politely but cautiously today, expressing hopes for a more constructive United States role in the country's economic recovery while sidestepping any ties to Washington's foreign policy objectives.
 At a news conference at the presidential palace here, Mr. Powell described his meeting with President Nestor Kirchner, who took office barely two weeks ago, as "very open and cordial, as befitting a strong relationship between two friends." But those ties have been seriously tested in the last two years, and Mr. Kirchner has talked openly of reorienting Argentine foreign policy. 
 Government officials here said that in the days before Mr. Powell's morning stopover here, the United States had expressed interest in having Argentina send policemen to Iraq to help keep order. But the government here said it would do so only under United Nations auspices. The war in Iraq was criticized here as a violation of international law.
"We have appreciated over the years how much Argentina was willing to participate in peacekeeping operations aroundthe world," Mr. Powell said when asked about the issue at the news conference, "and certainly we hoped that Argentina would consider some contribution to what is happening in the Iraq peacekeeping effort." He added that he and Mr. Kirchner "did not talk of any specifics."
In remarks to reporters traveling with him, Mr. Powell suggested that the main purpose of the meeting today was to take the measure of Mr. Kirchner, the obscure governor of a remote province in Patagonia until the political and economic chaos of the last 18 months catapulted him into the presidency on May 25. "I really want to listen to him as he tells me about his plans, his aspirations, what he hopes to do in his administration," Mr. Powell said.
Mr. Powell's brief visit was the first by an American secretary of state in nearly three years. Since then, however, nearly everything has changed: the country has had six presidents, endured an economic collapse that caused the economy to contract by more than 10 percent last year, and also declared the largest sovereign debt default in history.
Under former President Carlos Saul Menem, who governed this country of 37 million people in the 1990's, Argentina's foreign policy was closely aligned with the United States, so much so that Mr. Menem talked of "carnal relations." As Mr. Powell noted today, Argentina was the only Latin American country to take part in the Persian Gulf war in 1991, and in 1997 was designated a "major non-NATO ally" by the Clinton administration.
Mr. Kirchner, in contrast, has sought to distance himself from the United States by cultivating what he calls a "strategic alliance" with neighboring Brazil, Argentina's partner in the regional trading group known as Mercosur. On Wednesday, in fact, he is scheduled to meet in Brasilia with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, whose left-leaning ideology and focus on greater Latin American integration he shares.
When asked about the Powell visit at a news conference at the weekend, Mr. Kirchner said, "I am going to listen to what he has come to talk about" because his government's policy was to "welcome everyone, listen attentively and then say what we think." But Mr. Kirchner also cautioned that the United States should no longer expect "any type of automatic alignment."
That attitude is at least in part a result of disappointment at what is seen here and elsewhere in Latin America as the Bush administration's failure to help Argentina in its time of economic need. Rather than organize a rescue package as the Clinton administration did for Mexico in 1995, officials like former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill implied that such money would merely be wasted and made other statements that worsened market turbulence.
"Things were badly handled" and as a result the United States "brought on a lot of animosity with no need," a senior official of the Organization of American States said in Santiago, Chile, on Monday. When Argentines saw help being extended to countries like Turkey and Mexico, the conclusion drawn, he added, was that "they care about Mexico, but they don't care about us." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); FOREIGN POLICY (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); DESERT STORM (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (68%); IRAQ WAR (68%); TRENDS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TERRORISM (59%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLICE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: NESTOR KIRCHNER (89%) POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); KIRCHNER, NESTOR (PRES); ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); GULF STATES (56%) ARGENTINA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



280 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Read My Lips 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Democrats have been groping for a way to counter George Bush's maniacal tax cuts, which are designed to shrink government and shift as many things as possible to the market. May I make a suggestion? When you shrink government, what you do, over time, is shrink the services provided by federal, state and local governments to the vast American middle class. I would suggest that henceforth Democrats simply ask voters to substitute the word "services" for the word "taxes" every time they hear President Bush speak.
 That is, when the president says he wants yet another round of reckless "tax cuts," which will shift huge burdens to our children, Democrats should simply refer to them as "service cuts," because that is the only way these tax cuts will be paid for -- by cuts in services. Indeed, the Democrats' bumper sticker in 2004 should be: "Read my lips, no new services. Thank you, President Bush." 
 Say it with me now: "Read my lips, no new services -- or old ones."
Whenever Mr. Bush says, "It's not the government's money, it's your money," Democrats should point out that what he is really saying is, "It's not the government's services, it's your services" -- and thanks to the Bush tax cuts, soon you'll be paying for many of them yourself.
As the former Nixon-era commerce secretary Peter Peterson just observed in this newspaper, when Mr. Bush took office the 10-year budget projection showed a $5.6 trillion surplus -- something that would easily prefinance the cost of Social Security. The first Bush tax cut, coupled with continued spending growth and the post-9/11 costs, brought the projected surplus down to $1 trillion. "Unfazed by this turnaround," notes Mr. Peterson, "the Bush administration proposed a second tax-cut package in 2003 in the face of huge new fiscal demands, including a war in Iraq and an urgent 'homeland security' agenda." Result: now the 10-year fiscal projection is for a $4 trillion deficit.
This in turn will shrink the federal government's ability to help out the already strapped states. Since most states have to run balanced budgets, that will mean less health care and kindergarten for children and the poor, higher state college tuition, smaller local school budgets and fewer state service workers. And Lord only knows how we'll finance Social Security.
Everyone wants taxes to be cut, but no one wants services to be cut, which is why Democrats have to reframe the debate -- and show President Bush for what he really is: a man who is not putting money into your pocket, but who is removing government services and safety nets from your life.
Ditto on foreign policy. As we and our government continue to spend and invest more than we save, we will become even more dependent on the outside world to finance the gap. Foreigners will have to buy even more of our T-bills and other assets. And do you know on whom we'll be most dependent for that? China and Japan. Yes, that China -- the one the Bush team says is our biggest geopolitical rival.
"In the 1990's, Japan's and China's excess savings were financing our private sector investment, because the government was in surplus," says Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International. "Now, with these looming deficits, China and Japan are being asked to finance our government's actual operations." That makes us very dependent on their willingness to continue sending us hundreds of billions of dollars of their savings. Should China and Japan not want to play along, your services will very likely be cut even sooner (unless you believe in "voodoo economics"). Which is why Democrats should rename this tax bill the China-Japan Economic Dependency Act.
I don't think Democrats can win the presidency with a single issue. You win the presidency by connecting with the American people's gut insecurities and aspirations. You win with a concept. The concept I'd argue for is "neoliberalism." More Americans today are natural neolibs, than neocons. Neoliberals believe in a muscular foreign policy and a credible defense budget, but also a prudent fiscal policy that balances taxes, deficit reduction and government services.
To name something is to own it. And the Democrats, for too long, have allowed the Bush team to name its radical reduction in services, and the huge dependence it is creating on foreign capital, as an innocuous "tax cut." Balderdash. This new tax cut is a dangerous foray into wretched excess and it will ultimately make our government, ourselves and our children less secure. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TUITION FEES (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); BUDGET FORECASTS (68%); IRAQ WAR (68%) TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



281 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: THE ALLIES; 
Rumsfeld Sees Progress in Bringing Order to Iraq but No Quick End to Violence

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: LISBON, June 10 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said today that American-led military forces and Iraqis had made broad progress restoring order in Iraq. But he said there would be no quick end to a wave of violence, which he attributed to remnants of Saddam Hussein's government and to criminals freed from jails not long before its collapse. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld was speaking at a news conference here with his Portuguese counterpart, Paulo Portas, at the start of a four-day trip to Europe to thank countries that supported the United States in Iraq. 
 The trip will end with a meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Brussels to discuss changes to the alliance's structure. 
It comes against the backdrop of continuing attacks on American forces in Iraq. More than 40 members of the American military have been killed there since May 1, the day that President Bush declared as the end of hostilities. 
Mr. Rumsfeld cited the Iraqi government's release of some 100,000 criminals in the days preceding its collapse as a source of "some crime and wrongdoing." 
But he added that "this also occurs in metropolitan areas of America, Europe and Asia as well." 
More significant, he said, "remnants of the regime" were also responsible for the lawlessness, including members of the Baath Party and the Republican Guard. 
"Do I think that's going to disappear in the next month, or two, or three? No," he said, adding that it would "take time to root out the remnants of the Saddam Hussein regime, and we intend to do it." 
He said the United States was "bringing on board continuously hundreds and most recently thousands of Iraqis," who were accompanying American forces on patrols. 
While some American allies have committed to sending peacekeeping troops to Iraq in coming months, Mr. Rumsfeld appeared eager to dispel the idea that order could only be restored if the United States forces were supplemented by large numbers of allied soldiers. 
He said that by "altering the mix" of security patrols, through the addition of Iraqis, security could be greatly improved. 
He said the "idea that there won't be any help until coalition countries arrive in the fall is exactly false," because security in Iraq was "improving as we proceed." 
The Bush administration split with several of America's allies in Europe, notably France and Germany, over Iraq. But at a meeting last week in France, the leaders of major industrialized nations including France, Germany and Russia put aside their differences, agreeing that their objective was a "fully sovereign, stable and democratic Iraq." 
Still, several leaders, including the French president, Jacques Chirac, a staunch opponent of the war, pointedly recalled at the meeting that while the United States might have been able to win the war alone, it could not secure the peace without help. 
The United States is in talks with 41 countries to supply some form of aid. 
Mr. Rumsfeld visited Portugal this morning, then flew to Tirana, the capital of Albania. 
Both Albania and Portugal supported the United States over Iraq, though neither supplied military aid. But Albania's economy is weak, and Portugal, despite more than $30 billion in aid from the European Union since 1986, is in financial disorder and has turned to Washington for help in rebuilding its neglected armed forces. 
In his meeting with Mr. Portas, in a 16th century fort here, Mr. Rumsfeld also discussed the possible appointment of a Portuguese, Antonio Vitorino, the European Union's minister of justice and home affairs, as NATO's future secretary general. 
Portugal has also been pressing to have alliance offices outside Lisbon upgraded to a regional command center. 
News reports have suggested that the United States favors the Norwegian defense minister, Kristin Krohn Devold, who would be the first woman to be secretary general of the alliance, when the incumbent, Lord Robertson of Britain, steps down in December. 
Secretaries general are by tradition Europeans, but Mr. Rumsfeld said today that neither Washington nor the alliance had decided on a successor. 
Mr. Rumsfeld said an international force was being assembled that would help restore order to Iraq. 
An advance unit of 35 Italian soldiers arrived today in Basra, in southern Iraq, the first of roughly 1,700 Italian soldiers who will be assigned by the end of June under British command. 
A party of Dutch soldiers is expected on Thursday, Reuters quoted a British army spokesman as saying. 
A dozen or so countries have pledged soldiers to a force of 7,500 that will be positioned in central Iraq under Polish command.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfield, left, met with Defense Minister Paulo Portas of Portugal yesterday in Lisbonn as part of a four-day European trip to thank nations that supported the United States in Iraq. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (52%) RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); PORTAS, PAULO (MIN); VITORINO, ANTONIO; TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (77%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); PORTUGAL (94%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (90%); BELGIUM (79%); ASIA (79%) IRAQ; PORTUGAL; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



282 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: PeopleSoft Bid Mirrors Lofty Goals of Oracle Chief 

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Lawrence J. Ellison, the 58-year-old chairman of Oracle, whose hobbies include yachting and piloting jet-fighter planes, has earned his reputation as one of the most flamboyant and outspoken executives in corporate America.
 His brash public pronouncements -- whether vilifying a rival like Microsoft or declaring that Silicon Valley is finally growing old -- tend to be taken with a handful of salt. Oh, that's just Larry, is a common reaction in the industry to what are seen as Mr. Ellison's antics. 
 Oracle's $5.1 billion bid last week for PeopleSoft, a maker of business software, seems to bear some of the eccentric touches so characteristic of Mr. Ellison. It is a rare hostile takeover attempt in the software business, the price looks low, and Mr. Ellison has expressed little interest in PeopleSoft's products.
But regardless of whether it succeeds, the bid reflects a step in Mr. Ellison's plan to make Oracle the dominant presence in the market for software used by corporations. And his strategy comes straight from the playbook of his longtime adversary, Microsoft.
Mr. Ellison's goal is to achieve in corporate data centers what Microsoft has accomplished with desktop personal computers. Microsoft's business began with the operating system -- first MS-DOS and then Windows -- a basic technology platform on which software developers write applications. Microsoft then developed personal productivity applications software for word processing and spreadsheets. But Microsoft did not dominate in those applications until they were bundled and aggressively priced in a suite of programs called Microsoft Office that worked best with Windows.
Mr. Ellison sees his company's mainstay product, the Oracle database, as the corporate computing equivalent of the Windows operating system. On top of the database run a series of what are known as enterprise applications, which corporations use to automate business tasks like accounting and procurement as well as customer relations and human resources programs. 
In recent years, Oracle has been gradually building up its own stable of enterprise applications, which it calls the Oracle e-Business Suite. PeopleSoft, whose software is used to manage human resources and other tasks, would enlarge Oracle's corporate applications business. Mr. Ellison has said he is most interested in PeopleSoft's customers, and someday having them move their business over to Oracle products.
Mr. Ellison explains his strategy in terms of the Microsoft experience -- which means putting together an integrated collection of software applications as the way to prevail in a given market. 
"Microsoft was busily competing with Lotus in spreadsheets and it was unsuccessful," Mr. Ellison said in an interview a few weeks ago. "It was competing against WordPerfect in word processing, and Microsoft was unsuccessful. Eventually, Office came out and Microsoft dominated."
"I think there are just these natural synergies between the database and the applications, like there are natural synergies between the desktop operating system and personal productivity applications," Mr. Ellison continued. "And that's our strategy -- be a large player in both of those sectors, and gain tremendous economies of scale as a result that no one else really can gain."
Whether Oracle's bid for PeopleSoft succeeds or fails, the Ellison strategy makes sense, according to industry analysts. The corporate software business does appear ripe for consolidation. And one way corporate customers are trying to curb spending on technology is to deal with fewer suppliers and fewer kinds of software.
"Larry Ellison makes an eloquent argument that corporate software is way too complex, with way too many suppliers in the corporate kitchen, so to speak," said Peter S. Kastner, the director of research at the Aberdeen Group, a consulting firm.
Mr. Ellison is by no means the only software executive making that argument. SAP, a big German company, is the market leader in business software. Its stronghold is in software for accounting and procurement. But it is also gaining strongly as a vendor of human resources programs, where PeopleSoft has done well, and in customer relationship management software, where Siebel Systems is the leader.
Hennig Kagermann, the chief executive of SAP, expects further consolidation in the enterprise software business. But in his view, the inevitable consolidation should not extend to database software. "I think Oracle is wrong in trying to put everything on one database," Mr. Kagermann said.
Oracle may be pursuing a Microsoft-like strategy, but the corporate market is more diverse and less likely to be dominated by a single company. Microsoft's Windows and Office hold more than 90 percent of the markets for PC operating systems and desktop software, respectively. By contrast, if Oracle acquires PeopleSoft, it will hold about 11 percent of the market for business software that handles accounting, procurement and other tasks, which had sales of $23.5 billion last year, according to the International Data Corporation, a research firm. SAP, the leader in that market, has an 18 percent share.
Companies have to do a lot of costly modifications to basic software and often pay computer services specialists, like I.B.M.'s global services unit, to fine-tune programs to meet the needs of their customers. That, analysts say, makes it more difficult for companies to switch, say, from PeopleSoft software to a competing one from Oracle or SAP. 
Mr. Ellison is certain to be headed toward a confrontation with Microsoft in the corporate applications market. The two companies already compete fiercely in corporate database software, where Oracle competes with Microsoft's SQL database.
But in corporate applications, Oracle and Microsoft are headed toward each other -- Oracle moving from the top down, with its big corporate users, and Microsoft going from the bottom up, with its strength in small businesses and control of the desktop. In the last few years, Microsoft has acquired Great Plains and Denmark's Navision. Both make business software, but mainly for medium-size businesses. Oracle, by contrast, sells to big corporations.
"But you can be sure that Microsoft is heading inexorably upstream," said Mr. Kastner of Aberdeen. "And keeping Microsoft from gaining a greater share of the data center market is a crucial strategic objective for Oracle." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (92%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (91%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (89%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (69%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (66%); HUMAN RESOURCES (61%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (93%); ORACLE CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: ORACLE CORP; PEOPLESOFT INC; MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (93%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (93%) ELLISON, LAWRENCE J; LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



283 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Leader Brushes Off Pressure by Bush on Taxes 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE and RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 10 

 BODY:
A powerful Republican leader in the House today dismissed pressure from the White House to pass a Senate bill that would provide child tax credits for low-income working people. The action highlights a potential clash between President Bush's desire for legislative achievements ahead of next year's election and demands from conservatives in his party.
 The House majority leader, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, rejected a demand from the administration that the House pass the Senate bill, which would provide an increased child tax credit to 6.5 million low-income families. 
 "Ain't going to happen," Mr. DeLay said this afternoon, reiterating his stance that the credits would be approved only as part of a much larger tax-cut bill, an $82 billion package that House Republicans unveiled later in the day and plan to bring to the floor on Thursday. 
The House Republicans released their proposal soon after the Congressional Budget Office projected that the budget deficit this year would exceed $400 billion. In dollar terms, a deficit of that level would be the biggest on record, topping the $290 billion deficit in 1992, though as a percentage of total economic output it would be smaller, at 4 percent, than the record 6 percent deficit of 1983.
Reminded at a news conference that Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, had said that Mr. Bush wanted the House to pass the Senate bill quickly, Mr. DeLay reacted derisively.
"The last time I checked, he doesn't have a vote," Mr. DeLay said of Mr. Fleischer.
The majority leader's defiance of the White House reflected growing frustration among conservatives about pressure from the administration to provide a benefit to millions of minimum-wage families who pay little or nothing in federal income taxes. 
But it also exposed the fissures among Republicans over how far to go in chalking up legislative accomplishments ahead of next year's election.
"On this one, the president and Tom DeLay don't see eye to eye," a senior administration official said after Mr. Bush met late today with Republican Congressional leaders at the White House.
The administration is signaling to Congress that it wants speedy agreements on two of the most politically potent issues on the domestic agenda, the tax cut and the proposal to add a prescription drug benefit to Medicare. 
In doing so, strategists said, the administration seeks legislative victories that show Mr. Bush can get things done even in the face of partisan rancor. But it is also trying to blunt the Democrats' most powerful lines of attack heading into the 2004 election.
"The president has shown a history of adhering to his principles while still making progress with the Congress," Mr. Fleischer said. "That's exactly what he intends to do on Medicare and these other issues."
Winning a quick compromise on the child tax credit, strategists said, would help neutralize Democratic attacks on Republicans as heartless on the issue and give credibility to Mr. Bush's claim to being a "compassionate conservative" willing to depart from conservative orthodoxy. 
It would also wipe away a distraction from White House efforts to focus attention on the $350 billion tax cut Mr. Bush signed last month, a measure that administration officials have said would prove to voters that he is acting aggressively to bolster the faltering economy.
In the same way, strategists said, a Rose Garden signing ceremony for a prescription drug bill would not only display concern for the elderly, a crucial voting bloc, but also deprive Democrats of an issue they have long used to attack Republicans.
Diminishing or overcoming Democrats' opportunities to attack Mr. Bush as uncaring about the poor, a failed economic manager and unable to deliver a prescription drug benefit would "leave the president in a very strong position," said Grover G. Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform, a conservative advocacy group with close ties to the White House. "The Democrats have not been able to take any issue and run with it for any period of time."
On Medicare, Mr. Bush's willingness to give ground on his proposal to entice people into private health plans by offering better drug benefits has also left at least some conservatives uneasy.
But the upside for Republicans of actually passing a prescription drug bill is immense in political terms, strategists said.
Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster, said it would be a transformational moment for the Republicans, similar to "what it meant for the Democratic Party to have a Democratic president sign a welfare reform bill," referring to President Bill Clinton's decision in 1996 to sign legislation requiring that welfare recipients seek work. 
Mr. McInturff added, "It would do an enormous amount to reposition this party with seniors."
But in trying to capture the center, the administration is drawing fire from both right and left, often a politically advantageous position but one that can make legislating difficult in a Congress where the Republican majority in the Senate is thin. Objections from moderate Senate Republicans would make it difficult for the latest House tax bill to pass.
The bill that House leaders plan to approve as soon as Thursday includes these major provisions:
*It would provide the tax credit to the low-income families, as the Senate bill does. These include families that make $10,500 to $26,625.
*It would also make the full credit available to couples making up to $150,000, phasing out at about $200,000. This benefit would be available this year, rather than in 2010 as called for in the Senate bill.
*It would go much further than the Senate bill in giving the credit to more than 25 million middle- and upper-income families through 2010, rather than ending in 2005 as in the new tax law.
Representative Bill Thomas, a California Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, ridiculed Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, for championing a credit for low-income families that expires in December 2004, a month after she would be up for re-election. If the Senate is serious about wanting to provide aid to low-income families, it will make the credit permanent, he said, even if the cost is much higher.
"What I hope the message would be," Mr. Thomas said, "is if people try to exploit something as important as low-income families with children for political purposes, that they don't think they can get away with it without being required to accept the policy that is supposed to underlie the politics."
In fact, Ms. Lincoln and the Senate had written their bill to match the expiration date of the credit that House Republicans had insisted on in their version of the tax law. A majority of senators have also demanded that the tax bill pay for itself by raising other fees, while the House bill would cost about $82 billion over 10 years, with no revenue increases to offset the cost.
Mr. Thomas said the cost of the bill would test the Senate's resolve to provide actual tax relief to millions of families, rather than just provide a political opportunity for Democrats to criticize Republicans. 
Mr. DeLay said the House bill would not include an increase in customs fees the Senate has approved, saying they were the equivalent of a tax increase.
Mr. Thomas said the House would look at any increases in revenues proposed by the Senate, but the reluctance of the House leadership to pass a bill that would pay for itself could very well doom the entire bill, including the low-income credits. Senate Democrats and moderate Republicans have said they will not approve any bill that adds to the deficit, and the joint conference on the bill that will begin after the House vote is likely to be acrimonious. In addition, because of Senate budget rules, approving a bill similar to the one unveiled by Mr. Thomas today would require 60 votes, which now appears to be an insurmountable hurdle.
Democrats quickly accused the House leadership of showing disdain for the poor by holding the child tax credits hostage to greater tax cuts.
"From Day 1, the Republican House leaders have made it clear that they think the child of a poor family should receive a smaller tax credit than the child of a wealthy family," said Representative Charles E. Rangel, Democrat of New York. "That is not fair and it is not compassionate."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representatives Nick Lampson of Texas and Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, both Democrats, joined their House leader, Nancy Pelosi of California, right, in a prayer group yesterday that pushed for the child tax credit; Education Secretary Rod Paige joined President Bush at the White House. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); (Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); FAMILY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); MEDICARE (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INCOME TAX (73%); APPROVALS (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (64%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAX CREDITS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%) ;CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); ROSA DELAURO (58%); NICK LAMPSON (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DELAY, TOM (REP); FIRESTONE, DAVID; STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



284 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Adding Confidence, Along With Drug Benefits, to Medicare 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 10 

 BODY:
Architects of a Senate bill adding drug benefits to Medicare set forth details of their proposal today, with a growing sense of confidence that some such plan would become law this year.
 Under the bill, outpatient drug benefits would become available in 2006. The principal authors of the bipartisan bill, Senators Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, and Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, said they were making the drug benefits slightly more generous than they had originally planned because the cost of their initial proposal was less than the $400 billion allotted for the new program over the next 10 years. 
 At the same time, the Senate bill would increase the deductible for doctors' services for the first time in more than a decade. It is now $100 a year. It would be increased to $125 in 2006, then adjusted annually to keep pace with consumer prices. 
 Millions of Medicare beneficiaries in the fee-for-service program would have to pay more for laboratory tests performed in doctors' offices and hospital clinics. Medicare would cut payments to these labs by 20 percent. The labs could make up most of the difference by charging co-payments to beneficiaries.
John C. Rother, policy director of AARP, the lobbying group for older Americans, said his group believed that the drug benefits being offered had to be more generous. "Without further improvements in the bill, we are concerned that only a small proportion of seniors would sign up for the new drug benefits," he said. 
Mr. Grassley is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, which plans to vote on the bill this week. Mr. Baucus is the senior Democrat on the panel.
The Senate bill does more than create a Medicare drug benefit. It also creates alternatives to the traditional Medicare program, allowing people to join private healthplans.
House Republicans have drafted a similar bill. They say that the House, like the Senate, will pass Medicare drug legislation this month. The House bill, like the Senate measure, includes equal drug benefits for people in traditional Medicare and for those who join private health plans.
House Republicans are also seriously considering treating elderly people with high incomes differently from other Medicare beneficiaries.
 Representative Jim McCrery, Republican of Louisiana, said the most affluent beneficiaries might be required to pay higher premiums or there might be a higher limit on the drug costs for which they were personally responsible.
The White House said President Bush would push hard for agreement between the Senate and the House so he can sign a bill this year.
Senator Bill Frist, Republican of Tennessee, the majority leader, said: "Now is the time to act. We will act before the July 4 recess of the Senate. It will be done in a bipartisan way."
The House bill was drafted almost exclusively by Republicans. In the Senate, by contrast, Republicans worked closely with a few Democrats. Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the senior Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, said he had an open mind on the Senate bill. 
In an interview Mr. Rangel said that Democrats could complain "that there's not enough money or that the benefits are inadequate."
"But if a bill is moving this year -- and there's a very good chance that we could pass a bill -- I would not want to be standing in the way," he added. "We could use it as a foundation to build on in future years."
Mr. Rangel said he did not know all the details of the Senate and House bills. But his comments were significant because he has strenuously opposed many other Republican initiatives, and he seemed to be hinting today that he would like to work with Republicans on a Medicare bill like the Senate proposal.
One flash point in negotiations could be the idea of linking Medicare drug benefits to income. 
Mr. McCrery offered two justifications for this approach. "High-income seniors can afford to take care of themselves," he said. "And it saves money for the taxpayer."
 Over all, the House bill, like the Senate bill, would cost $400 billion over 10 years. That represents 22 percent of the total amount likely to be spent on prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries in the coming decade.
 Some conservative Republicans are displeased with the bill moving through the Senate. Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, said he had "fundamental problems" with the bill because it did not do enough to change the structure of Medicare or to encourage people to join private health plans.
 The Senate bill, as described today by the authors, also includes these provisions:
 *The government would invite private insurers to provide drug benefits to Medicare patients in the traditional fee-for-service program. Medicare would sign contracts with at least two drug plans in each region of the country. If fewer than two were available in any region, the government would step in to provide drug benefits, through a contractor. 
 *Insurers offering drug coverage to Medicare beneficiaries could try to control costs by establishing lists of preferred drugs, by charging higher co-payments for drugs not on the list and by encouraging the use of generic drugs and mail-order pharmacies.
 *Medicare beneficiaries could enroll in preferred provider organizations offering extra benefits like coordination of care for chronic illnesses. The government would sign contracts with the "three lowest-cost credible plans" in each region. 
 *Medicare would increase payments to rural hospitals and other rural providers. To help offset the costs, Medicare would freeze payments for home medical equipment, like wheelchairs and oxygen, for seven years. 
 In addition, under the Senate bill, Medicare would cut payments for certain cancer drugs and other medicines covered under existing law.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Senators Bill Frist of Tennessee, George V. Voinovich of Ohio, and Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, taking questions on a drug benefits bill. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (95%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); DRUG PRICES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (74%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (66%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); AGED; INDEXING (ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT SYSTEM); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HEALTH INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (55%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (89%); CHARLES B RANGEL (79%); MAX BAUCUS (78%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (58%); JIM MCCRERY (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) GRASSLEY, CHARLES E (SEN); PEAR, ROBERT; BAUCUS, MAX (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



285 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: BAGHDAD; 
Cheers and Grumbles for Democracy and a Would-Be King

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 10 

 BODY:
It was another day in postwar Iraq.
 On the north end of town, hundreds of tribal sheiks in colorful robes sat in plastic chairs outside the royal mausoleum to hear the first words of Sherif Ali bin Hussein, a member of the former Iraqi royal family, who returned today to offer himself as a successor to the last king, overthrown by Arab nationalists in 1958. 
 "Iraq is for the Iraqis," he said to cheers from the crowd. "We won't accept being under the mandate of anyone. Iraqis will choose their future." 
On the south end of town, a crowd of mostly Shiite Muslims gathered on a square to hear a speech by Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, the brother of Ayatollah Muhammad Bakr al-Hakim, who leads the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution of Iraq, a group that was backed by Iran during its long exile during the rule of Saddam Hussein.
"We have to elect a president," he said to cheers from the crowd. "That is our national right."
A bright sun of early Mesopotamian summer bore down on both crowds and on the speakers whose common theme emphasized the virtues of democratic process and pluralism. These have become the common principles of the disparate groups vying to lead a country that has never known democracy.
Sherif Ali, a maternal cousin of the late King Faisal II, called for a referendum on a constitutional monarchy for Iraq, where a new king, himself, as a direct descendant of Muhammad, could bind up the divisions of Sunni and Shiite Muslims, Kurds and Turkmen, in a parliamentary system.
In the sweltering heat, the sheiks stirred, then they started to leave. Some grumbled that they could not hear the speech, but others complained that it lacked practical content. By the time it was concluded, half of them had moved to their cars to return home or line up for lunch at the lush villa reserved for Sherif Ali. It was the same house that Mr. Hussein used when he was host to Yasir Arafat and other notables in an earlier era.
"These are the same chanting people who were here for Saddam Hussein," said one sheik in a gray robe, who refused to give his name.
Sheik Majid Hatem al-Sayhoud, leader of the Sudan tribe of central Iraq, said "We will vote for the one who will serve the country."
At the Shiite rally, Sheik Hakim had more luck holding his audience throughout his 30-minute address. But as he assailed Mr. Hussein's repressive rule and his persecution of the Shiites, the sheik had to cope with a different distraction.
Two American Apache attack helicopters circled over the rally at the beginning and at the end of the speech. The flight prompted some in the crowd to criticize the United States for appearing to provoke and intimidate the Shiites as they seek to field their own leaders in the political transition under way here.
The capital seemed bracketed by political events, and from the locus of power near the center of the city, the top American administrator, L. Paul Bremer III, held his own public event, a news conference, to mark his first month as the head of the occupation authority.
In the air-conditioned hall of a convention center, Mr. Bremer took the opportunity to say that in that month, "the coalition and the Iraqi people have accomplished a lot."
Iraq is still a war zone, he conceded, and unemployment is in excess of 50 percent. "Repairing the damage of the last regime is a huge task," he said, but day by day the occupation authority is making progress. His "top priority," he said, is "creating jobs" for Iraqis. 
Today Mr. Bremer announced that he would create a $100 million public works program to start rebuilding the country's infrastructure.
"Modernizing the infrastructure is essential to modernizing the economy," he said. "At the same time, this fund will create jobs for thousands of Iraqi workers on important projects across the country." 
The funds will be drawn from Iraq's assets, funds left in the Central Bank and seized from the accounts of Mr. Hussein's government. The first $45 million will be distributed to Iraq's three regions -- north, central and south -- for urgent projects. About $20 million will be used to repair the looted and destroyed ministry buildings in Baghdad and $35 million will be allocated to unfinished public projects, like the last 60 miles of the Baghdad-Basra freeway and the Baghdad surgical hospital, he said.
Here in the capital, the rhythm of life is returning slowly to normal but the landscape of destruction still is vast. The mornings belong to the commerce that is much more in evidence than just two weeks ago as consumer goods flood a market where the lack of tariffs or customs duties have led to an explosion of imports.
The streets are filled with schoolchildren, and the universities are in session though many buildings remain stripped of equipment and windows. Politics and religion, too, are day occupations, for when the sun begins to set, Baghdad reverts to a war zone, where looters, bandits and hundreds of army patrols own the streets. Gunfire still punctuates the night and few Baghdadis venture out to the fish restaurants that are opening to empty tables in a town where a dinner of river carp called masgouf is a staple of life.
At dusk on a day that saw the death in Baghdad of another American soldier, a paratrooper with the 82nd Airborne Division, the American patrols set out in strength, again, through the capital. 
On Rashid Street in the old shopping district, most of the stores were shuttered when gunfire rang out at 7 p.m. A 22-year-old man who had been pushing a wooden cart loaded with aluminum scrap gathered from the looted and burned-out Ministry of Trade was challenged by troops from the First Armored Division.
The suspected looter dropped his cart and ran. Several soldiers gave chase through the warren of the old commercial district.
"Stop," a soldier yelled, according to witnesses. "Stop," he yelled again. But the young man, Ahmen Jassim, kept running. He was afraid they were going to arrest him as a thief. He said he had received permission to carry away "debris" from the destroyed ministry building.
As Mr. Jassim rounded the corner onto Rashid Street, the lead soldier giving chase went down on one knee, leveled his weapon and fired, bringing Mr. Jassim down on the sidewalk. The bullet pierced his leg, severing a major artery, doctors said.
The soldier asked a passer-by, Salem al-Baladawi, to transport the wounded man to the nearest hospital. The man was not placed under arrest.
The shooting was treated with some sensitivity at the checkpoint that initiated the chase of Mr. Jassim. An officer told witnesses not to speak to a reporter. Some did anyway. They applauded the aggressive action against looters. American military officials last month said they were not going to shoot looters unless the soldiers were threatened. Instead, they said they would arrest the looters and hold them for 21 days.
A sergeant at the checkpoint said his comrades had pursued Mr. Jassim because they assumed he was a looter. "He wouldn't have run unless he was guilty," the sergeant said. 
As night fell, the crowds melted away. The soldiers stood guard or went on patrol. Occasional gunfire popped in the distance, setting off the city's street dogs. Then quiet.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Hussein Offering Bounty, Iraqi Says
 Ahmad Chalabi, a prominent Iraqi exile who has now returned to Baghdad, said yesterday that he had evidence that Saddam Hussein was still alive and offering a bounty for killing American troops.
In a breakfast speech to members of the Council on Foreign Relations, Mr. Chalabi asserted that the deposed Iraqi leader, whom he said was roaming the northern part of the country, was offering 300,000 Iraqi dinars (about $200) for every American soldier killed. 
He said he had been told that payments had already been made.
An administration official said that while there were reports of bounties early in the war, officials had not heard recently about a bounty being offered by Mr. Hussein or his supporters.
To reduce American military casualties in Iraq, Mr. Chalabi urged the administration to begin training an Iraqi security force of 25,000 to work with allied forces to police the streets and restore order. He said he had proposed such a force to Mr. Bremer, the American administrator in Baghdad, and to Pentagon officials, but said they were noncommittal.
Mr. Chalabi also criticized the administration for trying to appoint an Iraqi advisory council, rather than pressing forward with plans for a democratic provisional government.
"It is not possible to manufacture leaders," Mr. Chalabi said. Asked about Mr. Chalabi's criticisms of American policy in Iraq, an administration official said that postponing plans for elections was necessary in order to concentrate on restoring security and basic services.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sherif Ali bin Hussein, of Iraq's former royal family, yesterday offered to assume the throne, vacant 45 years. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); TRENDS (71%); HELICOPTERS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ROYAL FAMILY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS; SHIITE MUSLIMS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) TYLER, PATRICK E; BREMER, L PAUL; SHERIF ALI BIN HUSSEIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003 



286 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1767 words

HEADLINE: TRADE SECRETS; 
Let Flies Keep Out, Let Summer Fly In

BYLINE:  By ROLAND MERULLO 

 BODY:
UNLESS your 6-year-old pokes a hole in it, a tipsy dinner guest leans too hard on it or -- as happened during an early scene in "The Wizard of Oz" -- a violent wind rips it from its hinges, you are liable to take your screen door for granted. Sure, the slapping sound echoes in your memory like the melody of a childhood summer. And, sure, the striking plate or the hydraulic door-closer needs an occasional maddening adjustment. But for the most part, it is just there, letting breezes in and keeping mosquitoes and hornets out, a curtain of frame and mesh that guards the border between domesticated air and something slightly wilder.
 The screen door, in one version or another, has been around since shortly after the Civil War, when people discovered how to weave metal wire. These days, industry leaders like the Home Depot sell millions a year, most made of metal, cellular PVC or softwoods. Typically, these off-the-rack doors cost $20 to $120, last an average of five years and slam, bang or sigh according to the hardware they are fitted with. 
But some homeowners are willing to pay for a door with more personality than aluminum and more durability than pine. About 15 years ago, Yvonne Hannemann and Penny Young, the owners of the New England Screen Door Company, stepped in with an appealing combination of enthusiasm and naivete. 
Today, working out of a former schoolhouse in Bristol, Me., they sell about 1,000 individually made doors a year, most costing $300 to $400. Their screen doors decorate the governor's mansion in Augusta and the homes of customers like Richard Gere, Yo-Yo Ma, Mary Steenburgen and Senator Olympia Snowe.
But the path to screen-door stardom has not always been smooth. "Our company," Ms. Young, 53, said on a sunny May afternoon near the Maine coast, "is a series of goofy stories and mishaps."
The two women, both sailing enthusiasts and Maine transplants, met accidentally on a boat ramp in 1984, talked about boats briefly, then did not see each other again for a full year. In their second conversation, they discovered they were both looking for odd-size screen doors, impossible to find at local lumberyards. Ms. Hannemann was primarily living in New York City, making documentary films. Ms. Young, a Massachusetts native, was working as a nurse. Neither had any woodworking experience, but they decided to solve their screen door problem by starting their own company.
Their business partnership began with a road trip up the Maine coast in 1986, a kind of cultural anthropology of the classic New England screen door. They came to the conclusion that the most appealing designs had been made by boat builders for the homes of sea captains. They took hundreds of pictures: basic rectangular frames, elaborate corner brackets and decorative spindles. 
"We'd jump out, see if people were home and march across their lawn," Ms. Young said.
Soon, with investment capital from their own savings, they bought and renovated the schoolhouse, purchased high-end European machinery, hired two craftsmen, found someone nearby who could make the screens and were ready to start.
There were few orders. Builders were not convinced that these two new arrivals -- trim, auburn-haired, looking more like figures from a Wyeth painting than hard-driving entrepreneurs -- could produce a quality product. Sometimes the women themselves were not sure. 
Ms. Hannemann, 66, says that machinery representatives hung up on her, timber companies ("in the Pine Tree State, no less") told her she could not buy clear pine from them because it had all been bought and paid for when the trees were seedlings. There was the freezing day when they watched in horror as an $18,000 ton-and-a-half European planer, just shipped across an ocean, crushed a trailer flat as it was offloaded in Brunswick. 
An imported clamping machine squeezed a redwood door "into splinters," as Ms. Young put it, because its new owners could not read the Italian directions. Customers, laboring under the illusion that hanging a screen door is simple, called and left measurements like this: "It's 40 plus 2 lines, by 7 feet plus 4 lines."
The learning curve was as steep as the sides of Mount Katahdin, so steep, in fact, that neither woman took home a salary for the first five years. Ms. Hannemann continued making films for corporate clients, and Ms. Young kept on with nursing.
The search for proper machinery and good advice was followed by a longer search for the perfect materials. They started with pine, but discovered that today's plantation-grown pine too often has a tendency to warp when exposed to the extremes of the New England seasons. They tried redwood, which was difficult for the machines to work and raised environmental issues. At last they stumbled upon South American cedar, one of 1,400 species in the mahogany family. Lighter than genuine mahogany, stable, resistant to decay and insects, easily worked, not harvested from rain forests, South American cedar has long been popular with makers of boat decks.
By the mid-1990's they had all the pieces of the puzzle in place: the right workers, the right wood, the right combination of office and workshop and, coincidentally, the right timing. Screen porches were then beginning to make a comeback. 
And screen-door expertise replaced their initial naivete. They now know, for instance, that because thresholds angle down and away from a house to shed water the bottom edge of a screen door should be beveled, not square. If you paint the door a dark color and hang it in a sunny spot, it will absorb heat quickly on summer days, causing a large temperature difference between the outside and inside faces, thus increasing the chances of warping. Unpainted doors need to be "treated like a boat," as Ms. Hannemann puts it, that is, protected with five or more coats of varnish.
They also learned that if a door edge is planed, it should be resealed immediately. After a piece of wood is cut, it needs to rest from the trauma to the grain before any assembly is done. They discovered that their preferred screening -- made from charcoal-anodized aluminum -- works well everywhere except right on the coast, where it tends to collect a salty residue. 
On the business side, Ms. Hannemann's college background in architecture and her marketing experience helped them come up with a corporate strategy: while New England Screen Door could easily make almost any size door -- screen, exterior, interior -- the partners concluded that it was wiser to sell their product through professionals and avoid getting into detailed telephone conversations with homeowners.
"Now we have a stable of architects and high-end builders who use us over and over again," Ms. Young said, and it is through architectural firms like Ryall Porter in Manhattan and builders like Peter Whitehead in Great Barrington, Mass., that the ex-neophytes have become, as Ms. Young facetiously puts it, "screen door makers to the stars." 
Charles Myer, a Cambridge, Mass., architect who discovered the New England Screen Door Company's products about 10 years ago, said: "They're beautifully made. Historically, the issue with screen doors is that for a long time there were only economy models, so people who do beautiful porches had to get their doors custom made."
Though the company is in Bristol, about an hour and a half north of Portland, most of its business comes from clients in a 600-mile stretch with Long Island at its center. To avoid mishandling and high shipping charges, and to foster face-to-face contact with customers, Ms. Hannemann personally delivers each door, traveling as far south as Washington and as far west as Albany, logging 45,000 miles annually on a Ford Econoline van.
There is little chance that they will move their enterprise elsewhere. "We're here in Maine because we want to be here in Maine," Ms. Young said. A visit to their airy and sunlit workshop (entered through a lilac-colored screen door) shows why. Though the company literature says that Bristol "consists of a flagpole and a small blue diner," that is not completely accurate: there is a fire station and a Congregational church, too. 
In warm weather, at least, the town is an ethereally pretty place, with huge old slate-roofed, shingle-sided barns sitting on fields overlooking coastal inlets.
The former schoolhouse, bought for $86,000 and expanded twice, has lots of natural light, a kitchen, a sales and design area, with nasturtium and tomato seedlings in trays on the windowsills and a workshop presided over by a former marine and master woodworker named Jody Perry, who says of his bosses, in a wry Down East accent, "I keep them in the office now."
Ms. Hannemann said she learned through trial and error that some of the hard-driving management techniques that served her in film producing made for disaster with the skilled craftsmen who have long populated the Maine coast. "I didn't realize that with men in woodworking, pointing out a flaw was a personal insult. In film, people have much thicker skins."
Now, after 17 years of struggle, they have a sense of being respected in woodworking circles and even time for a bit of philosophizing. "The slam of a screen door has always represented a sense of freedom for me," Ms. Young mused. 
Her partner chimed in: "It's very satisfying work. The product is basic. There's no spin, there's no jive. You need a door, it has to open and close. But it's the first thing you touch when you come to a house. It's the entrance to a person's life."
Keeps the black flies out, too. And that, in Maine, around this time of year, is no laughing matter.

The Made-to-Measure Screen Door
BEFORE you install a screen door, it is essential to take precise measurements -- from casing to casing, not from jamb to jamb as for an ordinary door. Allowance should also be made for the downward sloping bevel that fits against the threshold. 
The New England Screen Door Company makes interior and exterior doors using South American cedar. The screening is bronze, aluminum or fiberglass. (Glass panels are not included.) Prices start at about $300. The company prefers to work with architects and builders, and does not have a Web site; the number for a catalog is (212) 533-3023. 
Wood doors must be sealed and varnished or painted. They can be fitted with different hardware, including spring-loaded steel hinges, which are either brass-plated or primed and then painted. Some builders use hydraulic closers, but New England Screen Door recommends spring-loaded hinges because they do a better job of protecting the door in high winds. ROLAND MERULLO

GRAPHIC: Photos: BARRIER TO THE WILD -- New England Screen Door designs arise from Maine coast classics. (David Murray Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. F1); ENTRANCE MAKERS -- Above, Penny Young (left) and Yvonne Hannemann before doors they made at the Maine governor's mansion; far left, their office; left, Jonathan Perry, production chief. (Photographs by David Murray Jr. for The New York Times); KEEPERS -- Ms. Young in Wiscasset, Me., in 1986, the year that she and Ms. Hannemann went on a research trip to photograph Maine's vintage doors. Their favorites were on the coast, like the one at right. (The New England Screen Door Company, above and left)(pg. F9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); RETAIL LUMBERYARDS (72%); BOAT BUILDING (61%); SAILING (61%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%) HOUSING; SCREENS; DOORS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND SCREEN DOOR COMPANY; HOME DEPOT INC 

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (83%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (83%)

PERSON: OLYMPIA SNOWE (53%) MERULLO, ROLAND; YOUNG, PENNY; HANNEMANN, YVONNE

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) MAINE, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



287 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: An Online Tag Sale Goes Uptown 

BYLINE:  By DAVID COLMAN 

 BODY:
EVERY year, arrivistes land in New York, freighted with bags of money earmarked for impressing one and all. The centerpiece of this effort is usually a showplace done by a top decorator and calculated to dazzle the locals. Last year, it was Richard and Lisa Perry, whose redo of a Sutton Place penthouse appeared over 10 pages in the September issue of Vogue.
 This season, it is Beekman Place, not Sutton. And it's not one designer, it's six. It's not the social scene's latest aspirants, it's eBay. 
 EBay, based in San Jose, Calif., had revenues of $1.2 billion last year. But like many rich out-of-towners, eBay longs for a toehold in Manhattan. To counter a popular impression of eBay as a vast flea market whose wares belong on the set of "That 70's Show," the company has worked up its own version of that old chestnut, the designer show house. In a penthouse duplex currently on the market for $4 million, four interior designers, one junior style expert and one magazine editor transformed its seven rooms into an eBay fantasia, calculated to impress viewers with the riches eBay has on tap. 
The aim is to make consumers aware of the depth and breadth of available merchandise, Henry Gomez, a vice president for communications, said. 
And the timing is deliberate. Having started its largest advertising campaign late last year, the company is trying to overcome its image as a giant garage sale. "EBay's single biggest concern is getting people to understand that they sell more than collectibles and junk," said Carrie Johnson, a senior analyst at Forrester Research, consultants in Cambridge, Mass. "They've been very successful at getting early-adopter shoppers to buy, but the majority of U.S. shoppers don't understand the breadth of product available on eBay, or that they can buy things for fixed prices."
Mayer Rus, design editor of House & Garden, said, "They clearly want to make a statement that eBay isn't just obscure Hummel figurines, that people with truly adventurous design agendas can find something." 
To advertise that point, the company gave the six designers a budget based on room size, with a mandate to buy all or most of the furnishings on eBay. Jamie Drake, for example, was given $10,000 for the living room, and Glenn Gissler received $8,000 for a bathroom, kitchen and hallway. All six spent their entire budget or went slightly over it. The money was deposited into accounts on PayPal, a popular online payment service that eBay bought last year, in part to simplify the transaction process for its customers. The designers were given two months to shop, assemble and install. The results will go online starting Monday at www.ebay.com/showhouse. (The show house will be open in person only to the trade.) The rooms will be viewable in a 360-degree virtual tour until Oct. 23, when the contents will be auctioned, with 80 percent of the proceeds going to Alpha Workshops, a design studio that trains and employs people with H.I.V.
The show house is meant to demonstrate that there is something for everyone on eBay, but it also makes a contrary point: that shopping on eBay is not a simple task for everyone. While the six designers came to the project with varying tastes, what is most evident is their differing skill at using the medium to best effect. 
The most engaging rooms -- with a unified vision and good range of decor -- are clearly those of eBay veterans like Mr. Gissler and Tiffany Dubin. After seeing Marian McEvoy's impressive red dining room, it is no surprise that one seller wrote in the feedback section, "I nominate her for Queen of eBay!"
Ms. McEvoy, the flamboyant former editor of House Beautiful and Elle Decor, staple-gunned the walls with yards of bright red cotton duck, and trimmed them in black silk grosgrain ribbon ( $3 a spool). She dotted the room with fine-art prints, including a Motherwell silkscreen ($857.50), a Matisse lithograph ($340) and a Braque lithograph ($324). Finding a settee and six reproduction French provincial dining chairs ($1,536 for six), she reupholstered them in white cotton duck and festooned them, using a gluegun ($7), with cut-up embroidered suzanis, ceremonial cloths from Uzbekistan.
By contrast, the living room, done in a midcentury style by Mr. Drake, and the children's bedroom, by Laura Bonn, both new to eBay, are filled with new brand-name items, just the kind of thing eBay wants to emphasize. Mr. Drake, for instance, found several good-quality pieces of furniture, some of them local, which helped reduce shipping charges the buyer is obliged to pay. He found an almost-new linen-upholstered armchair by Portico; a pair of newly upholstered curved sofas ($1,275 for the pair); a new modern chandelier by Flos, a trendy Italian maker ($600); and a black chinoiserie secretary ($2,500). 
For the children's room, Ms. Bonn found a selection of good-quality new or newish items, including a winning pair of faux palm trees and a Donghia armchair. Her most inventive touch was a pair of sheer camouflage panels ($91.26) made into a scrim to separate a bed and crib. Ms. Bonn said she was surprised at how much brand-new merchandise she found, though sorting through it "takes a tremendous amount of time."
She said she also found it difficult to judge an object's size. Photographs on eBay rarely show objects with props that reveal their scale. As a result, Ms. Bonn said, she wasted time bidding on objects that were the wrong size. "You need to know what you're doing," she said. "It's not your average sport."
Mr. Drake's and Ms. Bonn's rooms show that it is possible to find new products on eBay, but their rooms lacked the polish and cohesive style of their more eBay-fluent colleagues, none of whom featured new products. Mr. Gissler's sophisticated, masculine hallway and Ms. Dubin's high kitsch sunroom, while wildly divergent in taste, both demonstrated that eBay is a treasure trove for people who are prepared to put on a helmet lamp and descend into the site for serious spelunking. 
"I would say that this project mirrored most of my experience on eBay," Mr. Gissler said. "I'm rarely disappointed, usually satisfied, and occasionally thrilled."
None of the professional designers said they planned to shop for clients on eBay. That comes as no surprise; designers generally rely on the standardized markups on costly furnishings for a portion of their fee, if not all of it. 
Asked what advice she would offer first-timers, Ms. McEvoy said that one should be prepared to enter the bidding with a game spirit. "You have to be ready to take a hit if it's not what you think it is," she said, adding that for her, disappointments had been infrequent. "You have to be willing to work with what you get." 
The eBay site may well win converts with its New York show house, and with the others the company is considering staging in other cities. (The company said it had not yet decided if the New York show house will be an annual event.) 
Still, it remains to be seen whether mainstream shoppers will be willing to give up the reassurance of ordering from stores like Ethan Allen or Pottery Barn, where furnishings can be inspected in person and returned to a known entity. 
Mr. Rus of House & Garden said he was among those who abstain from eBay for that reason, and his innate aversion may speak for the mainstream shopper. "I just don't have the patience for it," he said. "I love to see a thing, touch it. I love the act of shopping, and I am always happy to pay the upcharge for service and seduction."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 19, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about a show house in New York sponsored by eBay misspelled the surname of a participating designer. She is Laura Bohn, not Bonn.

GRAPHIC: Photos: WEB DESIGNER -- To decorate a show house room, Tiffany Dubin turned to eBay (inset), rounding up fabric, wallpaper and a $2,500 George Nelson daybed. (Meg Henson for The New York Times)(pg. F1); BUY LOW -- Jamie Drake, inset, designed a pink room on a $10,000 budget, bidding successfully for a secondhand Flos chandelier, a pair of curved sofas and an armchair with linen upholstery, left and above.; CLICK AND PASTE -- An eBay veteran, Marian McEvoy, below, bought fine art prints, red duck fabric, black silk ribbon and a gluegun. (Photographs by Meg Henson for The New York Times)(pg. F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (64%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (60%) INTERIOR DESIGN; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%); PAYPAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EBAY.COM 

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (50%)

PERSON: COLMAN, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



288 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Japan to Spend $16.5 Billion to Save Bank 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 12 

 BODY:
The Japanese government announced today that it would spend $25 billion to ease private pain: $8.5 billion to buy bonds issued by corporations and $16.5 billion to all but nationalize one of the nation's largest banks.
 In a country where corporate socialism is often preferred over creative destruction, investors greeted the market interventions with glee. The main stock market average, the Nikkei 225, briefly crossed above 9,000, about 1,000 points above the 21-year lows recorded here two months ago, before receding late in the day. 
 Resona Holdings, the troubled bank that the government is bailing out, was the darling stock of the day, topping all others in Japan in trading volume and rising 18 percent in price on the news that the government would aid the bank financially by buying a two-thirds ownership stake in it. 
More broadly, the Bank of Japan, the country's central bank, said it would buy up to 1 trillion yen ($8.5 billion) in asset-backed securities issued by corporations over the next three years. While the central bank has often bought government debt and otherwise intervened in financial markets, it has never before agreed to buy corporate debt securities. 
The bailout of Resona is an effort to keep the bank, which lends to thousands of small- and medium-size companies in the depressed industrial heartland around Osaka, from running out of capital and slipping into insolvency. The government will spend an amount equivalent to the gross national product of Ecuador.
The government is going ahead even though its own debts have risen to 150 percent of the country's gross domestic product, the highest rate for a major economy. Four years ago, Japan spent $78 billion to save four private banks. It now has just $21 billion worth of securities to show for that investment.
The government rescued Resona because "there was substantial risk of systemic risk to the financial system," an official at the Financial Services Agency, the country's chief regulatory body, told foreign reporters today. How long will the government have to stay involved in Resona? "We don't have any specific plan for when we will sell," the official said.
Some Americans hope that a "second generation" of Japanese bank bailouts, starting with Resona, will be done in a way that cleans up the banking industry. 
"I am especially heartened by the Japanese government's action to preserve the stability of the financial system in the recent case of Resona Bank," Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said Tuesday in New York at a Japan Society dinner. "The accelerated resolution of bad loans will provide a useful model as the Japanese government considers a new framework this summer."
But with Japan's economy showing little or no growth, bank lending in May was down 4.2 percent over last year's levels, the 65th consecutive month of decline. 
The Financial Services Agency has been criticized for contributing to Resona's problems by failing in its watchdog role. Kohei Ohtsuka, a legislator from the opposition Democratic Party of Japan, read in Parliament last week what he said was a six-page agency memo showing that agency officials pressed auditors last month to bend accounting rules to help Resona appear solvent. 
"There was an intense behind-the-scenes struggle over whether or not to reveal Resona's situation," Richard Katz, editor of The Oriental Economist, wrote this month. The June edition of Mr. Katz's newsletter includes a transcript of a telephone conversation that it says took place on May 10 between an agency official and a Resona executive. In it, the regulator assures the banker that Resona need not pay attention to the auditors' concerns about the bank's solvency.
A week later, the bank applied for government aid because its auditors had balked at approving its accounts.
Today in Parliament, Yashuhisa Katsuta, a former president of Resona Holdings, said that the bank's two auditing firms were responsible for the crisis at the bank. Addressing the Japanese people, he said, "I deeply apologize for the fact we will receive massive public money as a result."
In separate testimony before the same parliamentary committee, Kenji Takeyama, president of one of the auditing firms, Shin Nihon & Company, defended his firm's actions and denied that his company had had any improper contacts with the Financial Services Agency.
Mr. Katz said today in a telephone interview from his New York office that each new revelation about the cozy relationship between Resona and the regulatory agency would strengthen the hand of Heizo Takenaka, Japan's top banking regulator, in his efforts to purge the agency of officials accustomed to colluding with banks.
Last month, the four giant Japanese bank groups, excluding Resona, reported combined losses of nearly $31 billion for the fiscal year ended March 31.
Some Americans see opportunity in distress.
"There is obviously going to be tremendous focus on restructuring banks, restructuring insurance companies," said Lee D. Roberts, chairman of the Filenet Corporation of Costa Mesa, Calif. The company designs databases to help companies capture, store and manage information from varying computer systems, a problem facing the Japanese megabanks, which were created through often unhappy marriages of two or three smaller banks. 
"In times like this, we can walk into a major bank and show how to substantially automate back-office processes," Mr. Roberts said in an interview here, explaining why he had chosen this time to expand in Japan. "There is clear desire to get Japanese banking back on track. Five years ago, there was a reluctance to change."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenji Kawada, president of Resona Holdings, talks to reporters after a news conference in Tokyo. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); NEW ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); TRENDS (69%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (67%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING 

COMPANY: RESONA HOLDINGS INC (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (56%)

ORGANIZATION: RESONA HOLDINGS 

TICKER: 8308 (TSE) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

PERSON: KAWADA, KENJI; BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); OSAKA, JAPAN (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



289 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Hope onEconomy Extends Rally, and Dow Tops 9,100

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Wall Street extended its rally yesterday as investors shook off a warning from Texas Instruments and sent stocks higher on optimism about the economy. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed above 9,100 for the first time in 11 months.
 "The market momentum here is quite strong," said Steven Goldman, chief market strategist at Weeden & Company in Greenwich, Conn. "When we have a sustainable advance, market horizons tend to expand, with investors willing to look further into the future and shake off bad news." 
 The Dow industrials gained 128.33 points, or 1.4 percent, to close at 9,183.22. They have advanced in seven of the last eight sessions for a net gain of 343 points. It was the highest level since July 8, 2002, when the Dow finished at 9,274.90.
The broader market also rose. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 18.35 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,646.02. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 12.64 points, or 1.3 percent, to 997.48. It was the highest finish since June 20, 2002, when the index stood at 1,006.29.
Texas Instruments fell $1.53, to $18.86, after it lowered its second-quarter outlook, citing in part sluggish sales caused by fear of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, in Asia.
"What's interesting in my opinion is that we've seen pieces of bad news that the markets could have responded to negatively, but unlike the last couple of years, the market isn't responding," said Subodh Kumar, chief investment strategist for CIBC World Markets.
"When a company issued a warning or there was an accounting scandal, it used to tar the market, but now investors are just ascribing it to the individual company and not to the market as a whole," he said.
Stocks have surged in recent weeks on strong first-quarter earnings and hopes of an economic rebound by the end of the year. But with the Dow and S.& P. now trading at levels not seen in nearly a year, some traders say the market is ready for a pullback after moving upward so quickly.
Other analysts, however, say stocks are firmly on an upward path. Since hitting a five-year low of 7,286.27 on Oct. 9, 2002, for example, the Dow has risen about 25 percent.
"I believe we're in a bull market -- one that can carry the averages sustainably higher," said Mr. Goldman, citing in part low interest rates and the end of the war in Iraq.
Lennar, the home builder, surged $5.70, or 8.2 percent, to $75.45, after it said its fiscal second-quarter income rose 51 percent, handily beating analysts' expectations.
Eli Lilly advanced $2.96, to $63.19, after it raised its second-quarter earnings outlook to the upper end of its previous forecast; it also backed its full-year estimates.
I.B.M. rose $2.26, to $83.97, after Merrill Lynch added it to its highly recommended list of stocks.
Freddie Mac fell $1.50, to $50, after federal prosecutors began an investigation into possible misconduct.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Decline
(By Reuters) -- Treasuries lost steam yesterday after a report on the economy from the Federal Reserve fell short of bond bulls' pessimistic expectations, reducing hopes for a big cut in interest rates.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 6/32, to 103 15/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 3.22 percent from 3.19 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 7/32, to 117 30/32. The yield rose to 4.27 percent from 4.25 percent.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 5-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.744
High Yield: 2.680%
Low Yield: 2.610%
Median Yield: 2.660%
Total applied for: $27,134,852
Accepted: $15,000,128
Noncompetitive: $53,852
Interest set at: 2 5/8
The five-year notes mature May 15, 2008.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph tracks 5-year treasury notes, high yields at quarterly auctions, since 1999. (Source: Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); IRAQ WAR (69%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (67%); SARS (65%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (60%); ACCOUNTING (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SCANDALS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); WEEDEN & CO LP (57%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (53%); ELI LILLY & CO (50%)

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (58%); LLY (SWX) (50%); LLY (NYSE) (50%); LEL (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



290 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
New Rules Expected TodayOn Faster Wi-Fi Equipment

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
The leading standard-setting body for wireless communications equipment is expected to give final approval today to rules for designing gear in the Wi-Fi format that would operate at up to four times the speed of today's most popular Wi-Fi devices.
 Equipment makers and industry analysts expect final approval of the standard to prompt a new wave of investment by computer companies in building and marketing wireless devices that can connect to the Internet whenever they are near a Wi-Fi base station. 
 "Now there will be guaranteed interoperability," said Marc Cetto, the general manager for wireless networking at Texas Instruments, a leading chip maker. 
The new standard, which is being issued by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, is formally known as 802.11(g). The spread of laptop computers and other mobile electronic devices built to that standard will allow hot spots, as the base stations are known, to handle more users without interference or dropped connections. 
The new standard also makes it more practical to download bigger documents or multimedia presentations than today's leading standard, which is formally known as 802.11(b). It also is expected to enhance security for Wi-Fi users.
The new standard represents a compromise among competing proposals and is not the only Wi-Fi standard likely to gain widespread acceptance. Another standard, called 802.11(a) and already in use, is at least as fast and operates at a radio frequency that is less subject to disruption from microwave signals than that used by the (b) and (g) formats. But 802.11(a) operates over a much shorter range -- no more than 75 feet in most cases.
Both 802.11(b) and the new (g) variant can connect to a base station from up to 300 feet away, although performance in offices, airports and other busy environments is best within 150 feet. Moreover, because they operate at the same frequency, devices made to the new standard are expected to be compatible with the millions of 802.11(b) devices already deployed.
Some companies, anticipating today'sapproval, have already been shipping so-called pre-(g) chips and equipment incorporating earlier versions of the standard. In practice, such products have often proved incompatible with pre-(g) devices from other companies, causing them to default to the slower 802.11(b) performance or fail to connect to other devices altogether.
"People made assumptions that didn't pan out," said Stan Schatt, a wireless industry analyst with Forrester Research in San Diego. 
With publication of the final standards, analysts expect chip giants like Texas Instruments and computer makers like Hewlett-Packard, which have held back from the 802.11(g) market, to move rapidly into it. And companies that entered the market early are expected to issue software updates to bring their versions of the standard into line with those published today.
The market for Wi-Fi chips is expected to jump to $559 million this year, from $471 million last year, according to IDC, a market research firm. Kenneth Furer, an IDC analyst in Mountain View, Calif., predicted that 802.11(b) shipments would fall to 50 percent of Wi-Fi chips this year from 94 percent in 2002. By next year, he said, 802.11(g) will become the most popular form of Wi-Fi, but dual-band systems capable of handling both 802.11(g) and (a) will grow more rapidly. By 2007, he said, dual-frequency chips will account for nearly 80 percent of shipments.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A new equipment standard, known as 802.11(g), is expected to improve wireless communications and to prompt a wave of investment by computer companies in making and marketing Wi-Fi devices. (Susan Ragan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); MICROWAVE COMMUNICATIONS (69%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC (70%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS (83%) INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS 

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%); TXN (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



291 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Looking beyond free trade as a solution to helping the developing world.

BYLINE:  By Jeff Madrick; Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine and the journal Indicators, and he also teaches at Cooper Union and New School University. His new book is "Why Economies Grow," from Basic Books. E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
SINCE the Iraq war, developed nations like France and the United States seem to be vying to show that they care about the world's poor. The events of Sept. 11, 2001, made us all more aware of the deprived state of citizens around the world. The difficult aftermath of the war has also shown us that overthrowing a dictator is not enough to ensure security, economic opportunity and sustained decency.
 Interestingly, President Bush has taken the lead on these issues at home. His Democratic rivals for president are hardly heard on the subject. Mr. Bush has proposed a free trade region for the Middle East, a number of bilateral trade pacts, a 50 percent increase in international aid and a costly new program to combat AIDS. 
 But with the exception of the AIDS plan, is all this mostly talk? Economic development of Afghanistan seems to be faltering. And Mr. Bush's rationale is disturbingly ideological. "Across the globe, free markets and trade have helped defeat poverty, and taught men and women the habits of liberty," he said last month.
In the last decade, economists have discovered how much more difficult development is than just promoting trade and free markets. Despite the adoption of such policies in the developing world, poverty remains high, inequality at unacceptable levels, and economic growth poor. The Middle East, many agree, seems far from ready for free trade. The amount Mr. Bush plans to devote to nontrade reforms is peanuts.
What do economists know about growth? "At the more practical end of things -- how do we make growth happen? -- things have turned out to be somewhat disappointing," the Harvard economist Dani Rodrik writes in a fine summary of the state of development economics in the forthcoming "Handbook on Economic Growth" (North-Holland). That is an understatement. 
But the danger is to think that nothing has been learned in the last decade, or that the developed world has truly tried hard to help. 
A useful contribution to our understanding has been put together by the Center for Global Development and Foreign Policy magazine. It is an index -- based on a variety of components, not just quantity of aid -- that ranks the contribution developed nations make to the developing world.
Why an index? "A horse race attracts attention," said Nancy Birdsall, the center's president. It also helps broaden thinking about just what contributes to growth.
Even the highest-ranked nation, the Netherlands, scored only 5.6 out of a possible 10. But for the United States, the results are disturbing; second to last out of 21 nations, nosing out Japan.
Even though many factors are used in the index -- some debatable -- the United States, as a basic matter, gives so little to the developing world as a percentage of gross domestic product that its score is brought down significantly. In the days of the Marshall Plan, Ms. Birdsall notes, the United States spent 1 to 2 percent of its G.D.P. on aid. Now it spends 0.1 percent. President Bush says he would like to raise thatfigure to 0.15 percent, but his most recent budget made no allowance for that.
America's score is also reduced by other factors. The index penalizes nations for polluting the world, and America's carbon emissions are the highest of the 21. Surprisingly, our immigration policy is also more restrictive than in most other nations.
But we lead the pack in openness to imports, an urgent issue for many developing nations. European nations are significantly more closed to agricultural imports. Yet even here, our credibility has been hurt by Congress's recent protectionist farm bill, signed by Mr. Bush without a fight.
Although it certainly looks as if Mr. Bush is moving in the right direction, questions arise over his tenacity and whether his commitment to development will essentially be only about free trade. "Free trade agreements are at best only part of the solution," said Robert Z. Lawrence, a Harvard economist. "They must be complemented with other reforms."
What are those reforms? There seem to be two broad lessons to be drawn from recent experience. Perhaps most important, as Mr. Rodrik emphasizes, there is no single set of policies for all countries. Any one-size-fits-all strategy, including the formulaic demands of the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Treasury Department, can hurt more than help. 
In fact, he notes, Latin America came closest to following the precepts of the "Washington consensus," which includes budget discipline, deregulation and the liberalization of trade and finance, but the record has mostly been dismal. East Asian nations like South Korea and Taiwan, not to mention China, followed different, often contradictory paths to success.
The second lesson, closely related to the first, is to tap local strengths while constructing policies. David Ellerman, a consultant to the World Bank, argues that it is important to recognize what existing institutions can work in a nation and not impose rapid-fire Western-style privatization.
As an example, the Bush administration's anger toward the Baath Party in Iraq could backfire because the skilled technical and administrative people needed to rebuild Iraq turn out, inevitably, to have been party members. Most should be incorporated into developing the nation, not banished from it.
Similarly, a locally run regional development bank may now make sense for the Middle East. "Successful reforms are those that package sound economic principles around local capabilities, constraints and opportunities," Mr. Rodrik writes. This is also where liberty and democracy can matter. They are integral to respect for local concerns. 
Development is now clearly about elbow grease, not canned ideas. It is about tenacity and pragmatism, not political values or the export of ways of doing business that are congenial to our own companies. Now is the time to hold the Bush administration and others to their promises, and to broaden our thinking beyond slogans and ideology.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Ranking Developed Countries"Following are rankings, on a scale of 10, of how 21 developed countries contribute to growth in the developing world. 1. Netherlands -- 5.62. Denmark -- 5.53. Portugal -- 5.24. New Zealand -- 5.15. Switzerland -- 5.06. Germany -- 4.77. Spain -- 4.78. Sweden -- 4.59. Austria -- 4.410. Norway -- 4.311. United Kingdom -- 4.212. Belgium -- 4.013. Greece -- 3.914. France -- 3.815. Italy -- 3.616. Ireland -- 3.617. Finland -- 3.518. Canada -- 3.419. Australia -- 3.220. United States -- 2.621.Japan -- 2.4 (Source: Center for Global Development and Foreign Policy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); AIDS & HIV (75%); TRENDS (74%); AIDS POLICY (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); RANKINGS (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT (84%) CENTER FOR GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT AND FOREIGN POLICY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%) MADRICK, JEFF; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); FRANCE (91%); NETHERLANDS (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (77%); ITALY (72%); GERMANY (59%); AUSTRIA (57%) JAPAN

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



292 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Repays Last Bond From Crisis 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 11 

 BODY:
Mexico announced today that it was paying off the last of its $35 billion in Brady bonds, in a symbolic end to the 1980's debt crisis.
 This final series of Brady bonds is worth $1.284 billion and is denominated in European currencies. 
The Finance Ministry said it would use cash raised in recent debt sales to retire the bonds. 
The United States Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, who is visiting Mexico, said that the repayment reflected Mexico's commitment to orthodox fiscal and economic policies. Mexico's "deficit is the envy of most countries," Mr. Snow said during a joint appearance with Francisco Gil Diaz, Mexico's finance minister.
"If you get fiscal and monetary policy right, it pays you dividends because it reduces the markets' concerns about the economy," Mr. Snow said.
In April, Mexico paid off $3.84 billion in dollar-denominated Brady bonds. Brady bonds, named for former Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, were created to help heavily indebted Latin American countries restructure their foreign debts in 1989 and 1990.
Mexico's Finance Ministry said that this final repayment would reduce servicing charges on Mexico's foreign debt by $283 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CURRENCIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); MONETARY POLICY (53%) FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT 

PERSON: SNOW, JOHN W (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (59%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



293 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Sees Parking Lots As Vital for 'Smart Growth' 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: WEST ORANGE, N.J., June 11 

 BODY:
State and Essex County officials said today that they had reached an agreement to save and expand a commuter parking lot here, delivering a 500-space installment on Gov. James E. McGreevey's vow to create 20,000 additional spaces statewide over five years.
 The McGreevey administration has made commuter parking a centerpiece of its so-called smart growth policies, which seek to promote mass transit and decrease automobile traffic on state roads. 
 The agreement today expands a lot adjacent to the South Mountain Arena and the Turtle Back Zoo, which now has about 300 overcrowded spaces that were endangered by insurance liability problems. The site will include an expanded, three-level parking structure, to be built for $8 million and open to commuters by next May for a small fee.
The Essex County executive, Joseph N. DiVincenzo, said that safe and economical county operation of the lot, which now serves commuters connecting with express buses into New York City or Newark's Penn Station, had become "impossible" in recent years even as its need increased. There is currently no fee at the lot. In intensive lobbying of Governor McGreevey and his administration over the last six months, he said, he convinced them to help out.
Mr. McGreevey said today that despite the state's $5 billion deficit, it still planned to spend about $2.5 billion on roads, mass transit and commuter parking over the next year.
"We are doing this because we recognize its importance to our quality of life," Mr. McGreevey said at a news conference today. "These must be our first options and not our last options, but adding new mass transit services are meaningless if motorists can't find parking spaces."
In an interview after the news conference, Mr. McGreevey acknowledged that unlike Essex County and West Orange, some communities continued to see such parking structures as more a blight than a benefit. But he insisted that "we are changing the culture" with the extensive statewide debate he was encouraging on "smart growth."
The 500 spaces at the West Orange location are part of a total of nearly 5,800 in 6 counties and 17 municipalities for which the state has already secured funds.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. James E. McGreevey, left, and Essex County officials announcing a plan for a 500-space commuter parking lot in West Orange, N.J. (Timothy Ivy for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (92%); COUNTIES (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (79%); LOBBYING (79%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); INTERVIEWS (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; COMMUTING; BUSES 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) WEST ORANGE (NJ); NEW JERSEY; ESSEX COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



294 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: In a Tax Battle, McGreevey Criticizes Casino Executives 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 11 

 BODY:
Gov. James E. McGreevey today raised the stakes in his showdown with New Jersey's casino industry, unveiling a campaign-style radio ad that accuses "millionaire casino C.E.O.'s" of shirking their responsibility to help the state close its budget gap and forcing homeowners, older residents and middle-class families to pay higher taxes.
 Last month, casino industry officials took to the airwaves to criticize Mr. McGreevey's call for a new casino tax, intended to raise at least $90 million, with radio ads predicting that the tax increase would cost thousands of jobs and scuttle plans for new construction projects in Atlantic City. 
 With negotiations on the issue stalled and the governor trying to close a projected $5 billion budget gap by the end of the legislative session on June 23, the Democrats responded today with their own ad. In it, Mr. McGreevey boasts about his effort to balance the budget without raising the sales and income taxes and chastises the casino industry, which has not had a tax increase in 25 years.
"When the casinos pick a fight with New Jersey's working families, they've chosen the wrong target," he says in the spot. "That's why I'm fighting to put the odds on our side."
The increasingly shrill political battle over casinos is something of an anomaly in New Jersey politics. In the quarter-century since legalized gambling began in Atlantic City, the casino industry has been regulated heavily and taxed moderately but has usually been treated gingerly by elected officials from both parties.
Senator William L. Gormley, a Republican from Atlantic County and the casino industry's strongest supporter, argues that Mr. McGreevey is unwise to vilify the industry because it now employs 50,000 and has become the economic engine of South Jersey.
But other observers, including some Republicans, suggest that casinos are a juicy, and welcome, target for Mr. McGreevey, whose public approval ratings have been hampered by the budget crisis.
"It's a great political opportunity for Jim McGreevey," said Peter J. McDonough, who was communications director for former Gov. Christie Whitman.
"Here's someone who personifies glitz, glamor and greed -- someone like Donald Trump and Steve Wynn -- and he gets to push back against that. The only thing better than that, politically speaking, would be a border war with New York."
When Mr. McGreevey originally proposed $135 million in tax increases on casinos in his budget plan early this year, the financial and political fallout was swift and severe. The stock market value of resort companies operating in Atlantic City fell by more than half a billion dollars the first day and Bally's postponed a major construction project. 
Republicans vowed to kill the tax. And when the McGreevey administration proposed a plan to allow video slot machines at racetracks, the uproar only intensified.
Although the video slot proposal has been dropped bythe McGreevey administration, the casino industry issued its trenchant radio ads, accusing the governor of unfairly trying to balance his budget on the backs of the service workers employed in Atlantic City. 
That high-profile lobbying was a departure for casino executives, who have traditionally enjoyed a laissez-faire relationship with state leaders in Trenton.
During negotiations with legislators and casino industry executives, the governor's office has reportedly dropped its call for a $45 million tax on free rooms, food and entertainment given to high rollers. 
But Mr. McGreevey is said to be reluctant to reduce the proposed tax from $90 million, arguing that New Jersey taxes casinos far less than other states with legalized gambling do.
The narrator whose voice appears in the radio ad with Mr. McGreevey makes that argument even more forcefully, portraying casino executives as corporate fat cats who are reluctant to pay their fair share.
But Mr. Gormley predicts that the radio ad, paid for by the Democratic State Committee, will backfire.
"He's trying to focus on the C.E.O.'s, but it's not the C.E.O.'s," he said. "They can go to another state and invest their money there. It's the waiters and waitresses and plumbers and carpenters. Where are they going to go?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (96%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RADIO ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); GAMING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); SALES TAX (77%); FAMILY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); RESORTS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); POLITICS (70%) TAXATION; CASINOS; GAMBLING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SALES TAX; POLITICAL ADVERTISING 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (58%); STEPHEN A WYNN (57%) KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



295 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Kidnappers in Separatist Georgian Region Free 4 U.N. Workers 

BYLINE:  By DEXTER FILKINS 

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia, June 11 

 BODY:
Four United Nations employees kidnapped last week in a secession-minded region of the country were released by their abductors on Tuesday night and returned here to the capital today.
 The four -- two Germans, a Dane and a Georgian -- spent nearly six days in captivity after being taken at gunpoint last Thursday by a group of unknown men in the Kodori Gorge, a remote area divided between Georgian forces and those loyal to leaders of the breakaway region of Abkhazia. 
The United Nations workers were part of a team that monitors a cease-fire agreement, struck in 1993, between the Georgian government and the Abkhazian leaders. 
After demanding $3 million in ransom, the kidnappers agreed to release the four in exchange for a guarantee that they would be allowed to leave the area without being arrested.
Georgian television showed the hostages, unshaven and dirty, celebrating their release with food and wine in a village before heading to Tbilisi by helicopter.
They offered few comments on their arrival here. Georgian officials said that at least some of the four had been injured during their abduction. No ransom was paid, the officials said.
"They are in shock," Peter Mamradze, deputy state minister for the Georgian government, said shortly after the release.
It was the fourth such kidnapping of United Nations monitors. Each time, they have been released relatively unharmed, and without ransom being paid. In October 2001, a United Nations helicopter was shot down over the Kodori gorge, killing nine people on board. It was not clear who shot the aircraft down.
Members of the American military, who take part in the operation, are not permitted to be based in areas close to the cease-fire line.
While the motivations of the kidnappers in the current case are unclear, Georgian officials said they suspected that the crime might have had a political component. Some said they thought it had been the work of the Russian government, or at least some members of it, who wanted to embarrass Georgian leaders.
Relations between Georgia and Russia have been strained since the two countries emerged from the breakup of the Soviet Union.
In the early 1990's, Abkhazia mounted an effort to secede from Georgia and largely succeeded; the Georgian government accused Russia of intervening on Abkhazia's behalf. Though Abkhazia is not recognized internationally, it has established de facto independence from Georgia.
In recent months Russian leaders have accused Georgia of harboring rebels from the secessionist region of Chechnya, and last September threatened to invade the country if it did not do more to contain them. In the kidnapping that just ended, Georgian officials pointed out, a team of Russian soldiers who were supposed to protect the observers were freed by the kidnappers almost immediately.
The last few months have seen something of a thaw in Russian-Georgian relations. In March, the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, and the Georgian president, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, proposed several joint economic projects, including the establishment of rail service between Russia and the Georgian capital.
Some Georgian officials suggested that elements of the Russian government or military might have used the kidnapping to freeze relations again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); HELICOPTERS (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); ARRESTS (68%); ARMED FORCES (64%) HOSTAGES; KIDNAPPING; RANSOM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (54%) FILKINS, DEXTER 

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) GEORGIA (GEORGIAN REPUBLIC); ABKHAZIA (GEORGIAN REPUBLIC); GERMANY; DENMARK; TBILISI (GEORGIAN REPUBLIC)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



296 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Fed Says Economy May Be Set to Rebound 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11 

 BODY:
The weak economy, which has suffered thousands of job losses in recent months, may be on the verge of a rebound now that the Iraq war is over, the Federal Reserve said today.
 The Fed said that 4 of its 12 districts -- Dallas, Kansas City, New York and Minneapolis -- detected signs of increased economic activity and no district reported further deterioration since the last report in late April. 
 "The unwinding of war-related concerns appears to have provided some lift to business and consumer confidence, but most reports suggest that the effect has not been dramatic," the central bank said in its latest survey of business conditions. 
The central bank cautioned against reading too much into the scattered signs of a rebound, describing overall activity in many districts as still "sluggish, subpar or subdued."
The survey of business conditions, known as the beige book, will be used by Fed policy makers when they meet on June 24-25 to set interest rates.
Many analysts are convinced that the Fed will reduce rates for a 13th time in this round of cuts in an effort to make sure that the current weak patch the country is experiencing does not deepen into something worse.
The beige book said that consumer spending remained lackluster in May, with retail sales rebounding at the end of the Iraq war but remaining below levels of a year ago. Many analysts say they believe that consumer spending will remain depressed until the unemployment rate turns around.
The jobless rate hit a nine-year high of 6.1 percent in May, the government reported last week, even though the pace of layoffs slowed somewhat.
The Fed's survey detected some improvements in the manufacturing sector, which has suffered 34 consecutive months of job losses. Three districts -- New York, Minneapolis and Cleveland -- reported an increase in manufacturing activity. But three others -- Philadelphia, Richmond and Boston -- indicated further deterioration. The remaining six Fed districts said there had been little change in industrial activity, which they reported remained sluggish.
The survey found that agricultural production was impaired by unusually wet weather in many parts of the country, with rain delaying spring planting in the Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, Richmond and St. Louis districts.
Yet, the Fed reported that crop conditions remained too dry in the Dallas district, where farmers delayed planting cotton because of inadequate moisture to germinate the seeds.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "After War, Economy Remained Stalled in Most Areas"A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserves 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday. New York -- The economy showed signs of improvement. The labor market appeared to be strengthening in New York City. Cleveland -- Manufacturers had steady or improved production and sales. The retail market remained soft, and auto sales slowed. Richmond, Va. -- Softness persisted in retailing and manufacturing. Falling mortgage rates boosted home sales. Atlanta -- The economy was subdued, with retail sales driven by discounting. Commercial real estate remained weak. Chicago -- Sluggish economic activity was reported. The end to the war did not bring the boost many had expected. St. Louis -- The regions economy remained soft as weak sales forced businesses to close factories. Retail sales showed little change. Minneapolis -- Growth was reported in residential real estate, manufacturing, consumer spending and agriculture. Kansas City, Mo. -- The economy improved slightly. Manufacturing was sluggish and commercial real estate remained soft. Retail sales improved. San Francisco -- The region's economy is sluggish. There were scattered signs of improvement in some areas, including residentialreal estate. Dallas -- The rebound is slow and inconsistent. Agriculture has been hurt by a lack of rain. Manufacturing is mixed and retail sales are weak. Philadelphia -- Manufacturers reported falling orders and shipments. Auto sales improved, but retail sales were weaker. Boston -- New England's economy remained stalled. Manufacturers reported more weakness in demand. Retail sales met targets. (Source: Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (76%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (75%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (65%); AGRICULTURE (60%); COTTON FARMING (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%) DALLAS (TEX); KANSAS CITY (MO); NEW YORK CITY; MINNEAPOLIS (MINN)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



297 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: The University of California Names Insider as President 

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY 

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., June 11 

 BODY:
The University of California Board of Regents today chose an insider, Robert C. Dynes, to be the new president of the nine-campus university system. For the last seven years, Dr. Dynes has been chancellor at the University of California at San Diego.
 Dr. Dynes, 60, a physicist from Canada who once considered a career as a professional hockey player, will succeed Richard C. Atkinson, who announced last fall that he would retire in October 2003. Dr. Dynes will step into what is considered one of the most influential and prestigious jobs in public education. The system, the nation's largest, has 192,000 students and 157,000 faculty and staff members. 
 Officials said Dr. Dynes was chosen from a field of nearly 300 candidates, including chancellors at other University of California campuses and Laura D'Andrea Tyson, a top economic official in the Clinton administration who is now dean of the London Business School.
The regents' vote was taken behind closed doors, and the breakdown of the vote was not disclosed. A separate vote on a compensation package for Dr. Dynes, including an annual salary of $395,000, was approved 18 to 1.
"I am overwhelmed, there is no doubt about it," Dr. Dynes told a meeting here of the regents after being welcomed with a standing ovation. In prepared remarks, he added later: "I believe education is the single most important thing we do. In the process we create new knowledge."
Judith Block McLaughlin, chairwoman of the Harvard Seminar for New Presidents, said that educators around the nation would be looking to Dr. Dynes for leadership. "In the same way that Harvard is a bully pulpit for private research universities, the presidency of the University of California system is a bully pulpit for public research universities," she said. 
During his tenure as president, Dr. Atkinson was instrumental in reshaping college admissions across the nation. He encouraged the overhaul of the SAT and was an important player in a national debate over affirmative action.
Dr. Dynes will take over at a time when the University of California faces severe financial problems because of state and federal cutbacks. 
The system is slated for about $300 million in cuts in Gov. Gray Davis's proposed state budget. At the same time, pressure for the system to grow is greater than ever, with a 10th campus under construction in Merced to open next year.
By next year, university officials estimate, enrollment in the system will have grown by 18 percent over three years, while state financing over the same period will have fallen by 6 percent. The system has an annual budget of $13 billion, about $3 billion of which comes from the state.
"There is an enormous amount at stake, and the new president comes in having to hold the line," said David Ward, president of the American Council on Education, a Washington-based lobbying group for the nation's colleges and universities. 
At a news conference, Dr. Dynes said he would be inclined to limit student enrollment if the budget crisis forced choices between quality and size.
"We are under severe budget pressure right now and the one thing I will not compromise is the quality of the university," he said. "If we need to adjust the growth, we will do that until we find the funds."
Dr. Dynes will take his new post as the University of California faces criticism in Congress over its administration of three federal research labs, including the Los Alamos Laboratory in New Mexico, where some employees have been accused of fraud.
For the first time, the Energy Department will seek competing bids to run Los Alamos when the university's current contract ends in September 2005. The university has overseen the lab since it was established during World War II to create an atomic bomb.
Dr. Dynes, who worked for 22 years at AT&T Bell Laboratories before becoming a professor of physics in 1991 at the University of California at San Diego, has a long affiliation with the lab. He is a member of the lab's oversight board, and has served as an adviser and consultant to the physics research and weapons programs.
At a news conference, John G. Davies, the regent who led the search committee for a new president, said Dr. Dynes's knowledge of the national labs was "a very important factor" in his selection. 
Sidney Drell, professor emeritus of physics at Stanford University, who is a member of the Los Alamos oversight committee, said that by choosing Dr. Dynes the regents sent a message that they were serious about correcting problems at the labs.
"He is the one I would have voted for had I been a regent," Professor Drell said. "He knows the background of the labs, and he certainly understands very well the science that is going on."
At the news conference, Dr. Dynes was circumspect about his approach to the labs and other issues he might face, saying it was too early to take positions. He said he would first consult widely.
"One of the things I do know how to do well is listen," Dr. Dynes said. 
Joel Dimsdale, a professor of psychiatry and chairman of the Academic Senate, a faculty body at the University of California at San Diego, said Dr. Dynes had a reputation there of doing just that.
"I look at him as a duck on the water," Professor Dimsdale said. 
Growing up in London, Ontario, Dr. Dynes said he dreamed of becoming a professional athlete. "I was a pretty good hockey player," he said.
He described his decision to attend college as "almost an accident" after he was pressured by his mother, a nursery school teacher, and some high school teachers to give up his hockey dreams. A naturalized United States citizen, he holds a bachelor's degree in mathematics and physics from the University of Western Ontario and master's and doctorate degrees in physics from McMaster University. He immigrated to the United States in 1968.
"I am a first-generation college graduate whose life was transformed by educational opportunity," Dr. Dynes said.
He said there were other benefits of giving up his dream of professional hockey.
"I still have my teeth as well," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 13, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the appointment of a president by the University of California misstated a distinction of the institution. It is the country's largest public research university system; the largest senior university system is California State.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert C. Dynes, with his wife, Frances, at a Regents session. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (65%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ENROLLMENT; FINANCES; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (94%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%) UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (SAN DIEGO); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY 

PERSON: MURPHY, DEAN E; DYNES, ROBERT C (DR); ATKINSON, RICHARD C 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



298 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word on the Web, Isaac Newton's Secret Musings 

BYLINE:  By PETER DIZIKES 

 BODY:
JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES called them "fascinating" and read them in taxis. Albert Einstein called them "unique treasures." But for roughly 300 years, just a handful of people had ever seen Isaac Newton's voluminous writings on alchemy and theology. Now that is changing, thanks to a group of scholars who are making them available on the Internet. 
 The Newton Project, a joint effort based at the University of London, aims gradually to post all of the scientist's previously unpublished work at a Web site (www.newtonproject.ic.ac.uk), including thousands of pages of alchemical and theological writings and, eventually, someof his optical studies. The material, which may take 15 to 20 years to finish transcribing, will be accompanied by high-resolution images of the manuscripts. 
The enterprise was founded in 1998 by a small group of Newton scholars who had grown tired of seeing the complete writings of other important thinkers published only as expensive multivolume editions that would invariably languish in a few academic libraries.
 "In these projects in the past, you've got scholars who produce very high-quality printed texts for about three people," said Rob Iliffe, a historian at the University of London and a co-founder of the project. "Ordinary people who've funded these things, taxpayers, don't have access." 
 For the Newton Project, said Dr. Iliffe, "My image was of something that would be available to anybody with a computer -- an 8-year-old kid, an intelligent lay reader, a university scholar."
 But Newton is famous for his work in physics and mathematics. Why publish his thoughts about religion or alchemy?
 "Newton did not compartmentalize himself," said Mordechai Feingold, a historian of science at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, Calif., who is an adviser to the project and the curator of an exhibition on Newton's influence that is to open at the New York Public Library next year. "To understand the man himself, we must understand the various facets of his own activities."
 Other Newton scholars, while intrigued, are taking a wait-and-see approach. "The question is how much light it will shed on Newton and the emergence of Newtonian science," said Alan Shapiro, a historian of science at the University of Minnesota. 
 But George E. Smith, a philosopher of science at Tufts University in Medford, Mass., said there was no clear distinction in Newton's time between chemistry and alchemy and that he expected the papers to reveal much about 17th-century science. "He did a huge amount of chemistry," he said. "It's a broad form of investigation characteristic of the time. No one has really worked through those manuscripts in any detail." 
 Newton spent years studying alchemy, using furnaces in his Cambridge rooms to conduct experiments. He wrote thousands of pages in his notebooks about religion but kept his views almost completely secret. Although loyal to the Church of England, he feared that his anti-trinitarian beliefs -- he thought that regarding Christ as God was a sin -- would destroy his career.
 Enhancing the mystery in this side of Newton, the alchemical and theological papers remained in private hands from Newton's death in 1727 until they were sold at a Sotheby's auction in London in 1936. Among the buyers was Keynes, the legendary Cambridge economist and monetary expert, who scooped up the bulk of the alchemical writings chiefly to save them. 
 Keynes then donated his holdings to Kings College, Cambridge, though not before studying Newton in his spare time. "There are stories that Keynes read these things in taxis going from one Treasury meeting to the next," Dr. Iliffe said. 
 Many of Newton's theological writings were purchased from Sotheby's by Abraham Yahuda, an iconoclastic scholar who enlisted the services of Einstein, a close friend, in an effort to resell them. Despite letters from Einstein vouching for the papers' importance, several prominent American universities are said to have declined to acquire the collection, which wound up in a Jerusalem archive. In all, nearly 40 libraries, from Jerusalem to Geneva to Los Angeles, now own portions of Newton's work; bits of it have circulated on microfilm.
 Over all, an estimated 2.7 million words are to be transcribed from Newton's small, right-slanting handwriting on pages littered with crossed-out words, revisions and equations. 
 A zoom tool at the Web site can be used to magnify the scanned images of Newton's original manuscripts, making it easier for users to read them. The site is adding a search engine this year so that readers can find recurring topics in the sprawl of Newton's work. Web publishing also gives the project the ability to incorporate scholarly revisions and commentaries nearly instantly.
 With people perusing the works on the Internet, Dr. Iliffe said, the Newton Project can also receive valuable assistance from around the globe. "People who are interested can write to us and say, 'Look, we've discovered a mistake in your transcriptions,"' he said. "There is a sense in which end-users can become part of the authorial team."
 In the meantime, the project's scholars face new challenges. Their main financing, a five-year British government grant, expires in 2004. Another concern is ensuring that their software does not become obsolete by the time the project is completed. "The one deep problem about electronic scholarship is we don't know how it will be preserved in the long run," Dr. Smith said. The Newton Project's transcriptions are now being coded in XML, but members say they are wary of being derailed by changing standards. For this reason, they are considering an eventual print companion to the site.
 If the Newton Project seems like an unending effort, the team can always draw inspiration from the scientist himself. "Newton never thought anything he did was finished," Dr. Iliffe said. "He was constantly revising his work and he was never satisfied."

GRAPHIC:  Photos: ACCESS -- "My image was of something that would be available to anybody with a computer," said Rob Iliffe, a University of London historian and co-founder of the Newton Project. Its Web site, top left, offers transcriptions and scanned images of little-known Newton manuscripts. (Steve Forrest for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); HISTORY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHYSICS (78%); RELIGION (77%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (76%); LIBRARIES (73%); PHILOSOPHY (72%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (67%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF LONDON 

PERSON: NEWTON, ISAAC (1642-1727); DIZIKES, PETER; FEINGOLD, MORDECHAI

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); MINNESOTA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (68%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



299 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Supporters Object to Efforts To Alter Ground Zero Plan 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
A coalition of civic and planning organizations said yesterday that Daniel Libeskind's plan for the World Trade Center site is in danger of being undermined by business and community groups that have proposed changes to it and by the companies that hold leases to the site.
 But rebuilding officials and others involved in the process disputed the criticisms, saying that they are working together and that few if any decisions will be made without Mr. Libeskind's support. In addition, rebuilding officials said they had all but ruled out some of the proposed changes that are the most worrisome to the planning groups that spoke yesterday. 
 Officials of the group, the Civic Alliance to Rebuild Downtown New York, said Larry A. Silverstein, the developer who controls the office space at the site, and others were pressuring rebuilding officials to accept changes to the Libeskind plan. 
If carried out, those changes could take the soul out of Mr. Libeskind's plan and undermine the public process that created it, said Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, one of the organizers of the Civic Alliance, which comprises more than 75 civic, labor, business, academic and community groups. 
For example, one of the chief objections voiced yesterday by Civic Alliance officials concerned a proposal by some groups of downtown residents to place the memorial at ground level, rather than 30 feet below ground, as Mr. Libeskind has proposed. The change would allow residents of Battery Park City to cross the site more easily to reach subway lines and commercial and cultural developments.
Kevin Rampe, the interim president of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, the lead rebuilding agency, said in an interview yesterday that although the memorial setting will be determined by the jury overseeing the memorial design competition, it must be consistent with the Libeskind design.
"It's hard to imagine that any memorial plan that would fill the bathtub area to ground level would be consistent with the Libeskind plan," Mr. Rampe said, referring to the sunken memorial area. "The entire memorial area will not be filled in."
Family members of people killed at the trade center on Sept. 11, 2001, also have expressed their desire to see the Libeskind plan maintained. At a recent meeting with members of the memorial jury, some family members also called on the jurors to closely follow the mission statement and design guidelines that the family members helped to develop, according to a transcript of the session released by the development corporation. The meeting, on May 27, was closed to the public.
The development corporation and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the trade center site, have also agreed that although Mr. Libeskind's design will provide the basis for the development of the site's office buildings, other architects will be hired to do detailed designs of the office buildings and retail space.
According to a memorandum of understanding between the two agencies, which is scheduled to take effect within a few days, those designs will be completed in cooperation with Mr. Silverstein and Westfield America, the shopping center company that holds the lease to retail space at the trade center site. 
That has led to fears among some members of the Civic Alliance that the buildings will not resemble the designs in Mr. Libeskind's signature images, but instead be boxy structures indistinguishable from other downtown office towers. These members also fear that retail space will infringe on what some people call the sacred nature of the memorial site.
Mr. Libeskind said yesterday that that is not the case. "I'm not the only architect who will be working on the entire 16-acre site," he said. "There will be many, many others working in big teams." But his design "will be at the nexus, at the core of the project," he added. "I'll be very involved. I'm not going to be there just as some form of critic." 
Howard J. Rubenstein, a spokesman for Mr. Silverstein, said he "supports the Libeskind plan." 
"There will necessarily be refinements as the concepts are developed," Mr. Rubenstein said. "But it will be a consensual process among the various agencies, stakeholders, Libeskind and other professionals." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (91%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); HIJACKING (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (69%); JURY TRIALS (68%); TERRORISM (60%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (61%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (61%)

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD; LIBESKIND, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



300 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: O.A.S. Votes Against U.S. Candidate for Human Rights Group 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, June 11 

 BODY:
In a symbolic rebuke to the Bush administration, the member nations of the Organization of American States have for the first time voted to exclude the United States from representation on the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, considered the most prestigious human rights monitoring body in the Western Hemisphere.
 The decision came at the end of the three-day annual assembly of the O.A.S., held this year in Santiago, Chile, and attended by Secretary of State Colin L. Powel. Addressing the conference on Monday, Mr. Powell condemned a recent wave of executions and imprisonments in Cuba and urged the 34-member regional group to help "hasten the inevitable democratic transition in Cuba." 
 Lou Fintor, a spokesman for the State Department, said today that "the United States is disappointed that our candidate was not elected to the Inter-American Human Rights Commission" but "we remain strong supporters of the commission and the inter-American human rights system in general." 
Created in 1959, the commission is an arm of the O.A.S. that observes and investigates human rights conditions throughout the Western Hemisphere and has processed 12,000 complaints or petitions of violations in member states. It consists of seven representatives elected to four-year terms, who are supposed to demonstrate "recognized competence in the field of human rights."
In private, several nations were critical of what they characterized as Mr. Powell's excessive and narrow focus on Cuba at the expense of other issues. The theme of this year's assembly, which ended Tuesday, was "Democratic Governability in the Americas," which most delegations saw as an opportunity to express concern about growing social inequities and flagging economic growth in the region.
"There is a readiness among member states to talk about Cuba, but in a balanced way, and not only about human rights," a senior O.A.S. official said in a meeting with reporters Monday in Santiago. "Many states, some of Latin America and all of the Caribbean," he said, also "want to talk about the isolation of Cuba, the embargo, and all of that.
"That is the problem," the official added. The Bush administration, he said, "has a very strong position, so there really is some difficulty in dealing with the issue of Cuba only in relation to human rights."
But the negative vote also appeared to reflect widespread doubts about the qualifications of the American candidate, Rafael E. Martinez. Born in Cuba, Mr. Martinez is an Orlando, Fla., lawyer best known for his expertise in medical malpractice and health law. He is a brother of Melquiades R. Martinez, the secretary of housing and urban development and a leading fund-raiser for the presidential campaign of George W. Bush among Cuban-Americans in Florida.
"Clearly, the person they put forward, whatever his merits, did not have a very impressive background in human rights," said Michael Shifter, vice president for policy at Inter-American Dialogue, a research group in Washington. Mr. Martinez's nomination, he added "showed not just a sort of indifference to a major regional political organization on the part of the administration, but also the growing distrust on the other side about what the U.S. agenda and motives are."
Mr. Fintor, the State Department spokesman, said, "We don't want to speculate on why he wasn't elected." But he described Mr. Martinez as "a well-qualified candidate." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); FUNDRAISING (68%); PETITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (50%); CITIES (50%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; CUBAN-AMERICANS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (91%); INTER-AMERICAN COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS (91%) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES; INTER-AMERICAN COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) ROHTER, LARRY; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); MARTINEZ, RAFAEL E; MARTINEZ, MELQUIADES RAFAEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (91%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (96%); CHILE (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%) CUBA; FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



301 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: BLOCKS; 
Reclusive Developer Conjures Accessible Space

BYLINE:  By David W. Dunlap 

 BODY:
COULD it be that one of New York's more reclusive developers is building one of the city's most publicly accessible private spaces?
 Grandly scaled "rooms" -- courtyards, galleries and atriums -- are defining new commercial towers, much as plazas once provided settings for skyscraping corporate icons. Unlike plazas, however, these interior spaces are not technically public. Some will be more welcoming than others. 
 Though Steven Roth, the chairman of Vornado Realty Trust, stays out of the public eye, it appears that the elliptical courtyard of his project at 731 Lexington Avenue will invite the public with open arms. This mixed-use development between 58th and 59th Streets has been designed by Cesar Pelli & Associates, architects of the Winter Garden at Battery Park City.
The courtyard at 731 Lexington Avenue received the blessing of Michael R. Bloomberg before he became mayor, the architects said. Because the headquarters of Bloomberg L.P. will wrap around the courtyard, Mr. Bloomberg visited the Pelli office in New Haven to inspect renderings and models.
"Bloomberg himself was quite captivated by the idea of the space," said Rafael Pelli, a principal in the firm that bears his father's name. "No one knew how he'd react, because it came at the cost of larger floors. But he loved it. He saw how it could bring personality to the project."
Its personality might be described as a distantly abstract kin of the tiny piazzas that punctuate the dense urban fabric of Venice. But in this stainless-steel-and-glass version, there is not a right angle to be seen. The curving walls are gently canted inward, seven-and-a-half degrees, as they rise 110 feet. That tapering perspective forces one's gaze skyward. Stepping into this upside-down bowl is pleasantly disorienting, as if one had been momentarily liberated from Manhattan's orthogonal grid.
Architectural bravura alone does not distinguish the space, however. Its utility will come from having openings at both ends, meaning that pedestrians and some vehicles will be able to pass through from 58th to 59th Street most of the time.
"That is what makes it truly public," Cesar Pelli said. "If it were a dead end, people wouldn't come in. They would think it was a private court."
As a further lure, the courtyard's north portal frames an inviting view of the noblest portion of Bloomingdale's hybrid facade: grand, arched window bays in an 1893 midblock annex on 59th Street.
Formally designated Beacon Court, the open space at 731 Lexington Avenue amounts to 12,683 square feet. Bloomberg headquarters will fill the base of the building, running to Third Avenue. There will be apartments in the upper 24 floors of the 55-story, 813-foot tower on the Lexington Avenue side. Completion is expected next year. A spokesman for Vornado said the project had not received any economic incentives or tax abatements from the city.
The courtyard idea started as a drive-through passage, Rafael Pelli said, and kept getting bigger. He said Mr. Roth loved the idea. (Mr. Roth, customarily keeping his own counsel, declined to be interviewed.)
Beacon Court's crosstown rival will be the Great Room of the AOL Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle, designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. Behind a 150-foot wall of sheer glass, this 8,000-square-foot hall leads to an 11,000-square-foot gallery extending north and south, following the curve of Columbus Circle. It will not open until October, so it is too early to say whether this space will feel like a vibrant shop-lined street or more like an aisle in a mall.
Far more private will be the 34,000-square-foot, 70-foot-high atrium in the headquarters tower designed by Foster & Partners for the Hearst Corporation, to rise within and above the landmark Hearst Magazine Building on Eighth Avenue, between 56th and 57th Streets. This third-floor space will generally be closed to the public, though visitors will be able to glimpse it from the lobby.
EVEN more private will be the 4,900-square-foot courtyard within the future headquarters of The New York Times Company on Eighth Avenue, between 40th and 41st Streets, designed by the Renzo Piano Building Workshop and Fox & Fowle. This space, filled with birch trees, will be closed to everyone, though visible through glass walls from the ground floor and The Times's newsroom above.
Of course, judging any space under construction is risky. At Beacon Court, much will depend on whether security measures are imposing or inconspicuous and on whether comings and goings from Bloomberg headquarters, the apartments and a restaurant will help animate a spartan volume.
The architects are willing to let it evolve. "The idea," Rafael Pelli said, "is to let this space become what it wants to be over time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Roth's project at 731 Lexington Avenue, shown in late May, will feature an elliptical courtyard. (Keith Bedford for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); MAYORS (68%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (84%); VORNADO REALTY TRUST (72%); CESAR PELLI & ASSOCIATES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: VORNADO REALTY TRUST; PELLI, CESAR, & ASSOCIATES 

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); STEVEN ROTH (70%) DUNLAP, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



302 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Cuba Plans Protests at European Embassies 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: HAVANA, June 11 

 BODY:
Cuba, telling the European Union that it would not tolerate "provocations and blackmail," announced today that protests would be held at the Spanish and Italian Embassies in Havana and warned of more action if Europe maintained support for Cuban dissidents.
 The European Union, responding to the Cuban government's toughest crackdown in decades on dissent, decided last week to limit high-level government visits and reduce the participation of its 15 member states in cultural events in Cuba. 
 The union, Cuba's largest trading partner and foreign investor, said it would further review its policy on relations and would invite opponents of the Cuban government to embassy receptions in Havana celebrating European national days, a measure that particularly angered the Cuban authorities. 
President Fidel Castro's government, usually more at odds with the United States, has turned its ire on Europe, threatening to hold big marches on Thursday at the embassies. 
"Cuba calmly but firmly issues a warning to the European embassies and to local U.S. government mercenaries that it will not tolerate provocations or blackmail," Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque said, referring to the European sanctions.
"European embassies should be conscious of the fact that they will be failing to meet their obligations under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations if they allow themselves to be used for subversion against Cuba," Mr. Perez Roque added in a statement broadcast live to the nation.
Mr. Perez Roque accused the European Union, particularly Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar of Spain, of joining American efforts to topple the Cuban government.
The European Union helped Cuba overcome political isolation and economic crisis in the 1990's after the collapse of its former benefactor, the Soviet Union. Cuba's relations with Europe have deteriorated since Havana imprisoned 75 dissidents in April and executed three ferry hijackers who had sought to go to the United States. Cuba accused the dissidents, imprisoned for an average 19 years, of working with the United States to undermine its government. 
"The mercenaries who try to turn the European embassies in Havana into centers for conspiring against the revolution should be aware that the Cuban people will be quite capable of demanding that our laws be vigorously enforced," Mr. Perez Roque said, implying they could soon be behind bars, too.
He sharply criticized Mr. Aznar, calling him "a minor ally of the Yankee imperial government" and saying that he was mainly responsible for Europe's "treacherous escalation of aggression." He also expressed concern that other countries might follow Italy's recent decision to cut about $47 million in aid and credit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (95%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EXTORTION (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); CONSPIRACY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); RIOTS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); HIJACKING (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) FOREIGN SERVICE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: PEREZ ROQUE (89%); FIDEL CASTRO (74%) CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (99%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%); ITALY (92%) CUBA; SPAIN; ITALY; HAVANA (CUBA)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



303 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Envisioning A Clinton At City Hall

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
READY for this? Another Clinton rumor. No, not about Hillary Rodham Clinton running for president. About Bill Clinton running for mayor of New York.
 You scoff. Well, of course, you scoff. There is plenty about which to scoff. Odds are it will not happen. But on the theory that New York is home of the improbable, that it is a place where a first lady can become a United States senator and a billionaire with political talents in inverse proportion to his wealth can become mayor, let us consider this latest bit of political gossip for a moment. 
 It is too enticing to let go, especially since the former president hasn't rejected the idea. A New York Democrat who urged him to run this week reports that while he didn't say yes,he didn't say no. Being polite? Enjoying the attention? "He's busy running his foundation, not running for office," his spokesman, James E. Kennedy, said yesterday.
The latest round of Clinton speculation surfaced in the June issue of Washingtonian magazine. The thinking: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is not popular, no compelling Democrats are lining up to challenge him, Mr. Clinton is in limbo, New York loves him and there is no other job large enough for his talents or ego.
"It's the only job which would rival being in the White House," said Mitchell Moss, the director of the Urban Research Center at New York University and an adviser to Mr. Bloomberg. "It has all the benefits of the media, has a police force to protect you, mayors have foreign policies, health policies." And every other kind of policy, as well as a permanent publicity platform.
It sure would beat televised encounter sessions with Bob Dole.
"Bill Clinton could win anything he would run for, including mayor of the city of New York," said Representative Charles B. Rangel of Harlem. "I know he could do it, just as I knew his wife could do it. But I don't know that he'd want to get back into the regimen of a tight political life." Mr. Rangel was one of the earliest and most energetic supporters of Mrs. Clinton's Senate candidacy. Notably, he is not taking the same tone about Mr. Clinton. Who is? Washingtonian cited unnamed "friends of Bill." 
Some political friends of Mr. and Mrs. Clinton rejected the speculation in interviews this week. They noted, for instance, that Mr. Clinton had an office in Harlem but lived in Chappaqua and could not move without hurting Senator Clinton's standing with the critical suburban vote. They also say that, assuming the Clintons remain a couple, the former president cannot afford to overshadow his wife, especially if she's weighing a 2008 presidential run.
But the mere idea of a Bill Clinton candidate really does fuel the image machine. Thoughts of fun again at City Hall. Of roiling neighborhood meetings where regular folks from Tottenville to Pelham Parkway could confront a former president about their corner traffic light. One would pay admission to watch him anticipate a transit strike or tangle with the State Legislature. If the economic slump continued, a Mayor Clinton would surely perpetuate the Bloomberg policies of keeping taxes high rather than decimating services.
But -- guaranteed -- he'd place the blame elsewhere, on President Bush, whose tax cuts force the burden down to the states, cities and counties, and on Gov. George E. Pataki, who didn't acknowledge or deal with New York's fiscal distress until after he was safely re-elected.
Mr. Clinton would not walk into office. "There are no guarantees," Mr. Moss said. "Clinton has magic in New York. But it is not clear that magic will get him a job as mayor." 
EVEN in New York, the former president has his detractors. "I'm going to be supporting Bloomberg, and I think he would win," former Mayor Edward I. Koch said. "I cannot forgive Clinton the pardons."
The pardons and sentence commutations that Mr. Clinton granted as he left the White House -- many to the wealthy and connected -- would inevitably come back around, along with other choice episodes from the Clinton years. He'd have to contend with Mr. Bloomberg's millions, the tabloid gossips, prying eyes. 
He'd win anyway, Mr. Rangel predicted. "But he's got everything now," Mr. Rangel added. "People seek his advice, he's got a forum wherever he goes, plus a million to go with it. He's got everything except the responsibility."
If Mr. Clinton is really considering a run for City Hall, that's what it comes down to -- whether he wants to take on a new version of the responsibility he left behind. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (55%) PURNICK, JOYCE; CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



304 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Got Milk? Hula Hoop? It's a Record!; 
He's Guinness's King Of Strange Feats, All for Inner Peace

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON 

 BODY:
Several years back, Ashrita Furman learned that someone had set a world record for tree-eating, so he naturally began ingesting a bigger one -- a birch near his home in Jamaica, Queens -- by chopping it up in a kitchen blender. He was soon stopped by his Indian guru, Sri Chinmoy.
 "He heard about it and said: 'That's absurd. Tell him to stop,' " recalled Mr. Furman, 48, who manages the Guru Health Foods store in Jamaica. 
 The tree-eating feat had been listed in the Guinness Book of World Records, which naturally made it a challenge for Mr. Furman. Over the past 24 years, he has set or broken 78 Guinness records, most of which have either since been broken or retired by Guinness as categories. He now holds 20, the most in Guinness history, followed by Paul McCartney, with 16, Guinness officials in London said this week. 
Mr. McCartney's are for hit records. Mr. Furman's are for physical feats like underwater rope-jumping, race-walking the fastest mile while twirling a Hula Hoop. He has walked 81 miles with a milk bottle balanced on his head.
For Mr. Furman, setting records provides a path to spiritual enlightenment and pays tribute to Mr. Chinmoy, the 72-year-old Indian spiritual philosopher who has run a meditation center in Jamaica since 1968.
Mr. Furman lives in an apartment he has rented for the past 30 years. He says he is a vegetarian and a celibate bachelor. He has never driven a car and lives a simple life with few possessions in a tight-knit community of some 300 disciples of Mr. Chinmoy.
Which makes his longstanding obsession with the Guinness book all the more strange.
Although Mr. Furman insists his record chase is not about competing with his fellow man, the fact remains: in terms of sheer record totals, he has blown away the pogo-sticking, breath-holding competition.
"Ashrita is by far the most prolific record breaker" in Guinness Book history, said Stewart Newport, the longtime keeper of records for the Guinness Book.
But Mr. Furman says that there is one person still on earth who once set more world records: the legendary Russian weight lifter, Vasily Alekseyev, who set 80 world records while dominating powerlifting in the 1970's, including winning 22 world championships and 2 Olympic gold medals. 
But Mr. Furman predicted he would surpass Mr. Alekseyev's historic mark in a matter of weeks, with a series of records that share his typical blend of stunning physicality and goofball showmanship.
Next week, he is traveling to England. He hopes to run the world's fastest mile, around Stonehenge, with a full milk bottle balanced on his chin. Then it's on to the Utah salt flats for another fastest mile, cartwheeling. This week, he began practicing in his backyard to break his own record of balancing 75 beer glasses on his chin.
Also, he plans on competing this fall in the New York Marathon -- not running, but skipping. He hopes Guinness officials will adopt the skipping marathon as a new category, as they have in the past for other activities he pioneered, like underwater juggling and the fastest 10 kilometers hopped in a burlap sack.
"I can't believe that after 50 years, the Guinness book doesn't have a skipping category," he said last Thursday as he skipped down Union Turnpike in rush hour traffic. "It's crazy."
He smiled and said hello to staring strangers. One elderly couple responded with a genuine New York City "Do I know you?" glare.
"Skipping," he chirped to them. "It's the latest thing. You should try it."
"Tomorrow," the woman responded, and Mr. Furman skipped on.
Mr. Furman has broken records on all seven continents. He pogo-sticked in the Amazon River using a snorkel to breathe (3,647 jumps in 3 hours, 40 minutes), and pogo-sticked 16 miles up and down Mount Fuji. In the Australian desert, he race-walked the fastest mile while Hula-Hooping (15 minutes, 25 seconds). 
He somersaulted the entire 12.2-mile route of Paul Revere's midnight ride in Massachusetts. He rode a unicycle backward for 53 miles.
Besides a fascination with what is difficult, Mr. Furman insists that each of his records has guided him beyond mental and physical barriers. Just when he is in unbearable pain and about to give up, another realm opens up; a warm, comfortable spiritual cocoon. The doubts and exhaustion wash away and are replaced by what Mr. Furman says is a "tremendous inner peace." At that point, his body goes into overdrive and -- boom -- another Guinness record.
Mr. Furman's given name was Keith Furman, but Mr. Chinmoy named him Ashrita, which he says is Bengali for "protected by God."
"I really do feel that I am," he said in a Forest Hills gym. He began doing rapid "crunch-style situps." He recently learned that the Guinness record was 5,633 in an hour, and he was trying them. After 3,000 in 25 minutes, he stopped and said, "That was a good warm-up."
He grew up in Kew Gardens Hills, Queens. When he was 16, he wished he could seal himself off in a cave. He saw a poster for a Sri Chinmoy prayer session. He had been valedictorian of his yeshiva and was doing well in Jamaica High School. Much to the consternation of his mother, an observant Jew, and his father, a lawyer with Zionist views, he joined Mr. Chinmoy's spiritual family at age 18. He studied economics at Columbia University for two years but dropped out to follow Mr. Chinmoy's teachings.
His record breaking quest began in 1973, after Mr. Chinmoy told him to enter a 24-hour bicycle race in Central Park. He set his first Guinness record in 1979, with 17,000 jumping jacks.
At 5 feet 10 inches and a muscular 170 pounds, he has the rugged general-purpose build of a decathlete.
"People magazine called me to be on their 50 most eligible bachelors' list," he said while skipping on Union Turnpike. "I told them, 'There's only one problem: I don't date.' "
Sri Chinmoy advocates celibacy and instructs his students that spiritual fulfillment can be obtained by meditation and by extreme physical challenges. 
Mr. Chinmoy himself likes to lift famous people off the ground with his legs to show his appreciation for them. He has lifted Susan Sarandon, Nelson Mandela and Ravi Shankar.
At the end of Normal Road in Jamaica, there is a block of storefronts along Parsons Boulevard, painted bright blue, most of them owned by Mr. Chinmoy's followers. Mr. Furman's Guru Health Foods stands between Guru Stationery and a flower store called the Garland of Divinity's Love.
While ferocious in his pursuit of records, Mr. Furman is insistent: "I'm not going against any person, but against the ideal. When someone breaks one of my records, I'm happy because he's just raised the bar and, in some way, increased the level of progress of humanity."
He has been blatantly challenged by other top world record holders, most notably Terry Cole of Britain (dozens of world records) who began breaking Mr. Furman's records and taunting him in the press. At first, Mr. Furman, said, he took up the challenge, but "once it became a personal thing, I got injured immediately."
"I don't want to be the king of Guinness, that's not my goal," he said. "I want to transcend my physical and spiritual boundaries. In that way, the Guinness book is part of my spiritual quest."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ashrita Furman balancing 62 beer glasses on his chin. He hopes to beat his own world record -- 75. (And yes, when they fall, they shatter.) (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)(pg. B1); How do you set the world record for race-walking a mile with a Hula Hoop? Practice. Which is why Ashrita Furman is balancing and twirling at a gym. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARATHONS (90%); WALKING & JOGGING (90%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); MEDITATION (77%); OLYMPICS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); WEIGHTLIFTING (67%); SPORTS AWARDS (66%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (56%) RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: GUINNESS WORLD RECORDS 

PERSON: PAUL MCCARTNEY (79%) KILGANNON, COREY; FURMAN, ASHRITA; SRI CHINMOY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) UTAH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



305 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Snow Calls Dollar's Fall an 'Orderly Adjustment' 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said yesterday that he was not concerned by the dollar's 19 percent decline against the euro over the last year and denied that stance put him at odds with either President Bush or the "strong dollar" policy.
 The dollar's fall has "been an orderly adjustment," Mr. Snow said in an interview on the "Charlie Rose" television program, which was recorded in New York on Tuesday and broadcast yesterday. "We're going to monitor it, we're going to watch it, but I don't think it's any cause for any great alarm," he added. 
 Traders and investors sold the dollar last month after similar comments from Mr. Snow led them to conclude he had abandoned the traditional policy in order to bolster the sluggish economy and lift exports. 
Mr. Snow said he had not changed policy. Talking the dollar down "doesn't make economic sense," he said. "We do support the strong dollar. The president's said that, I've said that and that's a longstanding policy and there's no change in policy."
Since Robert E. Rubin ran the Treasury in 1995, the government has backed a "strong dollar" as in the United States' best interest.
Mr. Snow said his stance was also the same as that of Mr. Bush, who told Russia's RTR TV last month that the "devalued" currency ran counter to his "strong dollar" policy.
"The president and I are entirely on the same wavelength," Mr. Snow said in the interview. It wouldn't be "wise" for him to endorse a certain level for the dollar against the euro, he said.
In New York, the euro was trading at $1.1747 in late afternoon trading yesterday, up from $1.1678 on Tuesday.
Mr. Snow said governments should avoid buying or selling currencies to influence where they trade, indicating the Treasury will not try to curb the dollar's slide.
"Nobody becomes prosperous through devaluations, and currency values are best set in open and competitive markets with interventions kept to a minimum," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); EURO (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); DEVALUATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CURRENCY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHARLIE ROSE (56%) SNOW, JOHN W (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2003 



306 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 2; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
It's Dark, Seductive and Rich. Who Can Resist?

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
When warm weather arrives, Hollywood makes car-chase movies. Museums put on shows like "Chocolate," a meandering, mildly educational tribute to the beloved bean, whose genus name, Theobroma, means "food of the gods."
 The exhibition, which opens tomorrow at the American Museum of Natural History and runs through Sept. 7, originated at the Field Museum in Chicago, which clearly intended to create a confection of a show, an undemanding crowd-pleaser with just enough solid information to preserve the decencies. 
 It's no accident that the subject is chocolate, not rice or soybeans. Chocolate has allowed the museum to create a bookstore and chocolate shop just just outside the exit with a full range of Godiva chocolates. Upstairs, on the fourth floor, a chocolate cafe sells slices of triple chocolate cake, chocolate-swirl cheesecakes, and even chocolate stout. Chocolate presents many marketing opportunities. The museum has not missed a single one. And the admission price, $17 for adults, is nothing short of breathtaking for a modest show of this kind. 
Still, I can think of worse ways to while away an hour on a hot day. In a loose, shambling way, "Chocolate" explains the plant itself, its place in the ecology of the tropical rain forests that nourish it and its long history in Mesoamerica, where it was consumed as a bitter, spicy drink, and in Europe, where the marriage of sugar and chocolate was first consummated.
Even devotees of molten chocolate cake might be surprised to see the source of their pleasure: a wrinkly pod the size of a football that contains sweet pulp and about 40 bitter beans the size of almonds, enough to make 10 milk chocolate bars.
Video displays in English and Spanish show the process that takes the bean from its natural state to the pressed powder cakes sold as cocoa. Much more entertainingly, they show the great modern spectacle of molten chocolate being formed into bars, bonbons and candies.
The problem with chocolate, as with most food products, is the lack of compelling visual material. Yes, the pods are great. But in touring the small informational substations outfitted with text and videotapes, I often experienced that distinctive tedium familiar to any American child who has sat through hundreds of hours of educational filmstrips.
Younger visitors will probably not linger very long in front of the 18th-century porcelain chocolate service from Germany, a traveling set that runs to 20 pieces, or the ceramic Mayan drinking cups, although the curators have done their utmost to bring the material alive. By spinning cylinders installed near one Mayan drinking vessel and consulting the text panels, visitors can read their way through the striking hieroglyphics inscribed on the outside of the vessel.
To show how cacao beans functioned as currency in Mesoamerican society, the curators have displayed market goods, with the price reflected in beans strung on a wire. Unfortunately, there is no way of knowing how much labor it took to earn a bean, so the exercise is entirely abstract. Are three beans too much or too little for a bushel of corn?
As the exhibition works its way along an awkward, mazelike layout toward the modern era, the pace quickens. French and Italian advertising posters from the early 20th century illustrate the international craze for sweetened chocolate in all forms, solid or liquid.
The innovations of European and American chocolate makers are duly chronicled, with commercial products from companies like Hershey's and Nestle displayed decade by decade. Some, like Ovaltine, are still with us. But where is the Chicky Bar of yesteryear, or the Cocoa-Crush chocolate beverage? The exhibition also includes the most weirdly named candy bar of all time, the Ox-Heart, made by Long's of Oswego, N.Y.
The most arresting object in the exhibition is a polished wood coffin from Ghana in the shape of a cacao bean. It is intended to show the importance of the bean to modern Africa, the world's largest producer, but I suspect most visitors will simply marvel at the artistry of the coffin maker, Kane Kwei, and fantasize, as I did, on the idea of spending the afterlife encased in a chocolate pod. Death, where is thy sting?
The cleverest stroke in the exhibition comes last, a wall that looks like an open, upended chocolate box, inflated to giant proportions. The wall frames huge assorted "chocolates" and several video monitors showing average folk on the street, testifying to their love of chocolate. It is inane. But the seats in front of the wall are pure genius, tuffets that look like chocolate bonbons in frilled wrapping. I foresee struggles among young visitors for a coveted place on the bonbon hassocks.
But that may be nothing compared with the near-riot conditions I predict at the tiny fourth-floor cafe. After an hour of looking at chocolate and thinking about it, visitors of all ages will need the real thing, fast. It might be wise to issue the guards a supply of Ding-Dongs to quell disturbances.

A Sweet Science That Comes in Boxes

"Chocolate" opens tomorrow and is on view through Sept. 7 at the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West at 79th Street. Events, from workshops to chocolate samplings, are planned in conjunction with the exhibition; unless noted, events are free. Most events require preregistration: (212) 769-5200. Every Saturday and Sunday through Aug. 31, free samplings of domestic and international chocolates will begin at 1 p.m. in one of two sites set up for the exhibition: a third-floor Chocolate Shop or a fourth-floor Chocolate Cafe. There is timed admission to the show, beginning daily at 10 a.m. Admission, including museum admission: $17; $12.50 for students and 60+; $10 for children. Information: (212) 769-5200 or www.amnh.org.

Lectures and Symposiums

"CAN CHOCOLATE SAVE THE RAIN FOREST?" A lecture with Chris Bright and Radhika Sarin, members of the World Watch Institute and Meg Domroese, a member of the museum's Center for Biodiversity and Conservation. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Fee: $15; $13.50 for members, students and 60+.

"THE SCIENCE OF CHOCOLATE: NEW DISCOVERIES," a symposium on new findings in the study of chocolate and its importance in the lives of pre-Columbian Central and South America with scholars in anthropology, art history, biochemistry and paleobotany. Tuesday from 1 to 5 p.m.

"ART(IFACTS) AND SCIENCE OF CHOCOLATE," a discussion of the artistic and scientific aspects of chocolate sculpture, with pastry chefs and chocolatiers. July 17 at 7 p.m. Fee: $15; $13 for members, students and 60+.

"PRE-COLUMBIAN HISTORY OF CHOCOLATE," a discussion with Michael D. Cole, an anthropology professor at Yale University. July 26 at 2:15 p.m.

Panel Discussions

"AFRICA: FACING THE CHALLENGES OF GLOBALIZATION," covering the effects of rising demands by Western countries on African economies. Aug 10 at 2:30 p.m.

Workshops

"THE ABC'S OF CHOCOLATE," covering how cacao is grown and chocolate bars are made; for ages 7 and up. June 21 at 2 p.m. Also June 28 at 11 a.m.; and July 19 and Aug. 16 at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. Fee: $30 for one adult and one child.

"CHOCOLATE APPRECIATION," chocolate-tasting followed by instruction in buying fine chocolate. June 28 and 29, at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. Fee: $35.

"TRADITIONAL MEXICAN CHOCOLATE PREPARATION," with discussions and preparations of foods and beverages led by Zarela Martinez, a restaurant owner. July 26 at 3:30 p.m.

Performances

"PASSING ON TRADITIONS: AZTEC MUSIC AND DANCE," performed by the group Cetiliztli Nauhcampa Quetzalcoatl in Ixachitlan, with a discussion to follow. Aug. 9 at 2:15 p.m.

STORIES AND LEGENDS OF THE IVORY COAST, performed by the Kotchegna Dance Company. Aug. 10 at 1:15 and 4:15 p.m.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A coffin shaped like a cacao pod, at the Museum of Natural History. (Denis Finnin/American Museum of Natural History)(pg. E31); Visitors to "Chocolate" at the Museum of Natural History watch videos about chocolate lovers worldwide, on screens set in a large "chocolate box." (Denis Finnin/American Museum of Natural History)(pg. E39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); FILM (89%); CONFECTIONERY (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (71%); BOOKSTORES (69%); RAIN FORESTS (65%); FOOD INDUSTRY (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GODIVA CHOCOLATIER INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (91%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (91%); SIC5441 CANDY, NUT, & CONFECTIONERY STORES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%); EUROPE (69%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



307 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: AT THE MOVIES 

BYLINE:  By Dave Kehr

 BODY:
Timeless Lesson From Lubitsch
 There's nothing wrong with American movies that total immersion in the work of Ernst Lubitsch couldn't repair. As Hollywood films become bigger, blander, more obvious and more condescending toward the audience, there is nothing like a look at a Lubitsch masterpiece like "Trouble in Paradise" (1932) to remind you that elegance, intelligence and conciseness are not incompatible with the movie business. 
 New Yorkers will have a chance to steep themselves thoroughly in Lubitsch's work over the next three weeks as Film Forum presents a program of 28 Lubitsch films, drawn both from his Hollywood period ("Ninotchka," "To Be or Not to Be," "The Shop Around the Corner") and from the large body of work he created in Germany before Hollywood beckoned. The opening attraction, running for one week beginning today, is "Trouble in Paradise," presented in a new 35-millimeter print. A special treat will be the program of extremely rare Lubitsch films from the collection of the Munich Filmmuseum, to be presented on June 23 and 24. The package includes two early films in which Lubitsch appeared as an actor -- "Meyer in Berlin" (1919) and "When I Was Dead" (1915) -- as well as the eternally underrated "Angel" (1937), a rare dramatic departure for the director, starring Marlene Dietrich and Herbert Marshall. 
Lubitsch died of a heart attack at 55 after completing only a few days of shooting on the unfortunate Betty Grable vehicle "That Lady in Ermine" (1948). "I was quite small when he died," said Nicola Lubitsch, the director's daughter, speaking by telephone from her home in Los Angeles. "But he was a wonderful father. He loved to play the piano, and the minute he came home from work, I would sit by him and he would tell me stories and make up music as he went along.
"According to my mother, it was a time when a lot of great pianists -- Rubinstein, Horowitz, all those people -- were in Los Angeles, and they would come over and he would play the piano. He wasn't shy about it at all! I remember going to sleep at night listening to him play -- I suppose kind of kitschy, German music, but I thought it was wonderful."
Ms. Lubitsch, a producer for the Los Angeles public radio station KCRW, will be in New York to participate in a panel discussion of her father's work at the Goethe Institute/German Cultural Center (1014 Fifth Avenue, at 82nd Street) on June 22 at 2 p.m. "He was the youngest of four children, 20 years younger than his youngest sister," Ms. Lubitsch said, "and I think that's really important to who he was."
"His family was not poor, as has been insinuated often," Ms. Lubitsch explained. "His parents were quite prosperous. My grandmother had a business that made clothes for large women. My grandfather was, I gather, a very temperamental man. He was very good looking, and he did nothing that anyone could figure out except sit in cafes and pretend to read the newspaper. When my grandfather was in his 90's, he wanted to marry a 20-year-old nurse, and my father said, 'No, no, you can't do that.' So actually, the Don Ameche part in 'Heaven Can Wait' is very much taken from my grandfather."
"My father was a spoiled brat, essentially," said Ms. Lubitsch, passing on the impression that she had gathered from the Lubitsch relatives she had met over the years. "And I think it was key to his personality, in that when he went to school, my aunt would go with him. When he had gymnastics, she would come back to school to change his shoes. Everybody did everything for him. He was just in his own world. And what happened was that he could really never, ever do anything practical."
Except, of course, create some of the finest motion pictures ever made.

Russia's New World
In 1990, Pavel Lounguine's "Taxi Blues" emerged as one of the first Soviet films to push the limits of perestroika. The film, which won a best-director award at the Cannes International Film Festival, took a street-level view of the unpleasant reality of the Soviet Union, as seen from the point of view of a thuggish, anti-Semitic taxi driver.
Thirteen years and a great deal of social upheaval later, Mr. Lounguine is still making films that report on the chaos and corruption of Russian life. His new movie is called "Tycoon" here but was released in Russia as "Oligarch," the name given to the new economic rulers of the country. It is a thinly fictionalized account of the life of Boris A. Berezovsky, the energetic, corner-cutting entrepreneur who turned a tax-dodging scheme involving imported cars into a media empire that controlled Russia's biggest television channel.
Speaking from Los Angeles, where Mr. Lounguine was lingering at a friend's house after a sport-fishing vacation in Mexico, the director said that the film had struck a chord in the former Soviet Union, where it became the highest-grossing film of last year. "It's not very patriotic," he said. "It's a difficult and painful statement. Everybody was unsure that it would go well, but it became quite successful."
The film is based on a book written by one of Mr. Berezovsky's former aides, Yuli Dubov. "They began together, but after Berezovsky went very far and very high, Dubov remained on the level of selling cars. After the success of the film, the authorities reopened the tax evasion case against Dubov, and he was so afraid that he ran away to London. He's now waiting for political asylum."
In the film, which opens today in Manhattan (review, Page 15), Mr. Berezovsky becomes Platon Makovsky, played by one of Russia's most popular leading men, Vladimir Mashkov. "The film goes from fantasy to reality and from reality to fantasy," Mr. Lounguine explained. "Platon is inspired by Berezovsky, but he is not at all Berezovsky. For me, he is made from many different oligarchs, a piece of one and a piece of another. I wanted to show this new type of person that has been created now in Russia."
The flashback format inevitably suggests another well-known movie about a would-be oligarch, Orson Welles's "Citizen Kane." "In fact my script was titled 'Citizen M,' and I thought a lot about Welles," Mr. Lounguine said. "But you know, it's impossible now to work without having 'Citizen Kane' in your head. It's like trying to write plays without thinking of Shakespeare."
Like Kane, Mashkov is a deeply ambiguous figure, representing both progress and self-interest. "He is evil," Mr. Lounguine said, "but you don't know if this evil is good or not.
"You have to understand that the whole empire fell in the space of two or three months. And there was no big idea of morals, nobody understood what was good, what was bad. He thinks he is doing good things, but he knows something is not good in his soul. It is a new society with new rules, a game with new stakes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pavel Lounguine, the director of "Tycoon." (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (93%); MUSIC (85%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (85%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%); CHILDREN (67%); DEATHS (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%); PUBLIC RADIO (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (87%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



308 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: Orchestra in Texas Files for Bankruptcy 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, June 12 

 BODY:
The San Antonio Symphony, which suspended its season last month and is $1.5 million in debt, said Wednesday that it would file for bankruptcy. 
 Steven Brosvik, the executive director, blamed the economy and reduced donor gifts for the current financial troubles. He said the symphony hoped to reorganize under Chapter 11 and reopen in September, on schedule for next season. Staff members and musicians were not paid two weeks ago, and the symphony said it expected that they would not be paid again this week. 
 In the weakened economy, many orchestras across the country have struggled to pay their debts and stay solvent, including the Florida Philharmonic and symphonies in Colorado Springs and Savannah, Ga. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (86%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (85%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (84%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (84%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (88%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (64%) TEXAS, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



309 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
Immigrant Life in All Its Jagged Rhythms

BYLINE:  By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
"Manito," Eric Eason's debut feature, was made with very little money, a fair amount of skill and a great deal of heart. Most of the action unfolds in a single day in the Upper Manhattan neighborhood of Washington Heights, and Mr. Eason, using a hand-held camera and a largely new or nonprofessional cast, brilliantly captures the pulse of daily life in working-class, immigrant New York: the hectic rhythms of labor, leisure and family life, the stresses and pleasures, the anxieties and hopes. He has a quick-moving, incisive eye that captures little details of gesture and decor -- the way a young boy imitates his father's impatient morning alarm-clock slap, the magic by which a rented catering hall is transformed into a sacred place -- and also an ear finely tuned to the nuances of talk. 
 The characters are mostly Dominican, with a few whose roots are in Mexico and Puerto Rico. Their cultural, culinary and sexual differences are a source of perpetual argument and analysis, and they speak a fast, bracing combination of English and Spanish. The subtitles capture the sense well enough; the music requires no translation. 
 And for most of its brief, packed running time, "Manito," which opens today in New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, Boston and New Orleans, has the lilt and momentum -- the swing -- of a musical performance. (It also includes one, by a tight, fiery merengue combo called Fulanito.) Though a dramatic (even melodramatic) narrative eventually takes shape, what you remember is the succession of moods and observations through which it emerges. Manny Moreno, or Manito (Leo Minaya), is the pride of his battered family -- his dapper, gentle grandfather (Hector Gonzalez), his sister-in-law (Julissa Lopez), and above all his older brother, Junior (Franky G.), who is trying to make an honest living as a painting contractor after serving a prison sentence.
The reason for his time in prison is revealed later, as is the source of Junior's hatred of his and Manny's father (Manuel Cabral), who lurks around the edges of his estranged family and tries to elbow his way into their celebration of Manny's high school graduation. But the lurking possibility of family tragedy is deferred -- so much so that its arrival seems underprepared and a little forced -- until we have understood the fragile normalcy that Manny and Junior cling to. Manny is a sensitive, studious young man, but also a bit indistinct, as if Mr. Minaya and the restless camera were dodging each other. (Manny's would-be girlfriend, Marisol, is much more vivid, partly because nobody would dare to turn away from the fearless, provoking gaze of Jessica Morales, in real life a medical assistant but a born actress.)
The volcanic center of the movie is Junior, and Franky G., who seems to be turning up everywhere lately (in "Confidence" and "The Italian Job," as well as here) has undeniable star power. His acting may be rough and unmodulated at times, but he shows the complexity of Junior's temperament with furious economy. Junior's flaws are entangled with his virtues: he is both a family man and a compulsive philanderer, at once dishonest and dependable. His angry masculine bravado seems edged with panic, just as his brutal impatience is a reflection of his tenderness.
His performance anchors the film in an unpretentious realism that has something in common with Peter Sollett's "Raising Victor Vargas," which was set in a Dominican neighborhood on the other end of Manhattan. Mr. Eason's sense of the streets is harsher; his summer day is more severely shadowed by poverty, crime and desperation. At the end, as the latent tensions within the family and the neighborhood burst into full operatic color, "Manito" loses some of its charm and insight. It becomes, more conventionally, a movie about the Streets, rather than about the particular blocks and boulevards it observes with such rare sensitivity and insight.

MANITO

Written and directed by Eric Eason; director of photography, Didier Gertsch; edited by Kyle Henry; music by Saundi Wilson; production designer, Christine Darch; produced by Jesse Scolaro and Allen Bain; released by Film Movement. At the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 76 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Franky G. (Junior Moreno), Leo Minaya (Manny Moreno), Manuel Cabral (Oscar Moreno), Julissa Lopez (Miriam), Jessica Morales (Marisol), Hector Gonzalez (Abuelo), Panchito Gomez (Rodchenko) and the band Fulanito.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); FAMILY (77%); MUSIC (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); SENTENCING (66%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (61%); PAINT & WALLPAPER CONTRACTORS (50%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



310 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1752 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
The End of the Road For 'Devil's Highway'

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN 

 BODY:
THE business cards for the Anasazi Restaurant & Lounge -- a single-story roadhouse in Cortez, Colo., whose Saturday night prime rib special ($14.50 for 8 ounces, $16.50 for 10) attracts both locals and truckers bunking at the adjacent motel -- list the address as 640 S. Broadway.
 And thereinlies a tale. 
 About 15 years ago, June Merrett, who owned the Anasazi then, decided that the address of her establishment was unacceptable. As though it wasn't inauspicious enough to be stuck squarely on U.S. Route 666, the building's number was also 666. So along with adopting the local name of the road as it crosses through town -- Broadway -- she convinced officials at City Hall to switch the address of the Anasazi to 640. 
"She said, 'Why should we have the double devil?' " Ruth E. Russell, the Anasazi's lounge manager, recalled. "She said three sixes is enough." 
Now, it seems even three sixes are too many. 
For 77 years, Route 666, christened as the sixth tributary off Route 66, has woven its way through three states, beginning in the drab, fast-food corridor of Gallup, N.M., a two hours' drive west of Albuquerque. Then it travels through the vast, dusty Navajo Reservation, curving into Cortez, Colo., and rolling through the cattle ranches of Colorado and Utah before ending up 191 miles later in the town of Monticello, Utah (pop. 1,958).
But this spring, politicians in those three states, led by Bill Richardson, the governor of New Mexico, petitioned the federal agency that handles such things to change the highway's number, arguing that the New Testament's association of 666 with Satan was impairing the economic vitality of the towns along its route. 
This humble highway is hardly the first to have an identity crisis. South Korea added seven soldiers to its original Iraq contingent to bring the total to a noncontroversial 673. Moscow's bus route 666 became 616 in 1999. Even the United States government, which has a policy against switching Social Security numbers for religious reasons, agreed in 1996 to issue a new one for a 1-year-old girl in Orange County, Calif., whose parents refused to list her 666 on their income taxes.
All this even though the relevant Biblical passage -- from Revelations, Chapter 13 -- does not even explicitly mention the Devil. "Here is wisdom," says Verse 18. "Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is six hundred threescore and six." 
Whatever the validity of the fears, Route 666 is no more. On May 31, it was changed to 491. It will take up to a year, and untold sums, for the three states to change their signs and maps to reflect the sanitized moniker, and the cowboys and Indians who live along the unassuming road will probably keep calling it Triple Six long afterward. But people who might have feared to make the trek from, say, Yellow Jacket, Colo., to Eastland, Utah, because of the number of the highway that links the two can now hit the road without trepidation. 
Of course, maybe there wasn't all that much to worry about in the first place.
That was the impression I got the weekend before the name change as my boyfriend, Gary, and I drove the length of the highway to see what the fuss was all about -- and to earn the distinction of being among the last to drive what's known locally as "the Devil's highway." 
Riding with the top down in Thrifty's red Sebring, we logged 800 miles in 48 hours. We did not see the Devil. There was nary an entrepreneur who had capitalized on the numerology with a Hell's Kitchen cafe, Dance With the Devil disco or "The Devil Made Me Do It" bumper sticker. And not a 666 T-shirt to be had. 
In fact, few people we encountered seemed to see the point of the name change.
"It's just a number to me," said Elaine Quackenbush, a teacher at the Free Trinity Navajo Mission, a log-cabin church built from a kit that sits on the east side of the highway about six miles north of its birth in Gallup. "It talks about being on your arm or your forehead," she said of the Bible's reference to 666. "Nothing about a road."
Ms. Quackenbush, who said she was called by the Lord to work with the Navajo about 11 years ago, lives in a small trailer near the church, behind a marquee with a blue arrow that says, "If you don't feel close to God, guess who moved?" She came out to meet us as we wandered around the cul-de-sac that led to the church and graciously invited us in. 
"I don't think too much about it," she shrugged when we asked about the 666 controversy.
We were hungry when we left Ms. Quackenbush, having bypassed McDonald's, Taco Bell, Denny's and Kentucky Fried Chicken with the hope of something more 666-ish on the horizon. A sign for Mardi's Diner promised "home cookin', last diner for 80 miles," but, alas, the place was closed.
So we plunged north through the Monument Valley, with its striking desert mesas and rock sculptures made by God or geology or both. On the reservation, the road is marked every few dozen miles by tiny communities of nondescript housing, each with its own gas station/mini-mart. Some cows were chewing on the sparse grass in front of a hand-painted sign offering free aerobics and bingo at the Twin Lakes community center, where no one answered the door. A few miles later, a small flock of sheep marched on the side of the road like day-care center charges at recess. 
Near Naschitti, a red spray-painted sign advertised a rodeo the following weekend, and as we listened on the car radio, FM 102 KTRA declared itself "the official station of high school rodeo finals." People were scarce. 
Finally, in Shiprock, about 94 miles up the highway from Gallup, there was Bond's Furniture, and Bond's True Value Hardware, and Bond's Video, where the horror flick "Route 666," starring Lou Diamond Phillips and Lori Petty, can be rented for $1. The Bonds have since sold the stores, and the Navajos who run them dismissed any connection between 666 and economic development -- or highway safety. 
"It's probably all in the mind, you know," said Alan Tsosie, the manager of the hardware store, standing in front of the 50-cent packets of candy corn. "If you feel like 666 is a bad thing, you're expecting it, it'll happen." 
But while Mr. Tsosie, like Ms. Quackenbush before him, seemed immune to the mythology of 666, others expressed a hint of nostalgia at the thought of the name change. "It made us unique," said Micky Mitchell, the manager of Bond's Furniture. "When I do business with people, they say, 'Oh, Highway 666, yeah.' I just think of how much money is going to be spent to change it to something else. They change things for the weirdest things." 
With no lunch options, and virtually no one outside to pester, we were left to wonder at the mysteries of the road signs: Were Karle Begay and Naeomi A. Begay, both memorialized on an adopt-a-highway sign in New Mexico, related to Jerry Begay, listed as pastor at the trailer with the words "Baptist Church" painted on its side (or, for that matter, Ray Begaye, a New Mexico state legislator who drafted a resolution contending that many people were refusing to travel the road "because of the fear that the Devil controls events along 666")? 
While Route 666 is safer than average in Colorado and Utah, New Mexico recorded 15 deaths, in 84 accidents, along it in 2001, the latest year statistics are available. That is up from six fatalities each in 2000 and 1999 and two each in 1998 and1997. 
"I've lost so many relatives on this road," said Joe Hulligan, who sells bowls, mugs and vases at the Ute Mountain Reservation pottery shop, in Towoac, Colo., 28 miles north of the New Mexico line. "They were going around that corner, and they just went too fast." 
At the Ute tribe's casino, where 6-6-6, like any three of a kind, pays 30 to 1 in three-card poker, the dealers each had bad-luck stories. Harold Graves said he found a dead man hanging from a tree in front of his house on the highway about a year ago. Charlie Lanford's girlfriend was killed on Route 666 four years back. 
"The Devil," Mr. Lanford explained, "and the tequila." 
We spent the night in Cortez, a cow town of 8,000 where pierced teenagers talk through the movies at the Fiesta Twin, hot rodders congregate at Bob's Drive-In, and the Anasazi not only offers free refills but brings carafes of soda to the table. 
From here, the landscape gets greener, the road curvier, through Colorado and into Utah. Just north of Cortez, on the east side of the highway, is an enormous car graveyard, with rusting shells from the 1940's, 50's, 60's and today. Across the street is the Church of Christ, one of a dozen tiny religious outposts -- Calvary Assembly of God, The Chapel: Jesus Saves, Followers of Christ Church -- along the highway.
We pulled into the Lunch Box cafe in tiny Dove Creek, Colo., about 30 miles north of Cortez, where Tom Halper, a deputy sheriff who spends three-quarters of his patrol time on Route 666, was in the parking lot. He had responded just that morning to an accident up the road at Sharp's Creek: the seat-belt-less driver of a Ford pickup fell asleep and drifted off, flipping several times in the canyon -- and, somehow, walked away. 
"Believe me, someone was riding with him on that one," Sheriff Halper said, and he didn't mean the Devil. Inside the Lunch Box, Shelly King, a Queens-born ex-Marine who moved here from Los Angeles, was mixing up Indian fry bread, delicious dipped in honey. Stuart Gorrie, a software developer who lived next to Mr. King in Los Angeles and retired in April to his 360-acre horse farm nearby, said the name change was only a big deal to small-town folks who had nothing better to do than nitpick over coffee. 
"It gets you from point A to point B and back -- it's a road," Mr. Gorrie said. "The real Devil lives right here," he added, pointing to his chest. "You've got to go to the local bar in every town to find him." 
We drove on past the cattle ranches to the road's end in Monticello, Utah, where a sign warns, "Last espresso for 438 miles," and where a Honda motorcycle dealership sells Mormon books on the side. It had been a safe, even uneventful trip. Our only glimpse of mysterious powers had come not on 666, but back in Albuquerque, just two minutes into our trip. Gary got pulled over for not wearing his seat belt and left town with a $68 ticket, courtesy of Operation Buckle Down. The next afternoon, at the Ute casino, he played $5 blackjack -- three hands at a time -- and won exactly $68. 
Devil's luck, I guess.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Friday about the former Route 666 in New Mexico, Colorado and Utah -- now called 491 -- misstated its relationship to Monument Valley. The highway passes well to the east of it, not through it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: POSTCARDS FROM ROUTE 666 -- Deputy Sheriff Tom Halper (top left); Shelly King at the Lunch Box cafe in Dove Creek, Colo. (top right); Mike Porter and his daughter, Allison, 8, near Cortez, Colo. (above left); and Elaine Quackenbush near Gallup, N.M. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times; Gary Ruderman above right )(pg. F4); NO MORE -- On May 31, a federal agency officially changed Route 666 to Route 491.; AT LUNCH BOX CAFE -- Shelly King.; AT UTE CASINO -- Harold Graves, a dealer.; ON PATROL -- Tom Halper, deputy sheriff in Colorado. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times); TEACHER -- Elaine Quackenbush, near Gallup. (Gary Ruderman); WORN OUT -- A wrecking yard near Cortez. (Gary Ruderman)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); CITIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (70%); RELIGION (68%); SOCIAL SECURITY (65%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (63%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (55%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (50%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (50%) WILGOREN, JODI 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (96%); NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) GALLUP (NM); NEW MEXICO; COLORADO; MONTICELLO (UTAH); UTAH; 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



311 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Stocks Still on Rise Despite Mixed Economic Forecasts

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks ended slightly higher yesterday in a lackluster session in which investors digested a batch of economic data pointing to some improvement in economic conditions and took cues from individual company news.
 A jump in shares of AT&T helped offset a drop in Altria Group's stock on the Dow Jones industrial average. Shares of mortgage buyers Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae fell sharply as mounting concerns about the financial standing of the companies sent Freddie Mac shares to their lowest level since September 2000. 
 The government issued two reports showing jobless claims fell last week while retail sales inched up in May. 
The data, which met the expectations of economists, painted a picture of a tepid recovery. But several market analysts said stocks spent much of the session in directionless trading and played down the economic reports.
"There's fear out there among investors who are afraid of missing the rally," said Brian Pears, head of equity trading at Victory Capital Management. "The economic data was a nonevent. The retail figures were slightly better, but on jobless claims we're still above 400,000, so until that changes it doesn't mean a lot."
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 13.33 points, or 0.2 percent, to 9,196.55. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 1.03 points, or 0.10 percent, to 998.51, ending at its highest since late June 2002. The Nasdaq composite index was up 7.60 points, or 0.5 percent, at 1,653.62.
Since their March 11 lows, the three major gauges have risen 20 percent to 30 percent.
About 19 stocks rose for each 13 that fell on the New York Stock Exchange and gainers narrowly outnumbered decliners on Nasdaq. Trading was heavy with 1.52 billion shares traded on the Big Board and 1.78 billion on Nasdaq.
On Nasdaq, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, a generic drug maker based in Israel, jumped 6.5 percent, or $3.34, to $54.91, after Merrill Lynch reinstated coverage of the company with a buy rating and a $62 price target.
AT&T climbed $1.03, to $21.53, adding to the previous day's gain of 6 percent. Analysts attributed the increase in part to negative news from bankrupt competitor WorldCom and talk that AT&T could be a takeover target.
But Altria, parent of Philip Morris USA, fell after the highest court in Illinois declined to accept Philip Morris's direct appeal of a $10.1 billion ruling against it. Altria shares fell 1.8 percent, or 78 cents, to $42.90.
Freddie Mac lost $2.39, or 4.8 percent, to $47.35, and Fannie Mae shares fell $2.63, or 3.8 percent, to $67.07. Wachovia, an investment bank, cut its rating on both to market perform from outperform after federal prosecutors and securities regulators started to investigate Freddie Mac.
The dour news on earnings took its toll on some issues.
Quarterly earnings at H. J. Heinz fell sharply and its shares gave up 58 cents, to $33.82, or 1.7 percent. The company blamed higher costs for marketing, selling and distribution.
InterMune, a biotechnology company, sank $8.36, or 33 percent, to $16.74. It warned that its 2003 product sales would fall short of earlier estimates.
"Earnings misses and confessions are taking some hostages today," said Bryan Piskorowski of Prudential Securities.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Rise
By Bloomberg News
Treasury prices rose yesterday after a government report showed the number of people collecting unemployment benefits reached a 20-year high.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 14/32 , to a price of 103 29/32 . The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.16 percent from 3.22 percent on Wednesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond climbed 30/32 , to 118 28/32 . The bond's yield dropped to 4.21 percent from 4.27 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields"Graph tracks the average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly since Feb. 2003. 30-year: 4.71%15-year: 4.10% (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); GENERIC DRUGS (70%); RETAIL SALES (70%); APPEALS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); AT&T INC (86%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (85%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (85%); TEVA PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES LTD (64%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); VICTORY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (86%); MO (NYSE) (85%); TEVA (TASE) (64%); TEVA (NYSE) (64%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (86%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (85%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (64%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (56%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (51%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



312 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Offer Some Hope for Recovery 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12 

 BODY:
Consumers provided a modest boost to retail sales in May, a somewhat hopeful sign for the economy's revival. 
 The Commerce Department reported today that sales at retailers edged up 0.1 percent from the previous month, after a decline of 0.3 percent in April. 
 "It appears the consumers have begun to bounce back from Iraq-induced doldrums," said Rosalind Wells, chief economist at the National Retail Federation. 
Shoppers actually showed a stronger inclination to spend in May than suggested by the 0.1 percent rise. A 4.3 percent drop in revenue at gasoline stations reflected lower pump prices and restrained the overall growth in retail sales. Excluding gas station revenue, retail sales rose by a solid 0.4 percent. 
Consumers increased their purchases of furniture, electronics and appliances, and clothing. There was more revenue, as well, at restaurants and bars.
Despite the gains, shoppers still seem to be watching their spending. "Consumers may not be setting records for volume, but they've been buying the economy time to catch its breath," said Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock.
In another report, the Labor Department said new applications for unemployment benefits last week dropped by a seasonally adjusted 17,000, to 430,000. Even with the decline, claims have remained above 400,000, a level associated with a lackluster job market, for 17 weeks. 
In addition, the number of workers who continue to draw jobless benefits rose by 120,000, to a 20-year high of 3.8 million, in the week ended May 31, the most recent period when information is available. 
The Commerce Department reported separately that business inventories rose 0.1 percent in April as sales slid 1.5 percent. Over all, businesses remain wary of making big capital investments and of hiring. 
 The prices of imports edged lower in May, Bloomberg News reported, quoting the Labor Department. The import price index declined 0.3 percent after falling 3 percent in April. Excluding the cost of oil, the index decreased by 0.2 percent. 
In the retail report, sales of automobiles dipped 0.2 percent in May, despite free-financing offers and other incentives, after an increase in April of 1.7 percent. When autos and gasoline were excluded, retail sales increased by a brisk 0.6 percent. 
Sales at furniture stores rose by 1.1 percent, compared with a 0.5 percent increase in April. At electronics and appliance stores, sales increased 2.9 percent, up from April's 0.8 percent gain. 
Clothing store sales rose 1 percent, compared with a 1.8 percent decline in April. At department stores, sales rose 0.7 percent in May, after a 1.2 percent drop the month before.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Jobless Claims"Graph tracks the weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits (4-week moving average) for the first time from Dec. 2002-May 2003. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Graph: "Inventory-Sales Ratio"Graph tracks the total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted, from Nov. 2001-April 2003. Business Inventories and SalesBillions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. InventoriesApril: $1,172.16March: $1,170.60 SalesApril: 835.91March: 848.66 (Source: Commerce Department) Graph: "Retail Sales"Graph tracks the total retail and food services sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, from Dec. 2001-May 2003. Monthly ChangeMay: +0.1%April: -0.3March: +2.3 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (95%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); RETAILERS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (87%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); FURNITURE STORES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); IMPORT PRICES (75%); DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (72%); EMPLOYMENT (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LABOR 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (57%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



313 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Report Defends Vouchers But Fails to Quell Debate 

BYLINE:  By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12 

 BODY:
Hundreds of New York students transferred from public to private schools in the 1990's as part of a privately financed program that offered them scholarships resembling vouchers. And on this much there is wide agreement: their academic achievement, on average, did not improve.
 But a four-year academic debate rages on about whether the achievement of black students improved after they were transferred to the private schools. Respected social scientists on both sides of the voucher debate have reviewed the same research data and have drawn dramatically contrasting conclusions. 
 Today, two Harvard University professors, Paul E. Peterson and William G. Howell, whose multiyear study of the 1,300 New York students who transferred remains the largest randomized experiment to date on vouchers, issued a 38-page report defending their conclusion that African-American students who entered private schools scored significantly higher than their public school peers on standardized tests.
"The most significant finding in the data is that vouchers have a positive effect for African-Americans," Professor Peterson said at a news conference here.
Voucher proponents applauded those assertions after Professor Peterson first reported them in August 2000, during the presidential campaign, when George W. Bush supported vouchers and Al Gore opposed them. But weeks later, Dr. David Myers, a prominent sociologist who had participated in the study with Professor Peterson and Professor Howell, urged caution in drawing political conclusions from its results. Later, a Princeton economist, Alan B. Krueger, analyzed the same data and concluded that not even black children who transferred to private schools had shown significantly improved achievement.
Professors Peterson and Howell today attacked the methodology used by Professor Krueger, which they described as "rummaging theoretically barefoot through data in the hopes of finding desired results."
Immediately after the Harvard professors' news conference, the Economic Policy Institute, a Washington research group, invited Professor Krueger and several other academics who have studied vouchers and remain skeptical of their value to discuss the findings in a conference call.
"My conclusion after reviewing all the data is that these results are just not very robust," Professor Krueger said, using an academic term for data that hang together under repeated examination. "I don't think that offering vouchers brought any significant results for the African-American students, or for white or Hispanic students either."
The two sides dispute several methodological issues, including how students were identified as African-American; originally, children with a black mother and a white father were counted as black, but a child with a white mother and black father was held to be white.
Professor Peterson said today that his conclusions about the beneficial effects of private schools for black children only confirmed what other academics had written previously, noting that Cecilia Rouse of Princeton University once wrote that the overall impact of private schools is mixed, but that "it does appear that Catholic schools generate higher test scores for African-Americans."
But Professor Rouse, a colleague of Professor Krueger who also participated in the conference call today, said she had drawn that conclusion using "nonnumerical methodology" rather than from a review of any randomized study like the one done in New York. After reviewing the Harvard professors' study, she said she felt uncomfortable with their conclusions.
"Reasonable researchers will disagree about how to go about doing things," Professor Rouse said, "but here we see that the data are producing two different results when viewed two different ways, so that means the results are not robust. And Peterson has been very vocal in saying that these are strong results."
Well before he began the New York study in 1997, Professor Peterson had written several Op-Ed pieces extolling the virtues of voucher programs. But he said in an interview today that he had always been careful not to let his personal biases affect his interpretation of data. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BLACKS; PRIVATE AND SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; VOUCHERS; TESTS AND TESTING 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: AL GORE (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) PETERSON, PAUL E (PROF); HOWELL, WILLIAM G (PROF); KRUEGER, ALAN B; DILLON, SAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



314 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1738 words

PERSON: David Brinkley 

HEADLINE: David Brinkley, 82, Newsman Model, Dies 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SEVERO 

 BODY:
David Brinkley, the wry reporter and commentator whose NBC broadcasts with Chet Huntley from 1956 to 1970 helped to define and popularize television news in America, died on Wednesday night at his home in Houston. He was 82.
 In 1950, when Mr. Brinkley first went on the air, major news programs were no longer than 15 minutes. Later, the early-evening Huntley-Brinkley report became a television staple at a half-hour. Some of Mr. Brinkley's finest moments involved the coverage of politics by "The Huntley-Brinkley Report," particularly its live reporting from the party conventions, starting in 1956. 
 By 1964, the programs's coverage of the Democratic convention drew a remarkable 84 percent share of the viewers. Former President Bill Clinton has said the Huntley-Brinkley coverage of the conventions fueled his early interest in politics. Jeff Greenfield, the CNN news analyst, said, "David Brinkley created a whole generation of political junkies." 
Mr. Brinkley, whose pungent commentaries, delivered with a mixture of barely concealed skepticism and succinct candor, achieved a number of firsts, including writing and serving as the host for one of the earliest television news magazines, "David Brinkley's Journal," in the early 1960's. 
Mr. Brinkley liked to say that he had "done the news longer than anyone on earth." He summed up his career as the subtitle of his 1995 memoir, "David Brinkley": "11 Presidents, 4 Wars, 22 Political Conventions, 1 Moon Landing, 3 Assassinations, 2,000 Weeks of News and Other Stuff on Television and 18 Years of Growing Up in North Carolina."
His style of writing and delivering the news -- clipped sentences spoken in measured cadences and in a sardonic voice -- was echoed by legions of young television commentators, imitated by comedians and mimics, and instantly recognized.
His colleague Roger Mudd once observed that Mr. Brinkley "brought a level of political sophistication and literary craftsmanship and a lively sense of humor that television had never known before and that hasn't been equaled since."
Mr. Brinkley was among the last of a generation of reporters who got their basic training at newspapers and news agencies, then made their names in the new medium of television. That generation included John Chancellor, who died in 1996, and Walter Cronkite.
"In my own work I have, for better or worse, always dealt or tried to deal with everything that falls under the heading of news," Mr. Brinkley wrote in his 1996 book, "Everyone Is Entitled to My Opinion." "Just news. No specialty, no emphasis on this or that or anything else. Just whatever came in."
He described his commentaries as "the sauce, the spice, the flavoring to be mixed in with the wars, the medical discoveries and the economic upheavals that fill the front pages."
As part of the Huntley-Brinkley team, Mr. Brinkley held forth from Washington, while Huntley, a saturninely handsome correspondent who was given to punditry, reported from New York. The chemistry between the two, thanks largely to the controlled astringency of Mr. Brinkley's commentary, gave the broadcast a dominant place in the ratings, overtaking Mr. Cronkite's evening news program on CBS in two years.
Reuven Frank, the program's producer, was credited with conceiving its famous closing lines, "Good night, Chet," "Good night, David," "And good night for NBC News" as a gesture of warmth to offset the serious demeanors of Mr. Huntley and Mr. Brinkley and the seriousness with which they treated the nightly news. In later years Mr. Brinkley said he thought the sign-off was "silly and inappropriate." 
"The Huntley-Brinkley Report" ended with Mr. Huntley's retirement in 1970, but Mr. Brinkley remained at NBC for 11 years after Mr. Huntley's departure. Mr. Brinkley was an anchor of "Nightly News" with John Chancellor from 1976 to 1979 and for a while presided over "NBC Magazine." In the 1960's, he had also been the host of "David Brinkley's Journal." Both "Magazine" and "Journal" were critically acclaimed, although neither attracted as large a share of the television audience as critics thought they deserved.
In September 1981, Mr. Brinkley, then 61, said he was leaving NBC after 38 years "because there's nothing at NBC that I really want to do." The network had just picked Roger Mudd and Tom Brokaw as the anchors for "Nightly News" and Mr. Brinkley felt he had no role. He later called his departure "a rending, wrenching experience" that brought tears to his eyes.
He soon joined ABC News, where Roone Arledge was planning a Sunday morning program. ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley" at first featured Benjamin C. Bradlee, then editor of The Washington Post, and Karen Elliot House, a diplomatic reporter for The Wall Street Journal. Later it included George Will, Cokie Roberts and Sam Donaldson.
With Mr. Brinkley in charge, the program's blend of political news, commentary and sometimes quarrelsome debate established it as both a ratings leader and a trend setter on Sunday mornings. It also inspired a wave of similar programs.
Mr. Brinkley retired from his weekly stint as moderator of "This Week With David Brinkley" in November 1997, saying he would contribute commentary and perform other duties for the network. In the months leading up to his retirement, he observed that he had covered 22 national political conventions, which he had come to regard as "cruel and unusual punishment."
Along the way, though, he won 10 Emmys, 3 George Foster Peabody awards and, in 1992, the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President George H. W. Bush.
In 1998, he surprised many of his admirers in the news business when he agreed to become a spokesman for Archer-Daniels-Midland, the agribusiness giant. He had retired from ABC only months before. Archer had gotten itself into serious difficulty with the government in 1996, paying a $100 million fine for the price-fixing of food and feed additives.
So there was considerable dismay when Mr. Brinkley appeared for A-D-M on his old show with these self-introductory words: "Since television began, I have brought you the news -- wars, elections, victories, defeats. The news, straight and true. I will still speak straight and true. I'll never change that, but now I will bring you information about food, the environment, agriculture, issues of importance to the American people and the world."
Some of his colleagues in television news expressed reservations and puzzlement, since representing a corporation appeared to be in conflict with Mr. Brinkley's image of independence as a news man.
When the commercial turned up only on the program Mr. Brinkley had just retired from, ABC pulled the commercial, but reinstated it a few months later.
In his final election night program, in 1996, Mr. Brinkley delivered some parting shots, calling President Clinton a bore and telling voters they could expect more "goddamned nonsense" for the next four years.
After covering presidential elections since the 1956 Eisenhower-Stevenson race, the 1996 election was Mr. Brinkley's last as a broadcaster. Winding up a long night, when ABC correspondents gathered around Peter Jennings, the anchor, Mr. Brinkley said of the newly re-elected Mr. Clinton: "He has not a creative bone in his body. Therefore, he's a bore, and will always be a bore."
Callers flooded the network's phone lines to complain about or praise Mr. Brinkley's remarks. But he apologized to President Clinton a few days later.
David McClure Brinkley was born July 10, 1920, in Wilmington, N.C., the son of William Graham Brinkley, a railroad man, and Mary MacDonald West Brinkley. While he was still a student at New Hanover High School in Wilmington, he worked for a weekly newspaper, owned by a relative, providing a column about high school activities. It "was full of such racy items as who was buying 10-cent sodas for whom," Mr. Brinkley later said, "each one separated by three dots."
After high school, he attended the University of North Carolina and Vanderbilt University, but earned degrees from neither, because "I didn't think there was anything they could teach me," Mr. Brinkley said. He joined the Army in 1940 but was discharged for medical reasons a year later.
In 1942, he got a reporting job with United Press in Atlanta and later worked for the news agency in Montgomery, Ala., Nashville and Charlotte, N.C. He then moved to Washington, where NBC, impressed by his ability to write for the ear, hired him as a news writer. 
In his 1995 memoir Mr. Brinkley told how he came to deliver the news in his distinctive melodic fashion. In World War II, he said, he took to underlining words to insure the correct emphasis on the radio and developed his "jerky, labored way of speaking." 
In 1945, NBC made him the moderator of a television news show called "America United," which was shown in the Washington area. Mr. Brinkley liked to say that he made all his learning errors at a good time, because at that point, there were only a few hundred people with television sets in Washington.
NBC decided that Mr. Brinkley had on-camera talent and in 1950 made him a news commentator. The next year, be became Washington correspondent for NBC's nightly 15-minute news program, "Camel News Caravan," named after the cigarette company that sponsored it.
Mr. Brinkley was married twice. His first marriage, to Ann Fischer, ended in divorce. They had three sons, who survive him: Joel, of Chevy Chase, Md., a Washington correspondent for The New York Times; Alan, of New York, the incoming provost of Columbia University who is also the Allan Nevins professor of history there; and John, of Silver Spring, Md., a director of the United States Institute for Peace in Washington. In 1972 David Brinkley married Susan Adolph, who also survives him, as does her daughter from a previous marriage, Alexis Brinkley Collins, whom Mr. Brinkley adopted.
Over the years, Mr. Brinkley's commentaries remained consistently tart. He often railed at what he saw as the incompetence of big government. He came to think that Congress had dangerously isolated itself from the rest of the country. 
John J. O'Connor, reviewing this phase of his career for The Times, called Mr. Brinkley "one of the more articulate and persuasive practitioners" of television news reporting.
"The only way to do news on television is not to be terrified of it," Mr. Brinkley said. "Most of the news isn't very important. In fact, very little of it is."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An obituary of the television news anchor David Brinkley yesterday misspelled the name of a colleague on early ABC broadcasts of "This Week." She is Karen Elliott House, not Elliot.
An obituary of the television news anchor David Brinkley last Friday misidentified the CBS newsman whose broadcast was overtaken in the ratings by NBC's "Huntley-Brinkley Report" in the late 1950's. He was Douglas Edwards, not Walter Cronkite.

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Brinkley (ABC); Chet Huntley, left, and David Brinkley just before the inauguration of President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965. (Art Selby/NBC Photo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); POLITICS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (69%) TELEVISION; DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

ORGANIZATION: ABC INC; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

BILL CLINTON (57%) BRINKLEY, DAVID; SEVERO, RICHARD; BRINKLEY, JOEL; BRINKLEY, ALAN; BRINKLEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media 

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



315 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Town Holds Ex-P.O.W. in a Close Embrace 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: PALESTINE, W.Va., June 7 

 BODY:
When Pfc. Jessica D. Lynch finally gets back from the hospital and rolls the mile through the hollow of Mayberry Run Road, she will hardly recognize the house where she grew up sharing one of the two bedrooms with her sister and brother.
 Volunteers, moved by the story of the 20-year-old private who was captured in Iraq and then freed from a hospital there, have flattened the flank of a hill to make room for a garden. With donated machines and materials they have spread gravel for parking, laid electrical and telephone wire underground, installed two new bathrooms and added two bedrooms so Private Lynch can have one of her own. 
 They pushed the ceilings up to eight feet, leveled rickety floors, rebuilt the porch and installed new windows and double doors so Private Lynch can get around in the wheelchair she might need for a while. 
"Her bedroom, her bath, we've made all that handicap accessible," said the county's deputy sheriff, Sgt. Lewis Peck, who is giving up weekends and vacation time to manage the job.
In the weeks since the nation heard about the April 1 rescue of Private Lynch and saw video footage of her on a stretcher, much of the story of her capture and freedom has remained hazy, and the military has been sparing with the details of her recovery.
The Army has dismissed some news reports that Private Lynch's wounds included stabs and gunshots sustained in a firefight. And it has bristled at suggestions that the Pentagon, with a video camera running, dramatized the raid of an Iraqi hospital for political effect.
"She wasn't stabbed. She wasn't shot and she has some broken bones," said Lt. Col. James Casella, a Defense Department spokesman.
Walter Reed Medical Center simply reports that she has had surgery to fix a broken foot and "remains in satisfactory condition, undergoing occupational and physical therapy."
None of the uncertainties, however, have intruded upon the area's admiration for Private Lynch. "We're proud of her for serving, for going to Kuwait, for defending our country," said Deborah Hennen, the Wirt County assessor. Clifford Reynolds, 77, a longtime resident, said, "Jessica deserves everything she gets. I think this controversy is jealousy. She didn't do anything to deserve that."
Private Lynch's Wirt County, population just under 6,000, is a job-starved pocket of Appalachia just east of the Ohio River. It is one of those rural American places too poor or too proud to provide comprehensive social services to help the needy.
Nearly half the adults in Wirt County do not have jobs, the poverty rate is about 20 percent, and there has been too little money to take on projects like rebuilding the 41-year-old county swimming pool in Elizabeth, the county seat. But residents have banded together to remodel the home of Gregory O. Lynch Sr., a self-employed truck driver, his wife, Deadra, who worked for a photo processing company in Parkersburg, and their children, Jessica, her older brother, Gregory Jr., also a soldier, and her younger sister, Brandi, who has just finished high school.
People help neighbors with volunteered time, with auctions, $5 ham dinners, car washes, raffles and dollar bills they tie to money trees for someone in trouble. For Private Lynch, Ms. Hennen said, "We had a 'dip-and-donate' potluck dinner. Everybody brought a covered dish." At the end of the serving line the organizers put a bucket for contributions and then held an auction.
"We raised more than $13,000 that night," said Ms. Hennen, a friend of the family who has organized most of the countywide efforts for the Lynches.
With Private Lynch's parents out of work while they tend to their daughter in Washington, she said, "That was to help the Lynches pay their bills." More has flowed into an account for the family at the Elizabeth branch of WesBanco Bank of Wheeling, W.Va.
People here help out on their own terms, chasing off merchants who would exploit Private Lynch's celebrity unless she and her family get every penny of profit. Peggy Shears, the editor of the weekly Wirt County Journal, said that a man in Florida called asking for someone in town to sell his Jessica candles. He sent eight samples with pictures of Private Lynch stuck to them.
The newspaper could buy them from him for $21 and sell them for $24, Ms. Shears said he told her. "Get on the bandwagon," she recalled him saying. She turned him down. A couple of stores in the area sell Jessica Lynch T-shirts, but a businessman in Parkersburg provides them at cost, for $2. The stores sell them for $5, and the family gets $3.
"People here are not going to exploit that little girl," Ms. Shears said.
To organizations and government agencies that might offer buildings and grants, Diana Ludwig, executive director of the area economic development corporation, said: "No one wants to be seen as taking advantage of this child. We're trying to maintain the dignity of the family and the dignity of the community."
In tiny, bend-in-the-road Palestine, six miles from Elizabeth, outsiders have begun to grasp for a share of the town's bragging rights to a young soldier who is fast becoming a folk hero. "Home of Jessica Lynch, Ex-P.O.W.," say crisp new green-and-white signs on roads into Palestine and Elizabeth. "Compliments of City of Charleston," which is an hour's drive south of Palestine.
Palestine's original economic base, locks on the now unnavigable Little Kanawha River, dried up more than 50 years ago. With its grocery stores and gas stations long gone and the tractor repair shop shuttered and for sale, there is just the What-Not shop, a warren of bric-a-brac, candy, soda and used appliances. "Ain't much here to get ahead," said Mr. Reynolds, who was tending the shop.
Few here can fathom what being the hometown of a prisoner rescued in a faraway war might mean. "She's going to be on a pedestal the rest of her life," said Rhodes Wilson, 82, a retiree who moved back to town 20 years ago. "Palestine's going to be on the map. It's made a place in history." 
Mail for Private Lynch, once arriving at a rate of 1,000 pieces a day, has slowed. But unsorted letters a foot deep cover a bunk in one of Elizabeth's two jail cells, and unopened gifts fill the other cell floor to ceiling.
Berylann Lewis, Palestine's postmaster, said she would like to think that the ties to Private Lynch might boost the economy of a town with no jobs. A convenience store or a restaurant catering to tourists as well as townspeople might help, people say, without compromising the community's integrity.
But a lack of money and a wariness of exploitation has stifled most efforts. Ms. Lewis could be pressing the limits of commercialization with a handmade, prestamped postcard showing the post office that she sells at a loss for 25 cents, 2 cents more than the cost of the stamp on it. She is also designing an envelope for collectors with a Purple Heart stamp and a postmark that reads, "Jessica Lynch Station."
Inside the post office, Ms. Lewis has putup a "thinking of you" bulletin board honoring Private Lynch and two other soldiers from town, one still in Kuwait. Outside, a group known as the Friends of Mohammed has planted a flower garden in honor of Mohammed Odeh al-Rehaief, the Iraqi lawyer who led United States troops to Private Lynch. Mr. Rehaief has since been granted asylum in the United States and has become Palestine's No. 2 hero.
Across Wirt County, the big yellow ribbons that went up after Private Lynch's capture have faded to white, but many are being replaced with fresh ones. Some, made of wood and sheet metal, have been nailed up to stay. The cause behind them now is not her capture and freedom but her recovery. After two months, there is growing concern here that her healing seems slow. 
"She wanted to come home by the Fourth of July," said Ms. Hennen, "But I don't see that happening. Last I heard, she was able to walk on a walker but not down a hallway on her own. Her right leg is in a cast. Her left leg has pins and rods. She has some problems with her right hand. A month ago, she could grip a ball but couldn't release it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Private Lynch, 20, was freed on April 1 from an Iraqi hospital. (Reuters); While Private Lynch recuperates in Washington, volunteers have been remodeling the house, adding a garden, two bedrooms and new bathrooms. The community has also raised money to help the Lynch family. (Tim Parks for The New York Times); Pfc. Jessica D. Lynch's family home in Palestine, W.Va., left, in April. Private Lynch's parents, Deadra and Gregory O. Lynch Sr., at right with their daughter Brandi, thanked supporters on April 29. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (89%); BONE FRACTURES (89%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (78%); ARMIES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); SHERIFFS (67%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (67%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (65%); POOR POPULATION (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); POVERTY RATES (60%); DISABLED ACCESS (54%); SHOOTINGS (50%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (50%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; PRISONERS OF WAR; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: LYNCH, JESSICA (PFC); LYNCH, GREGORY SR; LYNCH, DEADRA; KILBORN, PETER T 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ; PALESTINE (W VA)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



316 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-18

U.S. Launches Big Attack On Iraqi Guerrilla Camp
American military forces unleashed airstrikes that killed dozens of people at a guerrilla camp north of Baghdad, and they continued an intensive effort to root out Baath Party loyalists in the area. A1

An Iraqi prisoner was killed by gunfire when he tried to escape from an American detainment camp in Baghdad. The attempted break-out came as investigators were examining possible American responsibility in the death of another Iraqi prisoner at a different camp. A21

Kurds driven out by Saddam Hussein's relocation campaign have begun to return to Iraq's north, and Arabs are migrating back to other parts of the country, but not everyone has a home to go back to. A21

Israelis Kill Hamas Leader
Israeli Army helicopters blasted a car in Gaza, killing a Hamas leader and six others. Israelis and Palestinians were still burying ing their dead from violence on Wednesday. A1

Riots Disrupt Life in Iran
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme religious leader, accused the United States of trying to foment disorder in the Islamic Republic, where a third day of of antigovernment riots initiated by students continued to disrupt life in Tehran. A8

Rumsfeld Threatens Belgium
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld threatened to set up a new NATO headquarters elsewhere if Belgium did not rescind a law that has been used to accuse American officials of war crimes. A3

More Attacks in Congo
Members of the United Nations Security Council renewed their promise to restore law and order to Congo, but attacks against aid workers and civilians continued in Bunia. A7

Vote on U.S. Peacekeepers
France, Germany and Syria abstained from a United Nations Security Council vote approving continued exemption for American peacekeepers from the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. A8

NATIONAL A24-30

Stricter Rules Are Planned For Terror Case Suspects
Federal authorities said they planned to use stricter standards for identifying and jailing terrorist suspects in light of concerns about the mistreatment of hundreds of illegal immigrants after Sept. 11, 2001. A1

Medicare Overhaul Approved
An influential Senate committee approved the biggest expansion of Medicare in its 38-year history, with an overwhelming bipartisan vote to add prescription drug benefits. A28

Bush Promotes Generic Drugs
President Bush announced new rules that make it easier to introduce lower-cost generic versions of prescription drugs, stepping up his efforts to address health care issues ahead of next year's election. A28

House Backs Child Tax Credit
The House voted to increase child tax credits for 6.5 million low-income families, but only as part of a larger $82 billion tax cut bill that provides 96 percent of its benefits to middle- and upper-income taxpayers. A28

S.U.V. Ban Recommended
California's treasurer and its Senate president pro tem announced that they would seek legislation to ban state agencies from buying new S.U.V.'s, citing a budget crunch. A24

EDUCATION

College Costs to Rise
Millions of college students will have to shoulder more of the cost of their educations under federal rules imposed late last month requiring neither Congressional approval nor public comment of any kind. A1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

An Extinction Before Dinosaurs
Geologists are reporting several lines of evidence that point to a meteor impact that coincided with a mass extinction some 380 million years ago that killed off many creatures before the extinction of the dinosaurs. A22

NEW YORK/REGION B1-12

New Yorkers Pessimistic About the City's Future
Dispirited by job losses, tax increases and service cuts, New Yorkers say they are increasingly pessimistic about their city, according to the latest New York Times poll. Mayor Bloomberg received the lowest approval rating for a mayor since The Times began polling about mayoral performance in 1978. A1

2 Charged in Seton Hall Fire
Authorities charged a Seton Hall University student and a former student with arson and murder in setting the 2000 late-night dormitory fire that killed three students. B1

New Head at Children's Agency
New Jersey state officials said they had hired a nationally recognized administrator with a history of reforming failed child welfare systems as the director of the state's child welfare agency. B1

OBITUARIES A30-31

David Brinkley
The wry reporter and commentator whose NBC broacasts with Chet Huntley from 1956 to 1970 helped to define and popularize television news in America, he was 82. A30

Gregory Peck
The actor whose chiseled, slightly melancholy good looks, resonant baritone and quiet strength made him an unforgettable presence in Hollywood films, he was 87. A1

WEEKEND E1-30; E31-42

ESCAPES F1-14

'Devil's Highway' No More
Politicians in New Mexico, Colorado and Utah petitioned the federal government to change the number of Route 666, arguing that the New Testament's association of 666 with Satan was impairing the economic vitality of the towns along its route. Now it is known as Route 491. F1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Plea by Medical Device-Maker
A division of Guidant, a maker of medical devices, pleaded guilty to 10 felonies, admitting that it lied to the government and hid thousands of serious health problems caused by one of its products. A1

Oracle's Bid Rejected
The board of PeopleSoft officially rejected Oracle's $5.1 billion hostile takeover bid. The board contended that the offer is "designed to disrupt" PeopleSoft and its planned merger with J. D. Edwards. C1

Three From Dynegy Charged
Three former employees of Dynegy were charged with securities fraud and conspiracy for their role in a secretive project aimed at disguising a $300 million loan as cash flow. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

SPORTS D1-7

EDITORIAL A32-33

Editorials: The vanishing uranium; John Ashcroft and gay pride; shooting for 300; David Brinkley and Gregory Peck.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E41
TV Listings E29
Public Lives B4
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HAMAS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); GENERIC DRUGS (86%); MEDICARE (85%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); WAR CRIMES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%); RIOTS (72%); FAMILY (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); RELIGION (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (65%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (62%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (60%); HELICOPTERS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (72%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ALI KHAMENEI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



317 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Optimistic Investors vs. Pessimistic Bosses 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
FROM the top of corporate America, things look awfully glum. But those not in executive suites seem to be more optimistic.
 That divergence of opinion is the most striking thing about the current investment outlook. And odd as it may seem, there is a good chance that the bosses may be wrong. 
 The current stock market rally is already the longest, biggest and broadest one since the great bull market ended in 2000 with a bursting bubble. It is also the only one that has been accompanied by a rising Treasury bond market. The Standard & Poor's 500 is up 24.7 percent since March 11, while the yield on 10-year Treasuries has plunged to 3.16 percent. And this has been a rising tide that has lifted almost all boats. About 95 percent of all stocks have gained.
That kind of performance has been just what the doctor ordered for the spirits of newsletter writers. The latest numbers from Investors Intelligence, which has been surveying such writers for decades, show that bulls outnumber bears by 3.6 to 1, the biggest ratio since the spring of 1987. With stocks rising, long-term interest rates falling and the Federal Reserve hinting it will lower short-term rates again, what's not to like?
Plenty, the bosses seem to think. Investors may see signs of an economic revival, but corporate America doesn't. The Fed's beige book this week found only a little evidence, in chats with company executives, of renewed economic growth. In the long-suffering information technology and software industries, the Boston Fed reported, "most respondents point to mid-2004 as the earliest date for an economywide expansion, but caution that clear signssupporting that expectation are lacking."
Mid-2004, it is safe to say, is not when the market expects the economy to turn up. But much of corporate America is acting as if it thought no turn would ever arrive. Companies are keeping inventories lean and capital spending down. There is a great reluctance to add workers. And the statistics on stock sales by corporate insiders show a big increase over the last couple of months. The bosses have viewed this rally as a great selling opportunity.
It takes a certain amount of hubris to assume that the bosses are wrong about such things. Indeed, David Coleman, the editor of Vickers Weekly Insider, says the selling has been so strong that he has sold all the stocks in his model portfolio, which is up 23 percent this year. He calls the insider selling "a strong indication that the market is susceptible to a significant retrenchment."
But there are other ways to look at it. Bosses know their companies and are often right, but they can miss big turning points in the economy. They were big sellers in late 1982, as the big bull market began, and they were buyers at the top in early 2000. Phil Roth, the chief technical market analyst at Miller Tabak, was rightly alarmed by a surge in insider selling in the spring of 2002. Now he thinks the market can overcome it.
In the spring of 2000, Alan Greenspan was speaking with great respect of the new economy and citing the buoyant opinions of technology stock analysts. Lately he has been talking of ways the Fed could hold down longer-term rates even after short-term rates have fallen as low as they can go. Investors now seem to be quite willing to believe that means long-term rates will not rise, just as in 2000 they were confident that technology stocks could not fall.
Therein lies the real contrarian bet for this market. "I think we are going to have a better economy, and then a sell-off in the bond market," said Robert J. Barbera, the chief economist of ITG/Hoenig. If so, the big test for this stock market could come after interest rates begin to rise, not while we are waiting to learn whether the pessimism of the bosses is justified.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Post-2000 rallies."10-YEAR TREASURY YIELD April 4 to May 21, 01S.& P. 500: +19.0%CHANGE IN BASIS POINTS: +46 Sept. 21 to Dec. 5, 01S.& P. 500: +21.2%CHANGE IN BASIS POINTS: +20 Oct. 9 to Nov. 27, 02S.& P. 500: +20.9%CHANGE IN BASIS POINTS: +69 March 11 to June 12, 03S.& P. 500: +24.7%CHANGE IN BASIS POINTS: - 42 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WRITERS (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INSIDER TRADING (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



318 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Change in Aid Rule Means Larger Bills For College Students 

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER 

 BODY:
Millions of college students will have to shoulder more of the cost of their education under federal rules imposed late last month through a bureaucratic adjustment requiring neither Congressional approval nor public comment of any kind.
 The changes, only a slight alteration in the formula governing financial aid, are expected to diminish the government's contribution to higher education by hundreds of millions of dollars, starting in the fall of 2004. 
 But they will also have a ripple effect across almost every level of financial aid, shrinking the pool of students who qualify for federal awards, tightening access to billions of dollars in state and institutional grants and, in turn, heightening the reliance on loans to pay for college.
How much more money this may require of students and their parents will vary widely, changing with every set of circumstances that make families unique. Some families may be expected to pay an extra $100 or less each year, while others may owe well over $1,000 more. 
"The seemingly insignificant publishing of an obscure table in the Federal Register has serious consequences on the individual," said Joe Paul Case, dean of financial aid at Amherst College.
While many college administrators characterized the change as a backdoor way to cut education spending, without public discussion, the Department of Education says it was simply executing its responsibilities under federal law.
Whether furnished by colleges, states or the federal government, the vast majority of the nation's $90 billion in financial aid is dictated by a single, intricate equation known as the federal need analysis. Its purpose is to decipher how much of a family's income is truly discretionary and therefore fair game for covering college expenses.
Much like the federal income tax, the formula allows families to deduct some of what they pay in state and local taxes. But, this year, the department significantly reduced that amount, in some cases cutting it in half. On paper, at least, that leaves families with more money left over to pay for college, even though state and local taxes have gone up over the last year, not down.
"This is a classic mismatch between public policy and the world that the students and families are actually living in," said Patrick M. Callan, president of the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education. "If somebody put in a bill about this, it would get a hell of a debate, wouldn't it?"
The Education Department acknowledges that there is a disconnect between the formula and the current trajectory of state and local taxes, but contends that there is little it can do to remedy the situation. 
Federal law requires that it update the tax tables periodically, and the data from which it draws comes directly from the Internal Revenue Service. The problem is, the department says, the most recent data is at least three years old, reflecting a period when state taxes were considerably lower than what they are now. 
"I don't know what to do about that," said Dan Madzelan, chief of forecasting and policy analysis for the department's office of postsecondary education. "There's always some kind of a look back in the federal system."
Because discretionary income is unique to each family -- entirely dependent on its size, income, the number of children it has in college and, for tax purposes, where it lives -- there is no set amount that educational expenses will change.
The department has yet to come up with its own figures, but an analysis was conducted by Human Capital Research, an Illinois-based consulting firm that helps universities set enrollment and aid. Its methodology was vetted by financial aid officers, and the Education Department described it as generally sound.
In the 2004-2005 academic year, when the changes first take effect, parents in places like New York, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Oregon, and Washington, D.C., who earn $50,000 a year may be expected to contribute $700 or so beyond what they are already paying, according to the analysis. Those earning about $25,000 may owe only an extra $165 or less, while families earning $80,000 could be expected to pay an additional $1,100 or more.
Families in Florida and California should experience a smaller increase, probably less than $500 for those earning $50,000 and about $750 for those earning $80,000. In other states like Michigan, Delaware, South Carolina or Wisconsin, the burden will likely be greater. Families earning around $25,000 may be expected to contribute an extra $220 or less, those earning $50,000 may owe $940 more, while their counterparts with $80,000 incomes may be obliged to part with an additional $1,500.
"In the scheme of things it may not always seem like a lot of money, but in aggregate there's no question that we're talking about a swing of billions of dollars," said Brian Zucker, president of Human Capital Research. "It brings a lot of uncertainty into play, and it's truly going to require a considerable effort on the part of institutions to work with families and be sensitive to this extra hit that they will face." 
Though it believes that family contributions will rise, the department points out that the new formula includes some extra leeway for inflation and the protection of personal assets, making it difficult to predict how each individual's financial picture will change.
Still, the changes should shave off a few hundred million dollars in grants to low-income students, known as the Pell Grant. With the faltering economy and the swelling popularity of college, the program has surpassed $11 billion a year. The new formula should constrain some of that growth, the department says, though it maintains that was never the intent of recalibrating it.
Because the size of each Pell grant is tailored to a family's discretionary income, the formula changes will result in smaller awards for some of the 4.8 million recipients in the program. Other recipients will stop getting grants altogether, the department added, since their resources will be deemed that much higher, pushing them beyond the program's eligibility requirements.
"The way those students will make up the difference is that they'll work more, going to college half time and working part time," said Ken Redd, research director for the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators. "It's not that they won't go to college, it'll just take them an extra year or two to finish, if they finish at all."
The changes are expected to go far beyond federal grants, because billions of dollars in state, college and university grants are distributed every year with strict adherence to the federal formula. As long as students receive some federal assistance, even private institutions must follow the government's determination of how much a family should pay. 
"There is a major accessibility crisis looming in higher education, said Janet L. Holmgren, president of Mills College in Oakland. "And this will only exacerbate it." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FAMILY (89%); BUDGETS (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); APPROVALS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); INCOME TAX (63%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: WINTER, GREG 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



319 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Guidant Unit Pleads Guilty To Hiding Device's Flaws
A division of Guidant pleaded guilty to 10 felonies, admitting that it lied to the government and hid serious health problems, including 12 deaths, caused by one of its products.
 The company agreed to pay $92.4 million in criminal and civil penalties, the largest ever imposed against a maker of medical devices for failing to report the problems. Page A1. 

Regulators Criticize Freddie Mac
Regulators and lawmakers criticized Freddie Mac after the company disclosed that its former chief executive would receive a $24 million severance package. John W. Snow, the treasury secretary, also said that Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, which together finance almost half of all the nation's mortgages, might need tougher oversight. The comments worried investors, who sent shares of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae lower. C3.

House Approves Child Tax Credits
The House voted to increase child tax credits for 6.5 million low-income families, but only as part of a larger $82 billion tax cut bill that provides 96 percent of its benefits to middle- and upper-income taxpayers. A28.

Medicare Drug Benefit Advances
With lawmakers from both parties poised to approve the biggest expansion of Medicare in its 38-year history, an influential Senate panel took the first critical votes on a bill to revamp the program and add a long-promised prescription drug benefit. A28.

Ex-Mobil Oil Official Pleads Guilty
J. Bryan Williams, a former executive at Mobil Oil, pleaded guilty to evading taxes on more than $7 million in unreported income, including a $2 million kickback in connection with Mobil's oil business in Kazakhstan. C2.

Stocks Continue to Move Higher
Stocks edged higher with the Dow Jones industrial average climbing 13.33 points, to 9,196.55. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 1.03 points, to 998.51, and the Nasdaq composite index was up 7.60 points, to 1,653.62. C6.

Retail Sales Rose Slightly in May
Retail sales increased 0.1 percent in May, the Commerce Department reported. In addition, the Labor Department said new applications for unemployment benefits dropped by a seasonally adjusted 17,000, to 430,000. C3.

Jane Pauley to Get a Daytime Show
Jane Pauley, left, the longtime anchor of "Today," will be the host of a syndicated daytime talk show on NBC starting in the fall of 2004. Soledad O'Brien, the co-anchor of NBC's "Weekend Today" show, announced that she would join CNN in July as co-anchor of "American Morning" with Bill Hemmer. C5.

Technology Offering Climbs 25%
Shares of FormFactor rose more than 25 percent, to $17.58, in their first day of trading. The company, a maker of computer chip testing equipment, sold 6 million shares at $14 each, raising $84 million in the first initial public offering by a United States technology company this year. C6.

Washington Backs Boeing Tax Plan
The Washington State House and Senate passed tax breaks worth $400 million to entice Boeing to build a new jetliner in the state. C3.

XO Alters Bid for Global Crossing
XO Communications sweetened its bid for Global Crossing after an earlier offer was spurned by Global Crossing's creditors. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,196.55 up 13.33Nasdaq composite -- 1,653.62 up 7.6010-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.16% down 0.06The euro -- $1.1765 up 0.0011The dollar -- 117.53 yen down 0.06 Graph: "TODAY" Balance of TradeApril figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -$42.0 billion Graph tracks the balance of trade since Oct. 2002. Producer PricesMay figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.2% Graph tracks the percentage change of producer prices since Nov. 2002. Graph tracks the share price of Freddie Mac since last Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (84%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FELONIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); FAMILY (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); SEVERANCE PAY (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (64%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (61%); RETAIL SALES (61%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%) SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: KAZAKHSTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



320 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: House Expands Child Credit As Part of a Larger Tax Cut 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12 

 BODY:
The House voted today to increase child tax credits for 6.5 million low-income families, but only as part of a larger $82 billion tax-cut bill that provides 96 percent of its benefits to middle- and upper-income taxpayers.
 Over the furious objections of Democrats who were not allowed to bring up an alternative measure, House Republicans voted not to include language from a bill passed by the Senate last week that would immediately send checks of up to $400 per child to families with minimum-wage incomes. While those families, making between $10,500 and $26,625, could get the increased credits under the House bill, they could have to wait until next year and claim a refund when filing their tax return. The bill provides $3.5 billion in benefits to those families. 
 By contrast, more than 25 million middle-class families will get immediate checks for their tax credit, which will be mailed beginning next month, and the bill allows them to receive the credit through 2010. The bill adds millions of wealthier families making between $110,000 and $200,000 to those who will eventually receive credits, but they would also have to wait for their checks.
House Republican staff members said they intended for the low- and high-income families to eventually receive checks but left out the provision to give the Treasury Department flexibility on when to issue the refunds. Nothing in the bill, however, requires the government to issue advance checks. 
The bill also drops a Senate provision that allows combat pay to be counted when calculating the child credit. Removing the provision has the effect of cutting the credit for many families with parents who served in Iraq or Afghanistan.
"There is one question on the floor today," said Representative Martin Frost, Democrat of Texas. "Do you want to give to military and working families at least a fraction of the tax cuts that Republicans have given the millionaires? If the answer is no, then proudly explain why these hard-working, tax-paying families don't deserve tax relief."
But Republicans said the bill also included provisions that allowed military families a tax break when they sold their homes or for dependent-care expenses. Families of the astronauts who died when the space shuttle Columbia broke up also get tax breaks in the bill.
House Republicans said the principal purpose of tax-cut legislation was to stimulate economic growth, not to provide checks for families who do not pay income tax. If Democrats want to give a break to low-income families, several Republicans said, they must also be willing to give a break to middle-class families who pay a greater share of federal taxes.
"I know those New Yorkers who make $100,000 in their income, or $150,000, if you're a fireman or a cop or a teacher or a salesman working the store, I know you're not rich," said Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, Republican of New York. "I know you're Middle America. And I know that as we look at fair tax relief, it's not just helping the poor, we're trying to make sure we take care of the middle class."
The 224-to-201 vote on the measure was largely along party lines, but nine Democrats voted for it, and nine Republicans voted against it.
The House legislation now goes to what is likely to be a contentious conference with Senators. Many Senate Republicans have said the House proposal has little chance of passage in the Senate because its cost will be added to the nation's budget deficit, while the Senate bill pays for its $10 billion cost by raising customs fees.
A deadlock in the conference will give Democrats more time to portray Republicans as neglecting the poor, and as a result many Republicans expect the White House to step in quickly with a compromise. On Monday, Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, told House leaders to pass the Senate bill, but when that directive was met with stony opposition, the administration backed off.
Today, after Democrats claimed that the White House opposed the House bill, the Bush administration said that it supported the bill, while urging the House and Senate "to quickly resolve their differences."
Last month, after President Bush signed into law a $350 billion package of tax cuts and state assistance, it seemed unlikely that tax legislation would rush back to center stage on Capitol Hill. But when it came to light that the law did not provide an increased child tax credit to minimum-wage families, Republican senators hastened to escape a storm of criticism by approving the credits on a 94-to-2 vote and urging the House to quickly do the same.
House leaders, accusing the Senate of falling into a Democratic trap, said they had no intention of rubber-stamping the Senate bill. Brushing off the White House demands for quick passage, House leaders said the tax credits would only be approved as part of a much-larger tax bill. Several members made it clear that they considered a tax refund for people who do not pay income taxes to be the equivalent of welfare.
"It's not a credit, it's someone else's money," said Representative Spencer Bachus, Republican of Alabama, in today's debate. "If we want to turn our income tax code into a welfare system, let's be honest with the American people that's what we are doing."
Democrats were withering in their criticism of the House bill, particularly the decision not to provide immediate checks to minimum-wage families. "The Republicans give new meaning to the biblical phrase, 'suffer the little children,' " said Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader.
Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee and author of the bill, said the check provision was not left out through malice and said senators were free to bring it up in conference. The combat-pay provision could also come up again in the conference, Mr. Thomas said, noting that the Senate bill allows combat pay to be counted as income for the child credit but not for paying income tax.
The conference is likely to be bitterly divided, with senators refusing to accept a bill that raises the deficit and House members refusing to approve one that does not. It will also, as Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House Republican leader, said today, "crystallize the differences between the two parties."
But Democrats said today's action was little more than an indirect attempt by the House to kill the tax credits by including them in a bill that Republicans knew could not pass the Senate. Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate Democratic leader, called the House bill "unjust," and Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, said it was "one of the most cynical and hypocritical moves" he had ever seen.
"The Republicans actually think that the child of a combat veteran should receive a smaller child tax credit than the child of a member of Congress because the member pays more income tax," Mr. Rangel said. "Their tax cut plans put the wealthy first and punish those who sacrifice the most for their families and their country." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); SPACE SHUTTLE (60%) TAXATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ELECTION ISSUES; TAX CREDITS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (73%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



321 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 73 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Germany: Cuts For Carmaker 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

 BODY:
 The chief executive of Volkswagen, Bernd Pischetsrieder, said that cost reductions were needed at the company as economic growth in the company's main markets stagnated. 
"All expenses must be reviewed," Mr. Pischetsrieder said. "Each worker can and must make a contribution to ensure the future." Mr. Pischetsrieder said he did not expect the economies of Western Europe, the United States or South America to improve in the short term.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); EXECUTIVES (86%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES

ORGANIZATION: VOLKSWAGEN AG 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (66%); WESTERN EUROPE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



322 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Goal Is to Lay Cornerstone at Ground Zero During G.O.P. Convention 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Rebuilding officials said yesterday that they hoped to complete a review of the environmental impact of the proposed construction at the World Trade Center site by next April. This would allow them to lay the cornerstone of a 1,776-foot tower in August 2004, during the Republican National Convention.
 The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation is expected to be the lead agency on the environmental review, according to a letter, released yesterday, from the agency to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, which is overseeing the federally financed rebuilding project. 
 In giving the corporation less than a year to complete an environmental impact statement and review, officials said they realized that they were setting an aggressive timetable. 
John C. Whitehead, the corporation chairman, said the schedule "is a very ambitious one," particularly given the large number of city, state and federal agencies that will have a voice in the project.
But, he said, "we should be able to present a pretty clean case to the environmental people." Mr. Whitehead added: "Environmental issues often hold up projects for years and years, as we all know. We simply must not allow that to happen."
Some environmental advocacy organizations said they believed that the schedule set by the corporation, a city-state agency, was feasible, if optimistic.
"These things are rarely done in that kind of time period," Ronald Shiffman, director of the Pratt Institute Center for Community and Environmental Development, said in an interview. "The good news is that they want to move it quickly and efficiently, as long as they don't bypass the public review process."
The schedule calls for a draft statement laying out the scope of the projects at the trade center site to be released next week, after final adoption by the development corporation's board. A public hearing on the projects will be conducted on July 23. A draft environmental impact statement will be released in October, with further hearings in November. The final environmental impact statement and general project plan is scheduled to be completed in April.
Kevin Rampe, the interim president of the development corporation, said the agency could begin construction even earlier in the summer of 2004 if the environmental review process is completed. Officials also pointed out that the agency began a search for consultants to work on the environmental review as early as April 2002, so the timeline was not as short as it might appear.
The development corporation also agreed to schedule a series of community forums throughout Lower Manhattan this year to hear from residents and business owners about community priorities for the $1.3 billion in remaining federal funds being held by the agency.
Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg have disagreed about some of the potential uses for the money, with the governor generally favoring transportation and other structural projects and the mayor seeking funds for housing and improvements to the East River waterfront.
Advocates for low-income housing packed the development corporation's board meeting yesterday and silently held up signs asking the agency to turn over some of the money for housing projects. Last year, the Bloomberg administration requested that the agency set aside some of the money to help create new housing downtown.
Bettina Damiani, a project director for Good Jobs New York and an organizer of the housing protest yesterday, said the current plans for new housing in Lower Manhattan created "economic segregation" because it would be affordable only for those with high incomes.
Mr. Whitehead said, however, that the agency's remaining money "needs to be spent for a great number of different purposes, and this is not the only one."
Daniel Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, told reporters yesterday that the mayor and the governor were having "early but productive discussions" about how the $1.3 billion would be spent.
Mr. Whitehead created a brief tempest yesterday when, in response to a reporter's question, he said that "the door is slightly ajar" to raising the trade center's memorial to ground level from 30 feet below ground, where Daniel Libeskind, the architect, had placed it. Some downtown residents have sought the change, saying it would make it easier to cross the site.
Later, however, the corporation released a statement reversing Mr. Whitehead's remarks. The statement quoted him as saying: "We are committed to preserving Libeskind's vision, a hallmark of which is the recessed memorial setting, and the winning memorial design must be consistent with that vision."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about rebuilding at the World Trade Center site misstated the goal of development officials in setting an aggressive environmental review schedule. It is to start construction next summer, not to lay a cornerstone for the first tower during the Republican National Convention. (State officials had considered that at one point, but they recently decided not to do so, a spokeswoman for Gov. George E. Pataki said yesterday.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); CITIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); AIRLINES (69%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ENVIRONMENT 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%) LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) WHITEHEAD, JOHN C; WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



323 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Economy Quickens In New York Region 

BYLINE:  By Janny Scott (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez 

 BODY:
 The Federal Reserve's regular survey of economic conditions nationwide found "fairly widespread signs of a pickup" in the New York region. The signs included a strengthening labor market, increased activity in the real estate market and hints of improvement in financial-sector hiring. 
The survey, called the Beige Book and published eight times a year, also found bankers reporting increased demand for loans, especially for home mortgages. The anecdotal findings, released late Wednesday, come two weeks after the New York City's unemployment rate dropped for the second straight month. Jason Bram, an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said, "It still leaves open the question is this the beginning of a trend or is this just a good month?" Janny Scott (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); TRENDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); HOUSING MARKET (87%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; REAL ESTATE; BANKS AND BANKING; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: SCOTT, JANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



324 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: In Iraq, Things Really Aren't That Bad 

BYLINE:  By George Ward; George Ward, former coordinator for humanitarian assistance in the Office of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance for Iraq, is head of the training program at the United States Institute of Peace.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Two months after the fall of Saddam Hussein's regime, Iraq is widely depicted as a nation in chaos, with armed gangs dominating Baghdad's streets amid a widespread breakdown of public services. Having returned from Iraq two weeks ago, I believe this picture is distorted. In fact, we may soon look back at the postwar looting as only a bump in a long road. 
 Before the war, those of us planning for post-conflict Iraq worried about these possibilities: up to one million refugees, widespread food shortages, epidemics, acute homelessness, a shutdown of the oil industry and general lawlessness. 
 In the end, only the last became reality. Particularly in Baghdad, large-scale looting and street crime have severely damaged public facilities, and made it difficult for ordinary Iraqis to reclaim their lives. 
Why did this happen? First, an excellent war plan spared civilian targets and achieved swift victory with a relatively small force. Yet this force was neither of the right makeup nor equipped to provide postwar security. Also, planners had hoped that significant numbers of Iraqi police would remain on duty after the conflict. Hope, it is said, is not a plan, and should not have been one in this case. We knew that Iraq's police forces were corrupt, politically tainted, despised by the population and ill trained, and thus should not have expected them to play a helpful role. Third, American civilian and military planners have been slow to get on the same page on security. 
Still, Iraq is in most respects further along the road to recovery than we could have expected before the war. All major public hospitals in Baghdad are again operating. Sixty percent of Iraq's schools are open. Nationwide distribution of food supplies has resumed. Despite some damage to the oil wells, petroleum production exceeds domestic needs, and exports should begin again soon. More Iraqis are receiving electric power than before the war. This progress is the result of efforts by capable Iraqi civil servants working with experts from the coalition governments and international humanitarian groups. 
The long-term goals in Iraq now are public security, a transition to a representative system of government and the creation of a free-market economy. To achieve these goals, we need to take three short-term steps.
First, within two months every Iraqi police station should receive a small group of trained international advisers, armed and with power of arrest. The United States should step up its efforts to recruit foreign constabulary and military police forces, particularly from Islamic countries. 
As soon as the oil industry begins turning a profit on exports, we should give every Iraqi family a monthly payment. This would instantly dispel the popular myth that the coalition's intent was to seize Iraq's oil assets. It would eliminate widespread dependence on government food rations and could jump-start the consumer economy.
Last, pending the organization of an interim Iraqi government, coalition planners should help start grass-roots forums on shaping the country in each of Iraq's 18 provinces. Such discussions should be led by neutral third parties and include all Iraqi groups, including women. A democratic tradition exists only in the Kurdish north. Iraqis are divided by religious, ethnic, tribal and ideological schisms. 
Most popular debate now focuses on past injustices rather than future possibilities. No democratic Iraqi government will long survive unless it maintains popular support. By creating a nationwide dialogue, the coalition could foster the emergence of a new generation of leaders able to rise above tribal and religious divisions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); TRENDS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (75%); FOOD CHARITIES (75%); CORRUPTION (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); REFUGEES (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); POLITICS (65%); HOSPITALS (63%); RELIGION (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; LOOTING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) WARD, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



325 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Steps Up Pressure on Burmese Junta 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, June 12 

 BODY:
The United States increased pressure today on the military junta in Myanmar, as Congress moved to enact tough penalties and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said the repression of democracy advocates "will not be allowed to stand."
 Mr. Powell said the White House supported the punitive steps, which would bar imports from the former Burma, freeze the government's assets in the United States, widen a ban on visas for its leaders and block aid from international lenders. 
 In a commentary published in The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Powell said, "It is time to reassess our policy toward a military dictatorship that has repeatedly attacked democracy and jailed its heroes." 
On May 30, military-backed thugs attacked a motorcade of the leader of the democratic opposition, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, killing or injuring scores of people. It then arrested dozens of her supporters, locked her party's offices and placed her under what it calls "protective custody."
The moves ended the junta's already waning compromise with Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's party, the National League for Democracy, and signaled a return to harsh suppression of dissent. With the rulers of the poor and isolated nation hunkered down and its Asian neighbors reluctant to join in economic sanctions, analysts said the United States was playing a fairly weak hand.
"The junta that oppresses democracy inside Burma must find that its actions will not be allowed to stand," Mr. Powell said. But the generals have withstood international condemnation since they seized power in 1988 by crushing a peaceful popular uprising.
A five-year-old ban on new investment by American companies and other political and economic pressure have done little.
Instead the generals have strengthened their ties with Asian neighbors, signing trade agreements with China, India, Bangladesh and Thailand. For China the payoff goes beyond economics to geopolitics, offering potential access through Myanmar to the Indian Ocean.
Without the cooperation of Asian countries, sanctions can have only limited effect, Thomas J. Vallely, a Southeast Asia expert at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, said in an e-mail interview.
"Is it worth using diplomatic capital for Burma with China when North Korea has a higher priority?" he asked. "Probably not. That is one reason to be pessimistic."
That difficulty was underscored today when a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman said, "We believe this is something between the Myanmar government and the opposition, and an internal affair of Myanmar."
Making no reference to democracy or human rights, the spokesman, Kong Quan, said China's priority was to "maintain political stability and economic development."
In Malaysia today, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad reaffirmed a similar hands-off "constructive engagement" policy among Myanmar's Southeast Asian neighbors.
"It is not very constructive if we keep on pressing people," he said. "Whenever they comply with something there is no reward. If they do something else, more pressure is applied. It is unproductive."
Secretary Powell said he would try next week to change that attitude when he attends a meeting in Cambodia of the foreign ministers of the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations, which includes Myanmar.
Sanctions are a controversial tactic, though, for more than political reasons. Like war, they produce collateral damage -- in Myanmar's case harming the 350,000 people who have found work in garment factories.
"That industry will die, that's all," said U Khin Maung Kyi, a Burmese economist who lives in Singapore.
American imports from Myanmar totaled about $356 million last year, about 85 percent of them textiles, clothing and footwear, perhaps one-fifth of the country's officially tallied exports. "The effect on the economy will be very little," Mr. Khin Maung Kyi said. "The Burmese economy is run on an informal basis. What is counted in the national income is only 50 percent of what is going on there. That's the main reason the Burmese generals are very resistant, because they know they can ride on the informal economy."
On the other hand, he and other analysts said, sanctions are symbolically important. For one thing, they signal to potential investors that Myanmar is a risky bet.
For another, they send a message to the ruling generals and their people that they have not been forgotten in a world seemingly preoccupied by terrorism and the Middle East.
"People are saying the long-noses should come and help," said U Aung Zaw, editor of the Burmese exile magazine Irrawaddy, which is published in Thailand. "People feel very helpless. They feel very depressed. They are shocked at what has happened and they want somebody to come and help, to really help."
Given the limited effectiveness of sanctions, Mr. Aung Zaw said he was not sure what that real help could be.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A young Burmese woman stitches exercise jackets in a Taiwanese-owned garment factory in Hlaing Tharyar, Myanmar, for 50 cents a day. The United States Senate has voted to ban imports of goods made in Myanmar. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); APPAREL MFG (74%); POLITICS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); FOREIGN LENDING (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (73%) MYDANS, SETH; VALLEY, THOMAS J 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (53%) MYANMAR (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%) MYANMAR; CHINA; MALAYSIA

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



326 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Senate Votes to Permit Taking Inventory of Offshore Reserves 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12 

 BODY:
The Senate voted today to allow a federal inventory of offshore oil and gas reserves, a program that opponents said would undermine longstanding bans on new drilling along much of the nation's coastline.
 Considering a broad energy bill, senators voted, 54 to 44, to let the Interior Department use a variety of technologies to try to measure the amount of oil and gas beneath the outer continental shelf. 
 Supporters said that in light of fluctuating energy supplies and rising natural gas prices, it was prudent to determine what was available if the nation had to rely on domestic sources. They denied it was a precursor to drilling in areas now off limits. 
"I think every American would say, 'Tell us how much we own, and later on we will discuss whether it is worthwhile trying to use them or not,' " said Senator Pete V. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who is chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
But Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida and a chief organizer of opposition to the inventory, called the provision a "prelude to a direct attack" on existing restrictions.
He and other drilling opponents said the proposal would let the Interior Department use seismic and geological testing methods that could harm the environment and run counter to restrictions on activities that could lead to drilling.
Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, said, "When you realize the kind of work that's going to go on -- seismic surveys, sediment sampling, other harmful exploration technologies that harm marine life -- it is worth getting upset about."
The vote came after Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, warned that the prospect of persistent high natural gas prices could eventually pose economic problems. It represents a potential shift in the Senate, which has in recent years resisted new offshore drilling plans.
Senators from Florida, California and other coastal states where public opposition to offshore rigs has blocked new exploration for 20 years said the provision was a clear bid to weaken current drilling bans.
Offshore oil drilling has long pitted lawmakers from coastal states that rely on tourism against those from energy-producing areas like Texas and Louisiana who say their states should not be the only ones meeting the nation's energy needs.
Resistance to offshore exploration is a position traditionally shared by many Republicans and Democrats in Florida and California and has figured into election campaigns in those states. In 1990, President George Bush instituted a moratorium on new coastal drilling and President Bill Clinton extended it through 2012. 
But the oil and gas industries and their allies in Congress say the drilling bans first imposed annually by Congress in the early 1980's have made the United States more reliant on oil imports. They say that offshore drilling for gas in particular poses less environmental threat than does delivery of fuel by supertankers.
The provision is included in a larger energy bill taking shape in the Senate. That measure will have to be reconciled with the bill already passed by the House, which eliminated a similar provision. But the negotiations will be under the control of Mr. Domenici and Representative Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana, the chairman of the House energy panel and a strong proponent of more offshore drilling, so some form of it could be in a final bill.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, opposed a bill that allows the government to take inventory of its projected offshore oil fields. (Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (87%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); IMPORT TRADE (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GAS (FUEL) 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (52%) GRAHAM, BOB (SEN); HULSE, CARL 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



327 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: 'Some Crazy Guy' 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Last year I tried to illustrate just how far to the right America's ruling party has moved by quoting some of Representative Tom DeLay's past remarks. I got some puzzling responses. "Who cares what some crazy guy in Congress says?" wrote one liberal economist, chiding me for being alarmist.
 Some crazy guy? Public images are funny things. Newt Gingrich became a famous symbol of Republican radicalism. By contrast, most people know little about Mr. DeLay, the House majority leader. Yet Mr. DeLay is more radical -- and more powerful -- than Mr. Gingrich ever was. 
 Maybe Mr. DeLay's public profile will be raised by his success yesterday in sabotaging tax credits for 12 million children. Those tax credits would cost only $3.5 billion. But Mr. DeLay has embedded the credits in an $82 billion tax cut package. That is, he wants to extort $22 in tax cuts (in the face of record budget deficits) for every dollar given to poor children.
But the really important stories about Mr. DeLay, a central figure in the impeachment of Bill Clinton, involve his continuing drive to give his party a permanent lock on power. 
Consider the case of Westar Energy, whose chief executive was indicted for fraud. The subsequent investigation turned up e-mail in which executives described being solicited by Republican politicians for donations to groups linked to Mr. DeLay, in return for a legislative "seat at the table." The provision Westar wanted was duly inserted into an energy bill. (Republican leaders deny that there was any quid pro quo.)
There's every reason to believe that the Westar case is unusual only in the fact that the transaction came to light. Under Mr. DeLay's leadership, Republicans have established a huge fund-raising advantage, based not just on promises -- special interests have always been able to buy favorable policies, but never so brazenly -- but also on threats. Mr. DeLay pioneered the "K Street strategy," which -- in a radical break with tradition -- punishes lobbying firms that try to maintain good relations with both parties. 
Then there's the Texas redistricting story.
Normally states redraw Congressional districts once a decade: Texas redistricted after the 2000 census. But under Mr. DeLay's leadership, Texas Republicans are trying to increase their advantage in seats with a second redistricting. This in itself is an unprecedented power grab.
But it gets worse. Texas Democrats responded with a parliamentary maneuver, walking out to deprive the state Legislature of a quorum. In response, hundreds of state law enforcement officers were diverted from crime-fighting to search for the missing Democrats -- assisted, yes, by the Department of Homeland Security. 
A telling anecdote: When an employee tried to stop Mr. DeLay from smoking a cigar on government property, the majority leader shouted, "I am the federal government." Not quite, not yet, but he's getting there.
So what will Mr. DeLay and his associates do with their lock on power, once it is firmly established? They will push through a radical right-wing agenda. For example, expect to see much less environmental protection: Mr. DeLay has described the Environmental Protection Agency as "the Gestapo."
Above all, expect to see the wall between church and state come tumbling down. Mr. DeLay has said that he went into politics to promote a "biblical worldview," and that he pursued President Clinton because he didn't share that view. Where would this worldview be put into effect? How about the schools: after the Columbine school shootings, Mr. DeLay called a press conference in which he attributed the tragedy to the fact that students are taught the theory of evolution.
There's no point in getting mad at Mr. DeLay and his clique: they are what they are. I do, however, get angry at moderates, liberals and traditional conservatives who avert their eyes, pretending that current disputes are just politics as usual. They aren't -- what we're looking at here is a radical power play, which if it succeeds will transform our country. Yet it's considered uncool to point that out.
Many of those who minimize the threat the radical right now poses to America as we know it would hate to live in the country Mr. DeLay wants to create. Yet by playing down the seriousness of the challenge, they help bring his vision closer to reality. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LOBBYING (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TAX RELIEF (74%); EXTORTION (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); INDICTMENTS (70%); CHILDREN (69%); FUNDRAISING (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); CENSUS (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (61%); SMOKING (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS) 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (72%); BILL CLINTON (57%); PAUL KRUGMAN (56%) DELAY, TOM (REP); KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



328 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Students Roil Iranian Capital in 3rd Night of Protests 

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Friday, June 13 

 BODY:
A third night of student protests outside Tehran University's dormitories exploded into the surrounding middle-class neighborhoods early today, with large gangs of students fighting running street battles against vigilantes armed with sticks and chains. At one major intersection demonstrators hurled bricks at trucks of riot policemen who were rushing to lift barricades and douse fires protesters had ignited in the streets.
 The protesters chanted "Death to Khamenei," a slogan that can bring a jail term in this country, where Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme religious leader, goes unquestioned. 
 "I've been lashed, jailed for having a satellite dish," said a student, underscoring the simmering social frustrations behind the riots. "It's time to stand up for what we want." 
In a nationally televised speech on Thursday, Ayatollah Khamenei accused the United States of trying to foment disorder here and warned protesters that the government would be merciless against those acting in the interests of foreign powers.
Referring to the United States, he said, "If it sees that disgruntled people and adventurers want to cause trouble, and if it can turn them into mercenaries, it will not hesitate in giving them its support."
The protests are erupting as a nervous government is trying to forge a policy toward the United States in the face of renewed pressure from Washington. The fact that they are being fueled by calls to pour into the streets from opposition-run Persian-language television stations in the United States adds to the unease. 
"Leaders do not have the right to have any pity whatsoever for the mercenaries of the enemy," Ayatollah Khamenei said, addressing a crowd in the southern city of Varamin. 
The public ignored the admonishment, staging in the largest street demonstrations to erupt in this capital in four years. Joining the students were some older government workers and even women dressed in the sweeping black cloaks favored in poorer neighborhoods. 
Given the difficulty of moving about the city, beset by traffic jams and violent clashes, it was impossible to get an accurate count. But with the demonstrations stretched at least three miles from the dormitories where the first quiet protests began on Tuesday, the demonstrators appeared to be in the thousands. It was a far wider protest than on two previous nights and one the government is likely to use force to prevent from erupting again. 
Control of key intersections switched back and forth between protesters and the often black-clad vigilantes, paramilitary thugs believed to be linked to the government who swarmed into the intersections on motorbikes. 
Often they would ditch their vehicles and attack private homes, smashing lights and exposed windows and screaming at cowering residents to stay indoors. Sometimes the students would get their revenge. At one point, they separated a sole vigilante, wrestled him off his bike, pummeled him and then set his bike afire.
Witnesses reported similar scenes of beatings up and down a major road leading to the dormitories. Civilians limped away after being beaten, although one woman extracted an apology from an assailant by screaming: "Hitting a woman! Aren't you ashamed?"
People from heavily Westernized northern Tehran tried to drive downtown to the scene of the riots, creating enormous traffic jams. Sometimes middle-class families ducked to the floors of their cars as stones from the battles banged on their roofs. 
Demonstrators tore down road signs and heavy green metal fences in the median strip, tossing them into the street as barriers, and ignited huge piles of trash. They chanted rythmically while banging on aluminum highway barriers, drowning out all other sounds. 
"We want more freedom," said one 34-year-old government worker, who gave his name as Mahmoud. "For 25 years we have lived without any freedom. We want social freedom, economic freedom and political freedom," Nevertheless, he said he doubted the demonstrations would bring down the government because they were random and lacked organization. 
The current protests started quietly on Tuesday and erupted into clashes, with some injuries reported, on Wednesday, which the government said led to 80 arrests. 
The riots are aggravating a particularly nervous moment in Iran's long record of tension with Washington. 
The fall of the governments of Iraq and Afghanistan, although both despised by Tehran, created a certain sense of vulnerability here. The United States now has troops stationed along Iran's east and west flanks, and the Bush administration last year lumped Iran with Iraq and North Korea as part of the "axis of evil."
In the last few weeks, senior American officials have called for a change in government in Iran, accusing it of trying to destabilize Iraq, undermining the Middle East peace effort, developing nuclear weapons in secret and sheltering Al Qaeda fugitives. Senior American officials have denied any plans for military action.
The Iranian government rejects the accusations, and recently leavened its opposition to Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations by saying it would accept whatever the Palestinians themselves accepted.
The sudden appearance of thousands of protesters evidently contributed to a case of jitters among some circles in Iran's jigsaw puzzle of a government.
Persian-language broadcasts beamed into Iran, mostly from Los Angeles, worked to swell the protests by urging people to take to the streets. Although satellite dishes are illegal, the channels are widely seen in the middle-class neighborhoods that cut across the northern parts of the city. 
The stations' reports for the first two nights on the numbers and the extent of the demonstrations, however, proved wildly exaggerated, depicting a new revolution unfolding that could bring down the government.
In his speech, Ayatollah Khamenei called on the vigilantes to stay away from the protests. But he warned that continued demonstrations might lead to a replay of July 1999, when vigilantes set upon students protesting the repeated closure of reformist newspapers, leaving one student dead and several more in prison.
On Thursday, members of the reformist movement in Parliament and around President Mohammed Khatami played down the seriousness of the demonstrations, saying they reflected the country's attempt to engender broader democracy.
But some protesters even chanted about President Khatami, calling on him to resign because his reform movement had failed.
The reformists have tried to keep the confrontation off the streets, believing that time is on their side and that violence just plays into the hands of the extremists. They voice the same concern about United States support for such demonstrations.
"We do not want to see blood on the streets," Abdollah Ramezanzadeh, Mr. Khatami's spokesman, said. "We don't believe in street protests." 
Many students familiar with events in Iraq are quick to voice support for American intervention here, although they are widely skeptical of the motives of the Bush administration.
"Of course it would be better if Iranians could liberate their country themselves," said Muhammad, 21, an engineering student. "But we have reached the point where we need a foreign force."
Others are appalled by such attitudes, warning that Iranians' generally positive attitude toward the United States would evaporate the moment the first Iranian was killed.
The first day of protests was unexpectedly set off by a government proposal to consider privatizing the universities. A few cellphone calls by protesters to a Los Angeles television station prompted the station to call on all Iranians to pour into the streets. Hundreds got into their cars and went down to see the demonstration, joining the students in their chants.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As policemen stood guard, students protested at Tehran University early yesterday. The students chanted slogans against Muslim clerics. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); RIOTS (91%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); POLITICS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); GANGS (58%); RELIGION (55%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRANIAN-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: TEHRAN UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (90%) MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; KHAMENEI, ALI (AYATOLLAH) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN (95%) IRAN; TEHRAN (IRAN)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



329 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: In Poll, Pessimism From New Yorkers Rubs Off on Mayor 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and MARJORIE CONNELLY 

 BODY:
Dispirited by job losses, tax increases and service cuts, New Yorkers say they are increasingly pessimistic about their city, according to the latest New York Times poll.
 Those negative feelings appear to have colored New Yorkers' views of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Only 24 percent of those polled said they approved of the job he was doing, the lowest approval rating for a mayor since The Times began taking polls on mayoral performance in 1978. It is a drop of seven percentage points since January. 
 By almost every measure, city residents have a gloomy view of the economy, the quality of life in the city and New York's prospects. Asked to rate the condition of the city's economy, 73 percent said it was bad, and 62 percent said that its condition had taken a personal toll on their lives. 
Sixty percent said that they thought life in the city had gotten worse in the last year, compared with 43 percent in a January poll.
The findings represent a sharp turnabout over the last two years in how New Yorkers view their city and their own lives within its boundaries. For example, less than a month after the World Trade Center attack in 2001, 54 percent thought that the city would be a better place to live in 10 to 15 years. A month before the attack, New Yorkers gave the city some of its highest marks in 25 years. 
Among those polled over the last week, only 30 percent said they believed that New York City would be a better place to live in 10 to 15 years.
"They're raising subway fares, they're raising rents, the jobs are decreasing," said Belinda Butler of Manhattan, who was laid off from her job as an office manager six months ago. Ms. Butler, 25, said in an interview after the poll was taken, "I do see that the number of jobs available is shrinking, and I see the same positions at lower rates, but it costs more to live in the city, and that doesn't really help."
The citywide telephone poll was conducted among 962 adults last Friday through Tuesday. The margin of sampling error for the entire group is plus or minus three percentage points.
Those polled appeared to link their opinions of the mayor to their own financial problems. For example, among the 59 percent of respondents who said that it is harder to make ends meet than a year ago, 74 percent disapproved of Mr. Bloomberg's performance. Among the 59 percent who said the proposed budget cuts would hurt them personally, 74 percent also disapproved of the job Mr. Bloomberg was doing.
Follow-up interviews with people surveyed indicated that respondents seemed turned off by the measures Mr. Bloomberg has taken to balance the city's budget and by his personal style, which tends to be nonconfrontational, low-key and generally enigmatic. His reputation as an outsider -- by birth or by his income bracket -- appeared to persist.
"He's not a New Yorker, and he's not a fighter," said Stephanie Wilson, 50, who lives in the Bronx. "You have to be crazy to run this town because we're a bunch of crazy people," Ms. Wilson said. "You've got to kick down doors. Rudy's crazy, and he was effective. Bloomberg doesn't have the gusto to really deal with issues in an aggressive manner." 
New Yorkers seem to take displeasure in every move taken by the mayor and the State Legislature to face down billions of dollars in red ink; 70 percent of those polled disapprove of the way the mayor handled a roughly $4 billion budget gap.
For instance, those polled were asked about their priorities for city services. The largest group, 30 percent, said they would protect firehouses, some of which have been closed because of budget cuts. In second place were classroom aides in public schools, and a police antidrug program came in third. Only 9 percent said their top priority would be to put off reductions in garbage pickups, and only 7 percent called for preserving library hours. Yet those two services were the ones the mayor restored to the budget last week.
Service cuts were unpopular, and few tax increases drew cheers. Fifty-nine percent of those polled said that a New York state tax increase on people in high income brackets was reasonable, but only 34 percent thought the city's recent sales tax increase was reasonable. And only 20 percent approved of the city's 18.5 percent increase in the property tax. 
While 22 percent said raising taxes was their preferred method of balancing the budget, 46 percent said the city should borrow its way out of its troubles.
The mayor's press secretary, Edward Skyler, said the mayor was making tough choices on taxes and spending. "Leadership is about doing what is right, not what is easy or popular," he said. "Under his leadership, crime keeps coming down, the schools are being fixed, housing is being built, jobs are returning and the city is staying a place where people want to live and work."
Clearly, many New Yorkers believe that much of the fate of the city's economy is in the hands of the mayor, even though outside forces like Wall Street and the state and federal governments play a major role. Fifty-three percent of those polled said they believed that the city economy was something that the mayor could "do a lot about." 
City residents gave Gov. George E. Pataki a 42 percent approval rating, a far cry from the 82 percent approval rating he received in the city a month after the trade center attack, but far from his lowest rate ever, 26 percent in April 1995. Although the governor did not get high marks for his role in the city's budget, it is clear that more people blame the mayor. 
"I feel like the state government has less to do with my life than the city government," said Takemasa Kurita, 27, a graduate student from Astoria, Queens, who was upset about cutbacks in the city's recycling program and potential cuts in the public schools. "The things that Bloomberg is proposing are different from what Giuliani was proposing, and Pataki was in office then as well, so I think these new changes are Bloomberg changes."
Although Mr. Bloomberg has made some attempts to forge close relations with minority New Yorkers, this poll did not show that his efforts were paying off. For instance, his approval rating among whites is 31 percent, but only 15 percent among black respondents and 19 percent among Hispanic residents.
Blacks cared more than whites about the city's unemployment rate, and that group reported a far higher rate of joblessness than whites did.
But even though Mr. Bloomberg can hardly be pleased with his standing in the polls in the last six months, even Democrats concede that it is too early to write him off as a one-term mayor. For example, President Ronald Reagan's lowest approval number -- 35 percent -- was in January 1983 during poor economic times, yet in 1984, he won a second term by a landslide.
Further, the bench of potential Democratic challengers to Mr. Bloomberg appears less than intimidating at this point, with few fresh faces and no one with a comparable financial war chest. However, Mr. Bloomberg's contention that people dislike him because of the economy he inherited and not for other more personal or undefinable reasons would be tested if the city's financial shape improves.
But just like the mayor, most people -- 55 percent -- said they planned to stay in New York in the coming years. This is slightly more than in January, when people were less gloomy about the economy.
"I've lived here all my life," said Kendrick Stovall, 39, a truck driver from Brooklyn. "I've been to England, out of the country, I've been places, and even though you think that New York is so sickening, and dirty, and disgusting, there's no other place that you'd want to live."

How the Poll Was Conducted
The New York Times Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted last Friday through Tuesday with 962 adults in all parts of New York City. Interviews were conducted in either English or Spanish. 
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of city exchanges. The exchanges were chosen so as to ensure that each area in the city was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take into account household size and the number of telephone lines into the residence, and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to borough, race, sex, age, education and Hispanic origin.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adult New Yorkers.
The potential sampling error is larger for smaller subgroups.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording and order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat varying results.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Retaining school aides like the one above was deemed second in importance among city services. Thirty percent of respondents said protecting firehouses, like the one below in Brooklyn, was their top priority. (Librado Romero/The New York Times); Mr. Bloomberg currently has the lowest rating since The Times began mayoral polls in 1978. (Willie J. Allen Jr./The New York Times); Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has preserved the current level of garbage collections and library hours, but in a poll, few New Yorkers gave a high priority to avoiding cutbacks in those services. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times); (James Estrin/The New York Times); (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B8) Chart: "New Yorkers' Views of . . ." The CityTen or fifteen years from now, will New York City be a better place to live than it is now, a worse place or the same? Graph tracks what percent of New Yorkers feel the City is a better place to live, or a worse place, or the same since 2001. Note: Same and No opinion responses are not shown. The MayorDo you approve or disapprove of the way Michael R. Bloomberg is handling his job as mayor? Graph tracks percent of New Yorkers who approve of the Mayor and those who disapprove since 2002. Note: No opinion responses are not shown. The EconomyThe city's economy is: June 03GOOD: 24%BAD: 73 Jan. 03GOOD: 30BAD: 66 June 02GOOD: 50BAD: 46 June 03Compared with a year ago, life in New York City is: BETTER: 12SAME: 27WORSE: 60 Jan. 03 BETTER: 16SAME: 39WORSE: 43 June 03Compared with a year ago, making ends meet financially is: EASIER: 4SAME: 37HARDER: 59 June 03How concerned are you that a household member will be unemployed in the next year? VERY: 47SOMEWHAT: 23NOT AT ALL: 17NOT VERY: 11 June 03Has the condition of the city's economy affected your daily life? YES: 62NO: 33 Based on citywide telephone surveys conducted by The New York Times and CBS News. Most recent survey was conducted by The New York Times June 6-10 with 962 adults. (pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); POLITICS (74%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES POLL; MAYORS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; CONNELLY, MARJORIE; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



330 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: THE MIDEAST TURMOIL: DIPLOMACY; 
Envoys Hopefully Hit Road On Behalf of Imperiled Map

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, mobilizing to keep its peace initiative in the Middle East from unraveling, made plans today for Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and other envoys to travel to the region to seek mutual concessions from Israel and the Palestinians.
 Mr. Powell also spoke on the telephone this afternoon to both Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel and to Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian prime minister, to urge that efforts be made to get peace talks back on track after a wave of attacks and retaliations. 
 The secretary's schedule calls for him to attend an economic conference in Jordan next week, but allows sufficient time to go to Israel for more meetings with Israelis and Palestinians if the situation warrants. 
While in Jordan, Mr. Powell also plans to meet with senior envoys from the European Union, the United Nations, the United States and Russia -- the quartet -- to spur efforts on the peace plan the four countries devised last year known as the road map.
"Without sounding too alarmist, the whole road map initiative is imperiled right now," said a diplomat familiar with the secretary's plans. "There's a need for some very high-level intervention to get things back on track."
Announcement of Mr. Powell's plans came as the new envoy to the Middle East, John S. Wolf, was scheduled to leave for Israel on Friday as part of a team to monitor progress on implementing the road map.
Administration officials say his main job is not to implement the long-term plan -- it calls for reciprocal steps over three years to create a Palestinian state -- but to try to get Israel and the Palestinians to take small, immediate steps to ease tensions.
Israel is being asked to release prisoners and dismantle some Jewish settlements in the West Bank and Gaza built since early 2001. Mr. Sharon has said Israel would take such steps, but American officials say Israel's efforts have lagged on settlements since the latest spasm of violence, which began last weekend.
Following the bus bomb attack that killed 16 and injured nearly 100 in Jerusalem on Wednesday, Mr. Sharon is said to have less latitude politically on settlements and prisoners. Nevertheless, American officials say that the only hope for Israel to have security in the long term is to shore up Mr. Abbas with such steps.
Israel officials were described today as taken aback by the harshness of Mr. Bush's criticism on Tuesday of the assassination attempt of a top Hamas leader. In his statement, Mr. Bush took issue with Israel's contention that the step would enhance Israeli security. On the contrary, the president said, it would not help reach that goal.
Mr. Wolf, the special envoy, will lead a team of American experts and monitors who will be there to both pressure and oversee Israeli and Palestinian steps. The team is initially to be about 15 Americans.
There is some talk among experts that any long-term peace settlement between Israel and the Palestinians will involve a much more extensive monitoring force of Americans, or perhaps Americans in combination with Europeans and others.
But administration officials say that, while they have talked of such a role in the future, it is much too early to start making such plans given the volatile nature of the situation.
Martin Indyk, a former Middle East negotiator under President Bill Clinton, has advocated putting the West Bank and Gaza under an international trusteeship, with American or other troops establishing security, while a Palestinian state is allowed to take root.
"The basic problem is a lack of Palestinian capacity to deal with terrorists," said Mr. Indyk, who is now director of Middle East affairs at the Saban Center at the Brookings Institution. "As long as they don't have the capacity, they won't be able to break this cycle of violence."
The idea has won support in other quarters. "The ideal solution would be some sort of United Nations presence or NATO presence," said Salam al-Marayati, executive director of the Muslim Public Affairs Council in the United States.
But administration officials say that no such thinking has evolved as yet among those around Mr. Bush. Instead, the president is trying to decide his own level of involvement, and what sort of criticisms of both sides would be more helpful than damaging.
After the president's initial criticism of Israel earlier in the week, White House and State Department officials focused today on appealing for restraint on all sides, while avoiding specific condemnations of Israeli actions. White House and State Department spokesmen declined to even repeat Mr. Bush's earlier statements about Israel.
Overall, the administration was caught in a familiar dilemma by the upheaval in the region. On one hand, Israelis and Arabs say that only an almost constant presence in the region by high-level Americans can keep tensions from boiling over.
Since the end of the Iraq war, an array of officials -- Elliott Abrams and Stephen Hadley from the White House and Mr. Powell and two deputies from the State Department -- have been in the region. Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, is said to be considering a trip soon.
On the other hand, the administration is reluctant to assume a high profile in superintending peace negotiations because of the possibility of failure and because President Bush does not want to get sucked into the process himself.
To prepare for Mr. Powell's visit, a Middle East expert at the State Department, David F. Satterfield, will be meeting in Paris on Friday with other envoys from Europe, Russia and the United Nations.
There was frustration in the Bush administration that the Arab leaders had not followed through with their pledges to get a peaceful settlement, made last week at Sharm el Sheik, by cutting off support for Palestinian militant groups responsible for acts of violence against Israelis.
"It's not just that they have to stop private funding to Hamas," said an administration official. "They have to set the right tone for all of Arab society. They need to establish conditions so that some disgruntled 17-year-old Palestinian wants to go to work for a new Palestinian state and not blow himself up in a bus bomb."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ariel Sharon met his cabinet on a day of attacks and retaliations. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); HAMAS (77%); TERRORISM (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); BOMBINGS (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); ASSASSINATION (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (78%) WEISMAN, STEVEN R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); ABBAS, MAHMOUD (PRIME MIN); SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); WOLF, JOHN (ASST SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); JORDAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



331 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: POSTWAR POLITICS; 
As Alliances Take Shape, Iraq Balances New Unity On a Fragile Foundation

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 12 

 BODY:
In 1919, when the British adventurer Gertrude Bell pondered the threat of disintegration in Iraq from the ethnic and religious strife that prevailed as its boundaries were drawn, she saw the inchoate state slipping toward the abyss.
 "It's like a nightmare in which you foresee all the horrible things which are going to happen and can't stretch out your hand to prevent them," she told a friend. 
 In 2003, many experts warned that the toppling of Saddam Hussein would unleash the same forces of disintegration. The traditionally influential Sunni Muslims would be pitted against the majority Shiites, the Kurdish chieftains of the north against Turkmen. Without the steely control of Mr. Hussein over the diverse plain of Mesopotamia, without a strongman from the warrior class of the Sunni Muslim tribes of central Iraq, the country would fly apart and self-interested neighbors -- Iran, Turkey, Syria -- would even go to war over the spoils. 
So far, there is no sign of national disintegration under the new occupation by 140,000 mostly American and British troops.
"We are for democratic elections, we are with the democratic spirit," a leading tribal sheik, Majid Hatem al-Sayhoud, said this week. Despite anti-American and antidemocratic sermons by some Shiite clerics, and attacks on American soldiers apparently carried out by Hussein loyalists, this sentiment is being repeated by the ayatollahs in the holy Shiite cities of Najaf and Karbala, by the Sunni elites of Baghdad and by the Kurdish overlords of the mountainous north.
In a devastated land that has seen three wars over the last two decades, a strong sense of Iraqi national identity -- and unity -- is emerging in the politics of post-Hussein Iraqi society, interviews here in the last month suggest.
In the weeks that have followed the end of major hostilities here, the Kurdish leader Massoud Barzani has made a pilgrimage to the Shiite bastion of Najaf -- his first such since 1967 -- to declare a political alliance with leading ayatollahs. The leader of the Shiite Dawa Party, Ibrahim Jafari, and Adnan Pachachi, a leading Iraqi diplomat of the 1960's, traveled to the Kurdish stronghold of Erbil this week to affirm common principles of democracy and pluralism in the formation of a new Iraq.
The disparate forces of Iraqi opposition exiles who worked to overthrow Mr. Hussein over the last decade have functioned as a unified board of directors for more than a year, speaking to the Bush administration with one voice.
For many Iraqis, it is still a fragile foundation, one that merely papers over forces of disintegration similar to those that tore apart the old Yugoslavia as Communism collapsed.
"We may need the Americans and British here forever," said Muhammad Lilu, 59. "If they leave us, there will be fighting."
A retired air force brigadier and fighter pilot, Mr. Lilu dropped bombs on his Kurdish compatriots during their rebellion in the early 1970's. With the new allied domination, he said, such wounds will have to be healed.
"We want the Americans and British to stay and supervise this new authority," Mr. Lilu added. "We could build a government, form a parliament, but the American and British should stay and show them." 
Some experts think it may be naive to assume that Kurdish chiefs can move beyond the warlord traditions of the north, that Shiite clerics can subordinate medieval conventions of Islamic law to Western concepts of civil society or that the Sunni tribes can accept a system in which all Iraqis are equal before the law. 
But Iraqi political figures are not just speaking the language of democratic transformation. They are also applying steady pressure on Washington and London to speed up the process of democratization. 
They are meeting some resistance from the occupation administrator, L. Paul Bremer III, largely because he and his British advisers think that it will take months, perhaps a year or more, before the Iraqis can adapt to representative government.
"When historians look back 50 years from now," a senior American official here said recently, this initial period of political transition "will not be the thing that people focus on." It may seem hugely important now, he said, but the real test will be the constitutional process that sets the agenda for the first free elections here and puts in place the first democratic government.
Not everyone agrees, and no one in the occupation authority can say when elections will take place.
"For a lot of people, in the hierarchy of their needs, they are not focused on the democratic process," the official insisted. "They want stability," he said, meaning security and a functioning economy. "You can't eat the constitution."
The occupation powers are loath to move too quickly -- in part, they concede -- because the price of failure could be catastrophic for the Iraqis and for the fortunes of the Bush administration and the government of Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain.
New newspapers are appearing every week, but the media remains largely undeveloped for national politics. "There is still no national framework for political parties," a British official said, except the discredited Baath Party of Mr. Hussein, whose leaders are still being hunted. "The climate is not suitable at the moment for a free and open democratic process."
On the campus of Baghdad University, a young Shiite student is worried about delay.
"Iraq's new political process needs to work quickly because Iraqi society has been living for a long time behind high walls," said Mazen al-Yasseri, 20, as other students celebrated the first post-Hussein graduation. "If people begin to dwell on their political suffering when they are trying to build a new country," he said, Iraq could lapse into the grievance politics of the past -- which in turn could propel another tyrant to power to hold Iraq together.
The democratic instinct is strong now, Mr. Yasseri said, but poorly understood. "The people want something, but they cannot appreciate the price they will have to pay for it," he said.
In order for Iraq to stay united and become democratic, the Shiite religious leaders will have to make concessions to secular government, the secular Sunnis and Shiites will have to make concessions to Iraq's Muslim character, the Kurds will have to give up their private armies, their smuggling networks and their internecine warlord struggles for dominion over resources.
Still, long before anyone casts a ballot here, Iraqis are crossing political lines.
At the Democratic Student Movement office on Baghdad's largest campus, Abdul Amir Kazzim, 35, a Shiite who said he was suspended from university three times under Mr. Hussein, said he would consider voting for Mr. Pachachi, a Sunni, to lead Iraq. "He gives the impression of independence and he is really working to help Iraq," Mr. Kazzim said.
Another student who did not give his name said he would support a Kurdish chieftain because the Kurdish parties had the longest record of opposing Mr. Hussein.
Mr. Yasseri said he thought that if elections were held today, the Shiites, who make up about 60 percent of Iraq's 23 million people, might elect a religious leader, like Ayatollah Muhammad Bakr al-Hakim, as president. But Mr. Yasseri said he would support a secular Shiite leader like Iyad Alawi of the Iraqi National Accord, one of the exile groups that has returned to Iraq. 
Some Iraqis wonder whether the United States and Britain, having made the the largest investment in regime change and nation building since World War II, will really be able to let go, or whether they will be more like a British official described by Margaret Macmillan in her book "Paris 1919," who said: "What we want is some administration with Arab institutions which we can safely leave while pulling the strings ourselves."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Kurdish leader Massoud Barzani seeks an alliance with Shiites. (Patrick E. Tyler/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); POLITICS (90%); RELIGION (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); AIR FORCES (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%) KURDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%) TYLER, PATRICK E; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); SYRIA (79%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003 



332 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: Favoring Cubans 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Cuba Pop Star Defects to U.S. by Walking Across Border" (news article, June 11): 
 Carlos Manuel's candor is refreshing. He makes it clear that he decided to immigrate to the United States in part because of the expected economic and professional benefits. 
His story highlights the injustice of American immigration policy, since people trying to emigrate from any other country would not receive the same treatment.

CHARLES W. GOSSETT
Pomona, Calif., June 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REFUGEES (88%); CELEBRITIES (88%); POP & ROCK (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) MUSIC; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

PERSON: GOSSETT, CHARLES W; MANUEL, CARLOS 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CUBA

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



333 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTIONS; 
Islam and the Unveiled Photograph

BYLINE:  By Edward Rothstein 

 BODY:
A Florida judge ruled last week that a Muslim woman could not pose for a driver's license photograph in a veil, with only her eyes peering out. The state, the judge wrote, had a "compelling interest" in identifying its drivers; she rejected the arguments, supported by Muslim organizations, that the decision threatened "religious liberty." 
 But what still puzzled Khaled Abou El Fadl, a professor of Islamic law at the University of California at Los Angeles School of Law who had been a witness for the government, was why it had been so difficult to get any other Muslims to admit that the government had a plausible case. 
 Although the evidence wasn't permitted in court, the woman, Sultaana Freeman, was convicted of aggravated battery in Illinois, The Chicago Tribune reported, in the beating of her twin 3-year-old foster children. According to police reports, child welfare workers said she invoked religious modesty to hinder investigators from looking under the children's Muslim garb, where one daughter had a broken arm, and both were covered with bruises. The mother's mug shot was taken without a veil. At any rate, even religious pilgrims to Mecca have to have uncovered faces in their passport photographs. 
So why, Mr. Fadl asked, was this case given such widespread support in the Muslim communities? And why was his cross-examination so "bizarre," he wondered, as it had focused solely on whether he was sufficiently orthodox in his own religious beliefs. What the American Muislim culture seemed to be demanding, as he described it, was absolute loyalty to an extreme position. 
Mr. Fadl has become a liberal dissident in the American Muslim world. In the April/May issue of Boston Review (bostonreview.net) his argument for a common ground between Islam and Western democracy spurred 10 responses by other scholars. A similar symposium based on his work can be found in "The Place of Tolerance in Islam" (Beacon Press, 2002). 
At a recent conference in Washington on American Islam that was sponsored by the Ethics and Public Policy Center, Mr. Fadl argued that there had been "obfuscation" in public statements by American Muslims, who he said had not made a serious commitment to American democracy. He also complained about "a consistent exclusion of voices" representing moderate Islam by Muslim organizations. 
So the case in Florida, for him, displayed not a contest between state interest and religious freedom but the absence of contest in the American Muslim world. That was also one of the recurring themes of the Washington conference, which was organized by Hillel Fradkin, the president of the center, and Peter Berger, the director of the Institute for the Study of Economic Culture at Boston University.
Many participants agreed that the relationship between American Islam and American democratic society was troubled because of what one Muslim scholar called "the failure of the liberal modernist tradition in Islam" and its "normative hostility" toward the West.
In one paper Qamar-ul Huda of Boston College described such a diverse range of background and belief in American Islamic communities that he wondered if it were possible to generalize at all. But that only made the uniformity described by other speakers more disturbing. The Sufi scholar Sheik Hisham Muhammad Kabbani objected to what he called a monopoly control over Islamic textbooks, the effects of Saudi money and the stifling of dissent. 
But how are things to change? Abdou Filali-Ansary, who directs an institute for the study of Muslim civilizations at Aga Khan University in London, said he believed that American Muslim intellectuals should realize that in their encounter with the United States they were "for the first time in a different position." 
Last month at another conference in Washington, the Center for the Study of Islam and Democracy (islam-democracy.org), presented another symposium, "Why Democracy and Why Now?" at which speakers attempted to map out liberal political views consistent with Islamic belief. Abdulaziz Sachedina, a professor of religious studies at the University of Virginia, said in his keynote address: "There has not been any other time in the history of the Muslim peoples when they were required to evaluate their political heritage critically in the context of modern political developments." 
Radwan A. Masmoudi, an M.I.T.-trained engineer who founded the Center for the Study of Islam and Democracy, has argued that new organizations are needed. "How do you reform from within?" he said at the ethics center conference. "It takes a lot of patience."
Many of these problems were anticipated by Fazlur Rahman, who taught Islamic thought at the University of Chicago and was invoked by many speakers. In his book "Islam and Modernity" (University of Chicago Press), written 25 years ago, Rahman, who died in 1988, explored the tensions in Islam between the heritage of the immutable text and the challenges posed by ever-changing experience. He saw interpretations of religious law as an evolving series of dialogues with the religious text, and he urged that Islamic education be reshaped to become a dynamic enterprise. 
This ideal is actually not all that different from the ideal that evolved in varieties of Christianity or Judaism in their encounters with America. Religious authority is transformed by democratic pressure; absolutism is tempered; horizons shift. Neither the religion nor the nation remain unchanged. Along the way, there is much anxiety over loyalty and much fear of dissolution, but ultimately a new confidence develops.
But many speakers seemed to fear that American Islam is still locked in a mode of fundamentalist opposition. Sohail Hashmi, a professor in international relations at Mount Holyoke College, evenworried that Islamic elementary education in the United States no longer resembles his own Islamic education, which aimed to create Muslims who were "well-rounded Americans." 
"I grew up thinking that one of the greatest Muslims who ever lived," he wryly recalled, "was Ibrahim Lincoln." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Seeking to be allowed to wear a veil for a driver's license photograph, Sultaana Freeman cited her Muslim beliefs in a Florida court. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); JUDGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (85%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); DRIVERS LICENSES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); ETHICS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); TESTIMONY (75%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (74%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); FOSTER CARE (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); BONE FRACTURES (68%); CHILD WELFARE (68%) ISLAM 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD; FADL, KHALED ABOU EL (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



334 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: The Boys Who Cried Wolfowitz 

BYLINE:  By BILL KELLER; E-mail: billkeller@nytimes.com

 BODY:
We're now up to Day 87 of the largely fruitless hunt for Iraq's unconventional weapons. Allegations keep piling up that the Bush administration tried to scam the world into war by exaggerating evidence of the Iraqi threat. One critic has pronounced it "arguably the worst scandal in American political history." So you might reasonably ask a supporter of the war, How do you feel about that war now?
 Thanks for asking. 
 One easy answer is that between the excavation of mass graves, which confirms that we have rid the world of a horror, and President Bush's new willingness to engage the thankless tangle of Middle East diplomacy, which raises the hope that Iraq was more than a hit-and-run exercise, the war seems to have changed some important things for the better. This is true, but not quite enough. 
Another easy answer is that it's not over yet. Just as we have yet to prove that we can transform a military conquest into a real Mission Accomplished, we have yet to complete our search of a country that, as Californians must be very tired of hearing, is the size of California. This is also true, but likewise inadequate.
I supported the war, with misgivings about the haste, the America-knows-best attitude and our ability to win the peace. The deciding factor for me was not the monstrosity of the regime (routing tyrants is a noble cause, but where do you stop?), nor the opportunity to detoxify the Middle East (another noble cause, but dubious justification for a war when hardly anyone else in the world supports you). No, I supported it mainly because of the convergence of a real threat and a real opportunity.
The threat was a dictator with a proven, insatiable desire for dreadful weapons that would eventually have made him, or perhaps one of his sadistic sons, a god in the region. The fact that he gave aid and at least occasional sanctuary to practitioners of terror added to his menace. And at the end his brazen defiance made us seem weak and vulnerable, an impression we can ill afford. The opportunity was a moment of awareness and political will created by Sept. 11, combined with the legal sanction reaffirmed by U.N. Resolution 1441. The important thing to me was never that Saddam Hussein's threat was "imminent" -- although Sept. 11 taught us that is not such an easy thing to know -- but that the opportunity to do something about him was finite. In a year or two, we would be distracted and Iraq would be back in the nuke-building business.
Even if you throw out all the tainted evidence, there was still what prosecutors call probable cause to believe that Saddam was harboring frightful weapons, and was bent on acquiring the most frightful weapons of all. The Clinton administration believed so. Two generations of U.N. inspectors believed so. It was not a Bush administration fabrication that Iraq had, and failed to account for, massive quantities of anthrax and VX nerve gas and other biological and chemical weapons. Saddam was under an international obligation to say where the poisons went, but did not.
What the Bush administration did was gild the lily -- disseminating information that ranged from selective to preposterous. The president himself gave credence to the claim that Iraq was trying to buy uranium in Africa, a story that (as Seymour Hersh's investigations leave little doubt) was based on transparently fraudulent information. Colin Powell in his February performance at the U.N. insisted that those famous aluminum tubes Iraq bought were intended for bomb-making, although the technical experts at the Department of Energy had made an awfully strong case that the tubes were for conventional rocket launchers. And as James Risen disclosed in The Times this week, two top Qaeda planners in custody told American interrogators -- one of them well before the war was set in motion -- that Osama bin Laden had rejected the idea of working with Saddam. That inconclusive but potent evidence was kept quiet in the administration's zeal to establish a meaningful Iraqi connection to the fanatical war on America.
The motives for the dissembling varied. The hawks hyped the case (profusely) to prove we were justified in going to war, with or without allies. Mr. Powell hyped it (modestly) in the hope that the war, which he knew the president had already decided to wage, would not be a divisive, unilateral exercise. The president either believed what he wanted to believe or was given a stacked deck of information, and it's a close call which of those possibilities is scarier.
Those who say flimflam intelligence drove us to war, though, have got things backward. It seems much more likely that the decision to make war drove the intelligence.
The origins of this may be well intentioned. Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz, the most dogged proponent of war against Iraq, is also a longtime skeptic of American institutional intelligence-gathering. He has argued over the years, from within the government and from outside, that the C.I.A. and its sister agencies often fail to place adequate emphasis on what they don't know, and that they "mirror-image" -- make assumptions about what foreign regimes will do based on what we would do.
One tempting solution has been to deputize smart thinkers from outside the intelligence fraternity -- a Team B -- to second-guess the analysis of the A Team professionals. Mr. Wolfowitz was part of a famous 1976 Team B that attacked the C.I.A. for underestimating the Soviet threat. These days the top leadership of the Defense Department is Team B. Mr. Wolfowitz and his associates have assembled their own trusted analysts to help them challenge the established intelligence consensus.
Who would argue that the spooks' work should not stand up to rigorous cross-examination? But in practice, B-Teaming is often less a form of intellectual discipline than of ideological martial arts.
Here's how it might have worked in the Bush administration:
The A Team (actually, given the number of spy agencies that pool intelligence on major problems, it's more like the A-through-M team) prepares its analysis of, let's say, the Iraqi nuclear program. The report is cautious, equivocal and -- particularly since U.N. inspectors left Iraq in 1998 -- based on close calls about defector reports, commercial transactions and other flimsy evidence.
The B Team comes in with fresh eyes, and fresh assumptions. One assumption, another Wolfowitz mantra, is that more weight should be given to the character of the regime -- in Saddam's case, his transcendent evil and megalomania. While the C.I.A. may say that we have insufficient evidence to conclude that Saddam has reconstituted his nuclear program, Team B starts from the premise that it is just the kind of thing Saddam would do, and it is dangerous to assume he didn't.
Then Team B dips into the raw intelligence and fishes out information that supports its case, tidbits that the A Team may have rejected as unreliable. The Pentagon takes this ammo to an interagency review, where it is used to beat the A Team (the C.I.A. and the Defense Intelligence Agency) into submission. Maybe the agencies put up a fight, but (1) much of their own evidence is too soft to defend with great conviction, and (2) by this time the president has announced his version of the facts, and the political tide is all running in one direction.
When Team B seems to have the blessing of the boss, it goes from being a source of useful dissent to being an implement of intimidation. As formidable a figure as Mr. Powell, who resisted pressure to include the most arrant nonsense in his U.N. briefing, still ended up arguing a case he told confidants he did not entirely believe, specifically on the questions of Iraq's nuclear program and connections with Al Qaeda.
By the time a Team B version of events has been debunked, it has already served its purpose. That 1976 Team B, by assuming the most dire of Soviet intentions and overlooking the slow collapse of the Soviet economy, came up with estimates of Soviet military strength that we later learned to be ridiculously inflated. But the cold warriors who ran it succeeded in setting back detente and helped to elect Ronald Reagan. The 2003 Team B seems to have convinced most Americans that Saddam had nuclear arms and was in bed with Osama bin Laden.
But the consequences of crying wolf -- and the belief is widespread among the dispirited spies of the A Team that the administration did exactly that -- are grave. Honest, careful intelligence is our single most important weapon in the global effort against terrorism. It is also critical to winning the support of allies against nuclear proliferation, most urgently in North Korea and Iran. Already rather compelling evidence of Iran's development of nuclear weaponry is being dismissed as just more smoke from the Bush propaganda machine.
So far, the passion to investigate the integrity of American intelligence-gathering belongs mostly to the doves, whose motives are subject to suspicion and who, in any case, do not set the agenda. The pro-war Democrats are dying to change the subject to the economy. The Republicans are in no mood to second-guess a victory. Just when we really need some of that Team B spirit, the hawks have chickened out.
The truth is that the information-gathering machine designed to guide our leaders in matters of war and peace shows signs of being corrupted. To my mind, this is a worrisome problem, but not because it invalidates the war we won. It is a problem because it weakens us for the wars we still face.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Barry Blitt) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); PROBABLE CAUSE (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); TERRORISM (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) KELLER, BILL; WOLFOWITZ, PAUL D (DEPUTY SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) IRAQ#000T040106SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



335 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Hong Kong Says Trade Deal Won't Break W.T.O. Rules

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 13 

 BODY:
A senior Hong Kong official said today that a nearly completed free trade agreement between Hong Kong and mainland China would comply with World Trade Organization rules. But he refused to rule out the possibility that some provisions might have the effect of helping locally owned companies more than the subsidiaries of multinationals.
 The United States and other Western governments, together with foreign chambers of commerce here, have strongly urged Hong Kong and China to avoid any deals that would end Hong Kong's tradition of treating all businesses equally. Hong Kong has long enforced the same laws for any business incorporated here regardless of whether it is a local company or the subsidiary of a larger company with headquarters and owners elsewhere. 
 China, by contrast, has extensive regulations distinguishing between companies that are domestically owned and those that are partly or entirely financed from abroad. The so-called foreign-funded enterprises qualify for lower tax rates, but many are also required to export some or all of their production instead of being allowed to compete in the domestic market.
Henry Tang, Hong Kong's secretary of commerce, industry and technology, said today that the agreement, the Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement, would follow W.T.O. rules, which discourage any commercial discrimination based on nationality. The W.T.O. rules are not too specific, however, and have not prevented China from retaining its separate sets of regulations, although Beijing officials said last year that they would be reviewed.
"We have always treated everyone fairly, and therefore this agreement has to be W.T.O.-consistent," Mr. Tang said today at a news conference for foreign correspondents. But, he added, "It will involve areas where there will be more conditions to it than just Hong Kong incorporation."
The more companies that qualify for the benefits of the agreement, however, the harder it will be for China to offer deep trade concessions without opening a huge back door for multinationals to enter its markets. Before joining the W.T.O. in November 2001, China agreed to open many industries to varying degrees of foreign competition by the end of 2006.
With Hong Kong's powerful financial services sector dominated by foreign institutions, writing a broad agreement that encompasses all businesses is likely to mean that China will give none of them much extra access. Mr. Tang partly acknowledged this point, saying that while he thought the reduction or elimination of many Chinese tariffs and other rules would help in many industries, he wanted "to be able to manage the expectations."
Mr. Tang strongly hinted that the agreement would provide greater benefits to companies already doing business in China. Many Hong Kong companies have long experience on the mainland, but multinationals, a few of which have been here a century or more, have been expanding there, too.
"If people have one foot in the door already, they stand to benefit very fast," Mr. Tang said.
China already sets rules in the logistics industry, for example, that allow companies to enter the market only if they have years of experience, and similar rules could be applied to the trade deal, said Eden Woon, the chief executive of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce.
Trade experts here said that they tended to believe that Hong Kong would generally comply with the spirit as well as the letter of W.T.O. standards. "The signals we've received, while not specific, have indicated Hong Kong negotiators will be very sensitive to the importance of preserving a level playing field," said David Dodwell, a public policy consultant who is working with the American and British Chambers of Commerce here on the issue.
The deal will be finished and announced at the end of the month, although a formal signing will come later, Mr. Tang said. That timetable will allow Hong Kong and Chinese officials to promote the deal on July 1, the sixth anniversary of Britain's handover of Hong Kong to China.
Hong Kong retains a separate legal and political system and separate trade regulations as a special administrative region of China.
July 1 is also the day when the political opposition here plans to hold one of the territory's largest demonstrations ever, to protest the government's plan to push stringent internal security laws through the Legislative Council in early July.
When China entered the W.T.O. in 2001, the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, which has many locally owned companies among its members, called for Beijing to offer separate, deeper trade concessions to Hong Kong to help the territory out of the economic stagnation that accompanied the bursting of a property speculation bubble here in the late 1990's. Foreign chambers of commerce have argued for smaller concessions that would be applied more broadly, to all companies doing any form of business here.
The agreement is still likely to reduce sharply or eliminate the tariffs that China charges on goods made in Hong Kong. It is also expected to open the Chinese market for services that interest small businesses based here but that multinationals do not have the staff or cost structures to provide, like providing legal and accounting services for small businesses on the mainland.
The trade talks went slowly until recent months, when outbreaks of severe acute respiratory syndrome here and in China had the paradoxical effect of accelerating the negotiations by making it harder to make the time-consuming trip between Hong Kong and Beijing, Mr. Tang said. "We have learned a new toy; it's called videoconferencing," he said. "Both sides meet a lot more often."
At a news conference this morning in Guangzhou, 80 miles up the Pearl River from Hong Kong in Guangdong Province, a provincial official said that the agreement would help China and Hong Kong work together on new and high-technology industries and on marketing and finance.
In a sign of persistent worries about SARS, however, the microphones at the conference were wrapped in disposable white gauze tied with yellow and pink ribbons -- one of many precautions still being taken here and on the mainland.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry Tang, Hong Kong's secretary of commerce, industry and technology. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); TRENDS (69%); DISCRIMINATION (65%); RETAILERS (59%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; CHINA; HONG KONG 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) HONG KONG (98%); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



336 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Shares Drop Sharply on Decline in Consumer Sentiment

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks slid yesterday despite increasing hopes for a cut in the interest rate after a University of Michigan report indicated a sharp drop in consumer sentiment.
 Still, the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500-stock index managed to post a third consecutive week of gains. 
 "The consumer report, coming out on a Friday after a nice rally, gave a good reason to take profits," said Barry Berman, the head trader for Robert W. Baird & Company in Milwaukee. "The market is just pulling back a little bit." 
Michigan's widely watched index of consumer sentiment fell to 87.2 in mid-June from a reading of 92.1 in May, the Dow Jones Newswires reported.
The reading was far below the level of 93 that market watchers had been expecting.
The Dow closed down 79.43 points, or 0.9 percent, at 9,117.12, after a three-day advance of 216.55 points.
Broader market indicators also finished lower. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 27.13 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,626.49. The S.& P. fell 9.90 points, or 1 percent, to 988.61.
For the week, the three main gauges were mixed, with the Dow up 0.6 percent, the Nasdaq slipping 0.1 percent, and the S.& P. up 0.1 percent.
Investors took the Michigan report as a reason to reduce some of their stockholdings after a three-day rally. But market watchers said it was too early to conclude that the mood had soured.
Stocks have been heading higher since March on increasing hopes that the economy will turn around in the second half of the year. But with several economic indicators coming in mixed, Mr. Berman said investors were not quite ready to fully believe in a recovery.
"The economic data hasn't been real strong," Mr. Berman said. "You've got something out there that you're betting on that hasn't materialized yet, and at some point you're going to see it or not."
On the plus side, expectations have been growing that the Federal Reserve will cut short-term interest rates at its June 24 and 25 meeting.
Those hopes were further bolstered yesterday by a report from the Labor Department that wholesale prices fell 0.3 percent in May after a record drop of 1.9 percent the previous month.
The reports suggest the economy could be hit by deflation, a damaging trend where prices for goods and services decline overall, and investors hope the Fed will cut rates at its next meeting to combat the trend of lower prices.
"I wouldn't say today's declines are the start of a major pullback," said Keith Keenan, vice president for institutional trading at Wall Street Access, a New York-based brokerage firm. "There's still a significant amount of performance anxiety."
"The psychology is incredibly bullish," he said, referring to Wall Street's three months of rallies. "Most money managers who are underperforming in this market are buying. That's why the market has been so resilient in the face of bad news."
Guidant fell 61 cents, to $39.95, in heavy trading after a subsidiary of the company, a maker of medical devices, pleaded guilty to 10 felonies, including shipping misbranded products and lying to government regulators.
Oracle rose late Thursday after the maker of business software reported that earnings were stronger than expected. Oracle closed up 15 cents at $13.48 after several analysts upgraded the company's shares.
Oracle also said it planned presentations to investors to explain its proposedacquisition of PeopleSoft. The board of PeopleSoft formally rejected Oracle's $16-a-share offer on Thursday. PeopleSoft declined 45 cents, to $16.92.
Honeywell lost 5 cents, to $27.86, even though the company reported $1.3 billion of new orders for jet parts and services.
Treasury prices rose yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note jumped 14/32, to a price of 104 11/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 3.11 percent from 3.16 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond climbed 25/32, to 119 21/32. The bond's yield decreased to 4.17 percent from 4.21 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); TRENDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: DOW JONES NEWSWIRES (84%); ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (77%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



337 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Maine Lawmakers Approve Plan For Universal Health Coverage 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: BOSTON, June 13 

 BODY:
The Maine Legislature today passed a comprehensive health insurance plan that will make low-cost coverage available to all state residents by 2009.
 The legislation will create a semiprivate agency that provides private coverage to the state's 180,000 uninsured residents, businesses and municipalities with fewer than 50 employees and the self-employed. Employers would pay up to 60 percent of an employee's premium. 
 The voluntary program looks to insure 31,000 residents by 2004 and the remainder by 2009.
"Our motto is you can't have a healthy economy if you can't have healthy people," Gov. John Baldacci, who crafted the plan, said in an interview today. He will sign the legislation into law at a ceremony next week.
About a dozen state legislatures are mulling universal health care bills, according to Richard Cauchi, a manager for the National Conference of State Legislature's health care program. Experts say the Maine legislation could serve as a model nationwide.
"It's a very important statement that the state is saying we believe as a matter of public policy that every person in Maine should have health insurance," said Arthur Levin, the director of the Center for Medical Consumers, a New York-based nonprofit consumer advocacy organization. "It's a statement no other state has been willing to make."
Premiums will be based on a sliding scale according to income, family size and a person's chosen plan. Individuals with annual incomes below $27,000 and families of four that make less than $55,000 a year will be eligible for reduced premiums. The plan places a one-year voluntary cost cap on insurers, hospitals and providers and limits outpatient procedures. A watchdog group willmonitor hospital costs and services.
The plan is to be financed in a number of ways, including by federal tax relief money the first year and then with money recovered that does not have to be paid for the uninsured to receive emergency medical care.
The bill passed the House on a vote of 105 to 38, and the Senate by 25 to 8. State Senator Richard Nass, who was among the dissenters, said that financing was spotty after the first year and that the plan would drive up the cost of premiums for those who already have health insurance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HOSPITALS (88%); INSURANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); FAMILY (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); TAX LAW (69%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE; STATES (US); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) MAINE

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



338 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Wealth Gives Texas City A New Vitality 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: McALLEN, Tex. 

 BODY:
Unemployment in this small city on the southern tip of Texas hovers around 15 percent. Incomes are half the national average, and many people sell grapefruit and melons from the back of battered pickup trucks to make ends meet.
 So why is Joel Garcia's Jaguar dealership thriving? Sales at the gleaming store Mr. Garcia manages, which also sells Range Rovers and the occasional Maserati, have outstripped rivals in nearby cities like Austin and San Antonio since opening two years ago, allowing him to nearly triple his work force, to 30 from 11. 
 Much of the thirst for luxury here -- whether for Jaguar sedans, imported marble from Turkey or rambling Tudor-style homes in the gated communities on McAllen's north side -- reflects the economic might of another nearby city: Monterrey, the prosperous industrial powerhouse of more than three million people in northern Mexico. 
If McAllen is any indication, the rich in Mexico are doing fine, and Monterrey, home to a cadre of top companies and one of Mexico's highest per capita concentration of millionaires, is leaving an imprint on this once obscure point of entry into the United States. Monterrey residents -- called regiomontanos or regios (RAY-hee-ohs) -- a play on the city's name, which means "regal mountain" -- are injecting cash into McAllen's economy by opening businesses, going on shopping sprees and even buying vacation homes. 
"Who'd have known we'd get people calling us from their Learjets setting up an appointment to buy a car?" said Mr. Garcia, a West Texas native who moved here after working as a finance executive with the Ford Motor Company in Mexico City. "Coming to McAllen was one of those gambles that paid off."
The same vitality holds true for a variety of other businesses in McAllen, a city about nine miles from the Mexican border that is 90 percent Hispanic. High-end retailers and builders of luxury homes have also had soaring sales recently, even as other border towns struggle with stagnation brought on by the migration of manufacturing operations from northern Mexico to China, where costs are lower.
Such are the discreet charms of McAllen, a tidy city lined with palm trees and bougainvillea. It bears so little resemblance to dusty border crossings like El Paso or Laredo that people in Monterrey, two hours away on an ultramodern toll road, have created a Spanish verb, "mcallenear," literally "to do McAllen," describing their forays here.
"You get the ease of a manageable American city where almost everyone speaks Spanish," said Ruben de Leon, a Monterrey native who moved to McAllen several years ago as an owner of Regio Tile, a company that supplies Mexican tile and Turkish marble to customers here and to chains like Home Depot. "Essentially you're in Mexico and the United States at the same time."
McAllen's fortunes have always been tied to its location. Its founder, John McAllen, a 19th-century Irish immigrant, married into the Balli family, which held a Spanish land grant, forging a regional landholding empire. But recently, McAllen has become more dependent than ever on its southward ties, with many people from Monterrey extending their visits indefinitely, as Mr. de Leon has.
McAllen's Chamber of Commerce estimates that as many as 80 percent of new businesses are owned by Mexican citizens, a reversal of the proportions from about five years ago. This influx of Mexican money has transformed McAllen into a city that often confounds economists.
For example, per capita income in McAllen declined to 45.3 percent of the national average in 2001 from 47.6 percent in 1990. That would suggest the city became poorer even as investment flowed into McAllen and Reynosa, on the Mexican side of the border, after the the North American Free Trade Agreement took effect in 1994. 
Yet motor vehicle tax receipts have climbed more than 8 percent this year, and retail sales have risen 4 percent, according to the Chamber of Commerce. And as companies opened factories in Reynosa and installed supply and transportation operations in McAllen, the city's population expanded, rising to 106,000 in 2000 from 84,000 in 1990, according to the census bureau. Hidalgo County, which includes McAllen, Edinburg and Mission, swelled to 569,463 residents in 2000 from 383,000 a decade earlier.
"If you look at statistics like unemployment and wages, McAllen would seem to rank down there with the poorest parts of Mississippi or Tennessee," said Keith R. Phillips, an economist at the San Antonio branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. "But if you drive around McAllen and see it from the ground level, you realize it has a viable economy."
In part, McAllen's fast-evolving nature is a function of its ample labor supply, which is drawing a variety of service industries to the city. T-Mobile, the wireless carrier, opened a customer call center here in early June with 125 full-time employees, after similar moves by companies like Cingular Wireless and Black & Decker.
T-Mobile's call center is part of a 6,000-acre development called Sharyland, which also has row upon row of newly built homes, ranging in price from $75,000 to $1,000,000. The development was built on land that was onion and cabbage fields three years ago. Not far from Sharyland are the corporate offices of companies like Symbol Technologies, which assembles bar-code readers in Reynosa.
Almost half of the Sharyland homebuyers are Mexican citizens, many from Monterrey and some who pay entirely in cash, said Patrick D. Brewer, a McAllen-based executive who oversees the project for the Hunt Realty Corporation, based in Dallas. "There's no shortage of cash in Mexico," Mr. Brewer said.
McAllen city officials do not keep statistics on the number of homes owned by people from Monterrey, but the evidence of Mexican real estate investment here is widespread. Mike R. Perez, McAllen's city manager, said in an interview that one family on his cul-de-sac owned homes in Monterrey and McAllen and an apartment in Paris.
"It's a sophisticated level of person that we attract here," Mr. Perez said.
Gloria Trevi, the Mexican pop star caught up in a scandal involving accusations of child sexual abuse, used to have a home in McAllen. Mike Allen, a former priest who heads the McAllen Economic Development Corporation, said he has heard talk that a brother of Vicente Fox, Mexico's president, has a vacation home in McAllen.
"This hasn't been confirmed, but it's something we'd like to believe," Mr. Allen said. A spokesman for President Fox declined to comment.
Many wealthy Mexicans here like to keep a low profile, using McAllen to escape the rigors of big city life in Monterrey, much as they have for years vacationed in nearby South Padre Island, a resort town an hour away where many condominiums are owned by Monterrey's elite.
One woman who has a home in McAllen and whose husband owns a company here that recycles asphalt said she in many ways preferred the smaller American city to Monterrey, home to some of Mexico's biggest industrial conglomerates, like Cemex, the world's third-largest cement company. 
"We come here to spend our money and obey the law like good citizens," she said, refusing to give her name as she bought a watch at Deutsch & Deutsch, a jeweler in La Plaza Mall. "It's just so easy here."
Few doubt that part of the appeal of owning a home in McAllen involves diversifying holdings between currencies, although whispers persist that at least some of McAllen's allure is related to the desire to put assets beyond the reach of the Mexican tax authorities.
The money that Mexicans inject into McAllen's economy is real, however. About 30 percent of the city's sales tax receipts come from sales to Mexicans, according to Steve Ahlenius, president of the McAllen Chamber of Commerce, which maintains a satellite office in Monterrey. 
These receipts allow McAllen to maintain the third-lowest property tax rate among Texas cities with more than 50,000 residents. When retail sales were found to have grown less than 1 percent in March from the month before, a slowdown attributed to stiffer border security and sluggish economies on both sides of the border, McAllen decided to spend $80,000 on advertising in Monterrey, promoting itself as a destination, Mr. Perez, the city manager, said. Sales in April jumped 10 percent, according to a survey completed Thursday. 
Not everyone in McAllen is thrilled with the influx of wealthy regios. Some residents, for example, resent the tales of private jets from Monterrey landing at McCreery Aviation's airstrip, within walking distance of a Tony Roma's restaurant, a Sheraton Hotel and La Plaza Mall. 
"People say, 'Those Mexicans,' when they get behind a really terrible driver from down there," said Rosie Uresti, a junior high teacher. "They're a little aggressive for some of us."
The best indicator of whether McAllen will continue to absorb Mexican investment is probably the value of the peso, which remains at a historically strong level despite weakening somewhat in recent months. A weaker peso would make it more expensive for the regios to spend their money here. 
"Right now McAllen is a good place to come on vacation and relax," Jaime Gonzalez, a 30-year-old lawyer from Monterrey, said as he sat in a cafe in La Plaza Mall, reading El Norte, his city's main newspaper, while sipping a cappuccino in anticipation of a shopping spree. "Settling down in McAllen, well, that's for those with the means."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Though many of its residents are poor, McAllen, Tex., has benefited from an influx of money from Monterrey, Mexico. Joel Garcia, left, a car dealer in McAllen, has little trouble selling Jaguars and other luxury cars. Sales of luxury homes, above, have also been showing big gains. (Photographs by Brad Doherty for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Frank de los Santos, left, and Ruben de Leon run Regio Tile, which supplies Mexican tile and Turkish marble to a booming housing market in the McAllen, Tex., area and to chains like Home Depot. (Brad Doherty for The New York Times)(pg. C2) Chart: "Outlet to Mexico"McAllen, a small Texas city that borders Mexico, has been experiencing a retail sales boom, surpassing other border cities. Its charm and proximity to the industrial center of Monterrey are luring growing number of Mexican shoppers. McAllen draws a greater share of Mexican spending than any other city in the United States. Graph tracks index of retail sales (seasonally and inflation adjusted. 1990=100) from 1990-2002 for the following: McAllenEl PasoBrownsvilleLaredo Share of Mexican spending by destinationOne-year analysis of Mexican Visa cardholders for period ended this spring. McAllen: 10.3%Las Vegas: 4.9New York: 3.8 Miami: 2.9%Los Angeles: 1.6Dallas: 1.0 (Source: Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas; Visa International via McAllen Chamber of Commerce and Convention and Visitors Bureau)(pg. C2) Map of Texas highlighting McAllen: McAllen, Tex., has benefited from spending by wealthy residents of Monterrey, Mexico. (pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); LABOR FORCE (79%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); SEDANS (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); HOME CENTERS (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (69%) MEXICO; TEXAS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MCALLEN, TX, USA (98%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (79%); LAREDO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (97%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



339 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-5

Attacks Against Americans Continue North of Baghdad
American troops fanning out to reinforce allied control of Iraq came under attack in at least three places north of Baghdad where they had less of a presence during the war. Retaliating, they killed at least seven people, military officials said. A1

Iraq's two main Kurdish political parties, which have run separate governments in the region since its quasi-independence in 1991, agreed to merge in a bid to wield greater influence in Iraq's national politics. A7

Top Qaeda Suspect in Kenya
Fazul Abdullah Muhammad, suspected of leading Al Qaeda's operations in East Africa, was spotted in Mombasa, prompting an urgent terrorism alert in Kenya and frustrating investigators who have been searching for him for five years. A1

Radioactive Bomb Plot Foiled
The authorities in Thailand, acting on American intelligence, seized a large amount of radioactive material from a Thai man, breaking up a plot to sell it to terrorists, American law-enforcement officials said. A6

Israeli Strikes Continue
Israel pressed its campaign against Hamas militants with two more missile strikes in Gaza. The attacks came the day before American monitors were scheduled to arrive to prop up a new peace plan now badly weakened by nearly a week of violence. A3

Protests Continue in Iran
Violence continued in Tehran, where a student-led protest against university privatization has turned into a larger demonstration against the country's Islamic government, with calls for more social, economic and political freedom. A3

Belgian War Crimes Law
Belgian officials responding to comments by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said they had addressed American concerns about their war crimes legislation by allowing cases to be transferred to defendants' home countries. A5

NATIONAL A10-13

Issue of Iraqi Weapons Divides Democratic Party
Democratic Congresstional leaders and presidential candidates are struggling over how far to push President Bush about the failure to find biological or chemical weapons. A1

Compound Problems at NASA
Independent investigators say they have found problems with four other components that could threaten future missions as NASA tries to eliminate the dangers of falling foam insulation that apparently doomed the shuttle Columbia. A1

Universal Health Care in Maine
The Maine legislature passed a comprehensive health insurance plan that will make low-cost coverage available to all residents by 2009. A10

Medicare Advantages Argued
Members of Congress said that a bill to add prescription drug benefits to Medicare would give employers a powerful incentive to curtail the drug coverage that they now provide to retired workers. A12

Religion Journal A13

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Prairie Dog Spreads Pox
A state health official in Wisconsin warned that contact with one prairie dog has accounted for more than half of the 34 human cases of monkeypox in Wisconsin. A10

EDUCATION

Tuition Easement Sought
Several Democratic members of Congress called for the suspension of a bureaucratic adjustment that will increase college costs for millions of families. A11

Cyberschools on the Rise
In two years, the number of schools in which professors and pupils communicate online has doubled, to 67. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

State Racing Association Is Corrupt, Spitzer Says
The New York Racing Association is unaccountable, and the state should consider eliminating its stewardship of the Saratoga, Belmont and Aqueduct racetracks, said a report prepared by the office of Attorney General Eliot Spitzer. A1

Ex-Mayor Is Sentenced
Philip A. Giordano, 40, a three-term mayor of Waterbury, Conn., was sentenced to 37 years in federal prison for having oral sex with two young girls while in office. B6

Army Casanova Apologizes
The colonel whom scores of women accused of simultaneously promising to marry them apologized but said their reactions were too visceral. B1

SPORTS D1-7

2 Milestones for Clemens
Roger Clemens won his 300th game and recorded his 4,000th strikeout as the Yankees beat the St. Louis Cardinals, 5-2, in a constant rain. A1

Spurs Take 3-2 Lead
San Antonio beat the New Jersey Nets, 93-83, in Game 5 of the N.B.A. finals. D1

ARTS & IDEAS B7-16

Hall of Fame Inductions
Phil Collins, Little Richard, Van Morrison and Queen were inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame on Thursday night. B12

OBITUARIES A16

Sir Bernard Williams
The Oxford professor who is credited with reviving the field of moral philosophy and considered by some to be the greatest British philosopher of his era, he was 73. A16

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

I.B.M. Eschews Settlement
I.B.M. said that it had no intention of reaching a quick settlement with SCO Group in a legal fight that is causing concern among the many corporations that use the Linux operating system. C1

Disney Suit Causes Concern
Corporate directors are fearing for their own liability after a Delaware judge ruled that a shareholder suit against Disney and its directors regarding former president Michael Ovitz can proceed to trial. C1

Stewart Seen as Guilty
A recent telephone poll of New Yorkers found that 60 percent of those interviewed thought Martha Stewart was guilty of insider trading. C4

Ruling Against SpikeTV Name
A New York State appellate court denied a motion by MTV Networks, the owner of TNN, that would have allowed TNN to rebrand itself as SpikeTV. The movie director Spike Lee had objected to the name. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Freddie who?; a growing fury in Iran; searching for slime on Mars; last-minute excuses.

Column: Bill Keller.

Bridge B15
TV Listings B16
Crossword B15
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CRIMINAL LAW (87%); MEDICARE (86%); HEALTH INSURANCE (84%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DOGS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); WAR CRIMES (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); HAMAS (74%); AL-QAEDA (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); TUITION FEES (70%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (64%); RELIGION (64%); SCHOOL PRIVATIZATION (64%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (63%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (63%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (62%); SPACE SHUTTLE (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); HAMAS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) MAINE, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (93%); KENYA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAN (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); THAILAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



340 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: A Growing Fury in Iran 

 BODY:
Iran's unpopular and economically failing Islamic dictatorship now faces serious challenges from several directions. University students question its legitimacy in the streets. 
Reformist politicians seek wider powers for the elected Parliament. Washington, now a military force in the region with troops in neighboring Afghanistan and Iraq, demands an end to Tehran's nuclear weapons development and support for terrorism. 
 Predictably, the conservative clerics who exercise real power in Iran are trying to blame all their problems on a Satanic America. Even they must know better. What fuels unrest in Iran today isn't the machinations of Washington but the explosive discontent of the Iranian people, especially the young and the educated. After nearly 25 years of an Islamic dictatorship that has drastically limited personal freedoms and stunted economic growth, the Iranian people are eager for change. They are also frustrated with the timidity and limited accomplishments of the reformist leaders they have repeatedly backed with overwhelming electoral majorities. 
 This week, thousands of Tehran University students staged large protest marches, drawing support from the capital's middle-class neighborhoods. Standing up to this brutal regime takes courage. Past student demonstrations have been crushed and their leaders imprisoned. Early Saturday morning, Islamic vigilantes tried to halt the current protests by attacking students with wooden batons and rubber truncheons. Middle-class Iranians, for their part, engage in quieter and less risky forms of protest. Repression and anti-Americanism have helped sustain clerical rule for nearly a quarter century. Both now seem to be losing some of their potency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); RELIGION (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RIOTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); TERRORISM (71%) EDITORIALS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%) IRAN#000T040106SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



341 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: France:Electronics Job Cuts 

BYLINE:  By Ariane Bernard (NYT)

 BODY:
 The French electronics company Thomson lowered its profit forecast because of poor results at its television-making operations in the United States and said it would cut more than 1,200 jobs in Marion, Ind., and Circleville, Ohio. 
The company, which produces televisions for General Electric and RCA, said its solid performance in Asia and Europe could not offset its losses in the United States. Thomson said it expected operating profit to shrink to 140 million euros ($166 million), below its previous forecast of 200 million euros. Ariane Bernard (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks share prices of Thomson for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (85%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; ELECTRONICS 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: THOMSON CORP (TOC) 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%) SIC3421 CUTLERY; 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (91%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); ASIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



342 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
TENET HEALTHCARE WILLCUT 300 JOBS IN BILLING DIVISION

BYLINE:  AP

 BODY:
 The Tenet Healthcare Corporation will cut 300 jobs over the next three years as it streamlines its billing operations, the company said yesterday. 
Tenet said it would consolidate 56 business offices that handle billing and collection activities for its hospitals to 8 regional offices and one office to handle Medicare transactions. The company said it would also spend $275 million over the next three years to standardize its billing and collection technology and train employees. Tenet, based in Santa Barbara, Calif., said it expected to save $75 million annually from lower administrative and operating costs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); MEDICARE (84%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

COMPANY: TENET HEALTHCARE CORP (95%)

ORGANIZATION: TENET HEALTHCARE CORP (THC) 

TICKER: THC (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS623311 CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES (95%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (95%); NAICS621491 HMO MEDICAL CENTERS (95%) SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



343 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Sentiment Index Posts an Unexpected Drop 

BYLINE:  Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13 

 BODY:
An unexpected drop in consumer sentiment fueled fresh worries about the economy today as weaker wholesale prices reinforced expectations that the Federal Reserve would cut interest rates later this month. 
 The University of Michigan's closely watched gauge of consumer confidence slipped to 87.2 in mid-June from 92.1 in May. 
 Coming at a time when analysts thought rising stock prices would increase confidence, the decline surprised Wall Street. 
Analysts had pegged the consumer sentiment figure at 93.4, according to a Reuters poll. 
"There had been whispers that the number might be disappointing, but this is more than disappointing. We're back to Square 1," said Chris Rupkey, an economist at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York. 
The announcement of the decline in consumer confidence contributed to the drop in stock prices and the dollar today. 
The Labor Department reported that the Producer Price Index, which measures prices paid to farms, factories and refineries, fell 0.3 percent in May. Analysts had predicted the drop would be 0.2 percent. Excluding food and energy, the core Producer Price Index rose 0.1 percent. 
By itself, the decline in the overall index was not severe enough to fan fears about deflation or broad price declines. It was mild compared with the record drop of 1.9 percent in April. 
But in combination with signs of nervousness among consumers, any fall in prices could be of concern to the Federal Reserve, which has said it is monitoring the risk of deflation. 
To stop the deflation risk and bolster growth, the central bank is widely expected to cut interest rates at its next meeting on June 24 and 25. 
In another report, the Commerce Department said the United States trade deficit with the rest of the world shrank. The trade gap eased to $42.03 billion in April from $42.87 billion in March as both imports and exports decreased. 
The trade gap was still, however, the third highest on record. 
The confidence numbers included a worrying sign for spending, as the University of Michigan's gauge of consumers' outlook on the future of the economy slumped to 84.2 from 91.4 in May. 
Current views on the economy deteriorated slightly, with that component easing to 92.0 in June from 93.2 in May. 
Stan Shipley, an economist at Merrill Lynch in New York, said that while the economic data has not been overly encouraging, the combined effects of low interest rates and the tax cuts should stimulate growth. 
"There is a lag between the stimulus and its effects on the economy,' he said. 
Overnight interest rates now stand at 1961 lows and long-term rates have plunged to 45-year lows. That has spurred waves of home mortgage refinancing and put extra cash in the pockets of consumers.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Producer Prices"Index of finished goods prices, 1982=100. Seasonally adjusted. December 2001 through May 2003. Monthly ChangeMay: -0.3%April: -1.9March: +1.5 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); DEFLATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (86%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (70%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



344 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Call to Overthrow Chavez Cost Venezuelan a U.S. Visa 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, June 13 

 BODY:
A former Venezuelan general whose visa was revoked by theBush administration had been advocating the overthrow of President Hugo Chavez, American officials said today. The United States has publicly opposed the president's overthrow, urging that his fate be settled by democratic means.
 The visa of the former general, Enrique Medina, was rescinded by the State Department in May on the recommendation of the American Embassy in Venezuela, a State Department official said by phone from Washington. Mr. Medina, a former attache in the Venezuelan Embassy in Washington, led a group of dissident generals who have for months gathered in a Caracas neighborhood opposed to Mr. Chavez and loudly called for his ouster. 
 "A lot of people looked at what this guy was engaged in and it was clearly inconsistent with U.S. law and democratic principles," said an American official in Washington who is familiar with State Department policy on the matter. In rescinding Mr. Medina's visa, American authorities invoked regulations barring foreigners who endorse "terrorist activity."
Political experts on Venezuela said the decision, first reported in The Miami Herald on Wednesday, signaled that the United States rejected radical elements in Venezuela's opposition that favored an anything-goes approach to deposing Mr. Chavez. The opposition has so far led a failed coup in April 2002 and four national strikes, which have devastated the economy.
Although the Bush administration holds a dim view of the left-leaning president, the United States has publicly endorsed a referendum on Mr. Chavez's rule as the solution to the political tumult in the nation. Last month, the Organization of American States brokered an agreement that may lead to a referendum later in the year.
"The U.S is trying to say to folks that any talk, any harboring of notions that you could follow a nondemocratic solution to the crisis will not be condoned," said Miguel Diaz, who tracks American policy in Venezuela for the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies. "I think this is a way for the U.S. government to add its imprimatur to the referendum process." 
In the latest outbreak of violence, seven people were wounded today, four by gunfire, as an opposition march unfolded in a poor neighborhood of Caracas traditionally supportive of the president, Reuters reported.
The police and national guard troops clashed with angry supporters of the president who threatened to attack the opposition rally, firing tear gas to break up the protesters.
Mr. Medina has not been officially charged with taking part in the coup. But he is closely linked with officers who took over when Mr. Chavez was briefly overthrown, and he later became the ringleader of dissident military officers who camped out in Plaza Altamira, the public square that became the center of antigovernment activities.
While their positions resonate with many Venezuelans, the American Embassy and some leading opposition figures have distanced themselves from the generals.
Mr. Medina could not be reached for comment today. But in an article in a Venezuelan newspaper this week, he accused the American government of allowing itself to be manipulated by the Chavez government. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); COUPS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); REFERENDUMS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); TERRORISM (67%) VISAS; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFERENDUMS; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%) FORERO, JUAN; MEDINA, ENRIQUE; CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (59%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (79%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



345 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Student Protests in Tehran Become Nightly Fights for Freedom 

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Saturday, June 14 

 BODY:
A large swath of central Tehran turned into a combat zone overnight with running battles between demonstrators denouncing Iran's Islamic government and vigilantes and riot police officers determined to drive them off the streets. 
 What started as a small student march against the issue of university privatization on Tuesday has snowballed into violent nightly protests by demonstrators from across the social spectrum demanding more social, economic and political freedom. 
 The protests on Friday night were the largest and most violent to date, erupting on the campus of Shaheed Beheshti University in northern Tehran and clogging the two major highways leading to the dormitories of Tehran University. 
"This is civil disobedience," said a 45-year-old man beside his car on Chamron Highway, where demonstrators ignited tires and even trees along the road. "We are standing up against them. We are resisting and protesting against the regime." 
The riot police and other troops were deployed all day around Tehran University to prevent crowds gathering, while the city's police chief, Ali Talai, told students his men were there to prevent "infiltrators" from reaching the campus, reported Iran's Student News Agency.
The agency said, however, that vigilantes and riot police officers attacked four dormitories early today, breaking doors and windows and severely beating at least one male. It also reported the arrests of five female students. 
The Baseej, a shadowy paramilitary group, sometimes also known as Ansar Hezbollah, appeared around the city in groups of 150 to 200, some on motorbikes and some in pickups. They are believed to be under the control of the country's supreme clerical leader, Ayatollah Ali Khameini, who warned a day earlier that the government would respond harshly to student protests. 
The vigilantes beat demonstrators with wooden batons and rubber truncheons, sometimes hauling them out of their cars to do it. They raced along sidewalks on their motorbikes, striking even women and demanding that everyone return home.
Some guarded major intersections carrying Kalashnikov rifles, and one eyewitness said he had seen a demonstrator shot in the foot or lower leg. Another said he had seen a demonstrator slashed across the face with a razor blade. The number of those injured or arrested could not be immediately determined. 
Officially, Iran all but ignored the events. Former President Hashemi Rafsanjani, who led Friday Prayers, concentrated on what he called the failure of United States efforts in Afghanistan, Iraq and in negotiating peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
In recent months, relations with the United States have soured, and the government is worried about Washington's intentions. The demonstrators were repeatedly accused of acting at the behest of the Americans.
In his few remarks on the riots, Mr. Rafsanjani said people should not pay attention to satellite television -- watched illegally by most middle-classIranians. Persian-language opposition television stations operating from California, portraying the demonstrations as a reversal of the 1979 Islamic revolution, have been calling on Iranians to pour into the streets. 
"I advise them to be careful not to fall in the well that the Americans have dug," Mr. Rafsanjani said of the demonstrators at Friday Prayers. "Be careful not to be trapped by the evil television networks that Americans have established."
Iran's own state-run television news mentioned bloodshed in the West Bank and Gaza and demonstrations by Iraqis against the United States' occupation, but nothing about the violence in their capital. 
By 3 a.m., many of the streets around Tehran University were filled with broken glass and fragments of bricks and flower pots the demonstrators and vigilantes had hurled at one another. 
The vigilantes in their trucks and on motorcycles staged victory laps around the campus, drumming on their trucks with their truncheons. 
Oddly, the night had begun almost in a carnival atmosphere. As the sun set and a full moon rose, many families jumped in their cars to go look at the gathering riot police and students just beginning to chant anti-government slogans. 
As the first bonfires were lit and the traffic started to snarl, one driver yelled at a man who climbed out of his car and tried to direct traffic around a bonfire. 
"Just be patient, we are trying to have a revolution," the man answered. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (90%); RIOTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (73%); HEZBOLLAH (73%); SCHOOL PRIVATIZATION (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (67%); ARMED FORCES (67%); EYEWITNESSES (61%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%) ISLAM; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (54%) TEHRAN UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (58%) MACFARQUHAR, NEIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) IRAN; TEHRAN (IRAN)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



346 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Hong Kong Says Trade Pact Will Meet W.T.O. Rules
A senior Hong Kong official said that a nearly completed free trade agreement between Hong Kong and mainland China would comply with World Trade Organization rules. But he refused to rule out the possibility that some provisions might have the effect of helping locally owned companies more than the subsidiaries of multinationals.
 The United States and other Western governments urged Hong Kong and China to avoid deals that would end Hong Kong's tradition of treating all businesses equally. Page C3. 

Poll Asks About Martha Stewart
A majority of New Yorkers polled by the Siena Research Institute believe Martha Stewart is guilty and should be punished. Ms. Stewart, the founder of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, was indicted June 4 on charges of conspiracy, making false statements, obstruction of justice and securities fraud. She has pleaded not guilty. C4.

PeopleSoft Sues Oracle Over Offer
PeopleSoft filed a lawsuit against Oracle, which made a $5.1 billion hostile bid for PeopleSoft. The suit contends Oracle is interfering with PeopleSoft's contracts with customers and engaging in unfair trade practices. C14.

TNN Name to Stay, at Least for Now
MTV Networks plans to rename TNN as SpikeTV, which included a $30 million advertising campaign, were halted after the film director Spike Lee won a suit to stop the move. MTV officials plan to fight the action. C4.

Microsoft to End Explorer for Mac
Microsoft said that it would no longer develop versions of its popular Internet Explorer Web-browsing software for Apple Computer's Macintosh system. C3.

Consumer Confidence Declines
The University of Michigan's gauge of consumer confidence slipped in mid-June, signaling an unexpected drop in consumer sentiment. In another report, the Labor Department reported the Producer Price Index fell 0.3 percent in May. C14.

Biotech Treaty Set to Take Effect
A new world treaty that imposes restrictions on exports of genetically modified seeds, animals and crops is set to take effect, injecting a new element into already heated international disputes over agricultural biotechnology. C3.

Dow and S.&P. 500 Decline
Stocks declined, but the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average were up for the third consecutive week. The S.& P. fell 9.90 points, to 988.61. It was up 0.1 percent for the week, and has climbed 12.4 percent this year. The Dow closed down 79.43 points, at 9,117.12, while the Nasdaq composite index dropped 27.13 points, to 1,626.49. C4.

SK Official Is Sentenced in Korea
Chey Tae Won, the chairman of the SK Corporation, South Korea's biggest oil refiner and the flagship of the SK Group empire, was sentenced to three years in prison. C3.

Moody's Cuts G.M. Debt Rating
Moody's Investors Service lowered the long-term debt rating of General Motors because of increasing competition in North America and large pension liabilities. C4.

Stakes in Mexican Company Sold
Verizon and Vodafone have agreed to sell their stakes in the Mexican wireless company Grupo Iusacell. C3.

Swiss Economy to Remain Stagnant
The chairman of the Swiss central bank, Jean-Pierre Roth, said Switzerland's economy, now in recession, would not improve until investor confidence returns. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,117.12 down 79.43Nasdaq composite -- 1,626.49 down 27.1310-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.11% down 0.05The euro -- $1.1859 up 0.0094The dollar -- 117.49 yen down 0.04 Graph tracks the Standard & Poor's 500 weekly closes from June 2002 through yesterday. Yesterday: 988.61 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (86%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (85%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); BUSINESS TORTS (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (75%); CROP RESEARCH (74%); INDICTMENTS (74%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); CONSPIRACY (74%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (73%); PRODUCER PRICES (73%); EXPORT CONTROLS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); AGRICULTURE (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (67%); FILM DIRECTORS (65%); INTERNET BROWSERS (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); SENTENCING (62%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (51%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); SK HOLDINGS CO LTD (80%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (56%); MTV NETWORKS INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); 003600 (KSE) (80%); MSO (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (80%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (80%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (80%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003 



347 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 3074 words

HEADLINE: A Mighty Wind 

BYLINE:  By Elinor Burkett; Elinor Burkett is the author of the coming book, "So Many Enemies, So Little Time: An American Woman in All the Wrong Places."

 BODY:
The buzz on Cape Cod is grim as summer approaches. There is little talk about beach permits or Kennedy sightings and much talk about dead birds littering beaches, jellyfish clogging waterways and tourism collapsing. Even Walter Cronkite, America's eminence grise, has issued a dire warning from his second home on Martha's Vineyard. "I'm very concerned about a private developer's plan to build an industrial energy complex across 24 square miles of publicly owned land," Cronkite intoned in a radio and television ad recently broadcast across the Cape. 
 The industrial energy complex in question is a wind farm. And the publicly owned land is really water -- Nantucket Sound, which separates the Cape from Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket. That is where a Boston-based company called Cape Wind Associates hopes to build America's first offshore wind farm. At a cost in excess of $700 million, Cape Wind plans to spread 130 windmills, spaced a third to a half of a mile apart, across a shoal less than seven miles off the coast of Hyannis. Embedded in the ocean floor, each turbine would tower higher than the top of the Statue of Liberty's torch, its three 161-foot blades churning at 16 revolutions per minute. The wind forest promises to provide Cape Codders, on average, with 75 percent of their electricity, 1.8 percent of the total electrical needs of New England, without emitting a single microgram of greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide or mercury and without burning a single barrel of Middle Eastern oil. 
 The nation's leading environmental groups can barely control their enthusiasm. "We're bullish on wind," says Kert Davies, research director of Greenpeace USA. "Everybody has to ante up in the fight."
But like residents of dozens of communities where other wind-farm projects have been proposed, many Cape Codders have put aside their larger environmental sensitivities and are demanding that their home be exempt from such projects. As Cronkite puts it, "Our national treasures should be off limits to industrialization."
Wind is the world's fastest-growing energy resource, and after a decade of federal and state subsidies kick-starting the industry, creating enough power for more than a million American families in 27 states to tap into the breeze when they flick on their light switches. The country's oldest turbines have been part of the landscape on the Altamont Pass, east of San Francisco, for two decades. And Texans zooming along I-10 west to El Paso top a slight rise to the sight of a vast field of turbines stretching across the mesa. But energy providers in the Northeast, with its lack of wide open spaces, have long been consigned to dependence on oil, coal and natural gas, with only the occasional small-scale wind project. 
Then Jim Gordon got restless. The president of Cape Wind, Gordon is a quixotic sort of energy executive. At the age of 22, he put aside his dream of becoming Francis Ford Coppola and instead started a small company that designed and installed heat-recovery systems for hospitals and factories. Ten years later, after a change in regulatory law opened a niche for independent power producers, he pioneered the building of natural-gas-generated electric plants in New England, a region long captive to highly polluting coal and oil.
Gordon eventually developed seven power plants throughout New England and became a very wealthy man. But with too much "creative juice," as he puts it, to rest on what he had already done, he went looking for the next challenge. Wind became his fixation.
"Imagine tapping into this inexhaustible supply of energy right here in our own state, lowering the cost of electricity, decreasing pollution, reducing reliance on foreign fuel," Gordon said recently as he paced his company's boardroom in downtown Boston. "We're feeding oil cartels whose whims move our economy and our armies. With wind, we can free ourselves from that."
In 1999, Gordon sold off his power plants. With a Department of Energy wind map in hand, he and his team began searching for a place to build dozens of technologically advanced turbines that would plug directly into the region's energy grid. If he had been building in the West, Gordon would have looked to the plains, what those in the wind industry call "the Saudi Arabia of wind." It being New England, he naturally looked to the mountains. But while the ridges of northern Maine offered plenty of gusts, he says, the transmission lines out of such underpopulated areas were already clogged. His eyes then fell on the sea. 
Europeans had been constructing offshore wind farms for more than a decade. Just two miles outside of Copenhagen harbor, 20 turbines provide enough electricity for 32,000 homes. The British are developing more than a dozen wind projects in the Irish and North Seas. And a wind farm south of Dublin is expected to produce 10 percent of Ireland's electricity, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 13 million tons per year. 
"The Europeans are years ahead of us because they have had a consistent national policy to support wind power," Gordon said. Undaunted by the federal government's ambivalence toward alternative energy, Gordon sent his engineers out to find the perfect locale for a water-based wind farm. What they needed were fairly shallow waters, protection from the Atlantic's perfect storms, isolation from main shipping channels, easy access to the electrical grid and, of course, wind -- an annual average of 18 miles per hour. The ideal spot, it turned out, is smack in the middle of Nantucket Sound, in the federal waters of Horseshoe Shoal, less than seven miles from the Kennedy compound. 
Cape codders tend to be vain about their environmental sensitivities, so you would think they'd cheer the coming of alternative energy. But supporting the construction of dozens of towering turbines visible from their beaches, boats and waterfront homes is a very different thing from avoiding tern nesting grounds or attending a lecture on shoreline erosion. Even before Gordon finished his analysis of the shoal's sands, a forceful and well-connected army of opposition had formed.
Wayne Kurker, the owner of Hyannis Marina, set about issuing dire warnings of the "industrial park" being planned for the sound. When his neighbors ignored him, Kurker asked a graphic artist to create a mock-up of the proposed wind project and mailed it to thousands of boaters. His mantra was simple: "Windmills are probably great for the environment, but we shouldn't have to sacrifice the environment to build renewable energy."
Soon, the Alliance to Protect Nantucket Sound was filing lawsuits, mounting political pressure in Boston and Washington and, to bolster its legal case and maximize public anxiety, generating volumes of doomsaying critiques: The turbines will break up and the oil inside will spill into the sound, in a repeat of the Exxon Valdez disaster. Birds will be torn apart in "pole-mounted Cuisinarts." Whales will bump their heads. The annual Figawi race, the Memorial Day weekend Hyannis-to-Nantucket regatta, will have to be canceled. The pristine sound will become the world's 11th largest skyline, flashing 520 red and amber lights. 
Representative William Delahunt spearheaded an effort to protect the sound by advocating that it be declared a national marine sanctuary. Robert F. Kennedy Jr. offered his name and voice to the struggle, despite the fact that the Natural Resources Defense Council, the environmental organization for which he is a senior attorney, is a strong advocate of offshore wind development. And the yacht-club set opened its checkbooks, donating money and stock to cover the $100,000-a-month bills for rent, three full-time salaries, television and radio time, two lobbyists and three law firms. 
The alliance's legal strategists are basing their opposition to Cape Wind's proposal on what they say they believe is the absence of sufficient regulation of the private use of federal waters. "A for-profit company is taking advantage of a loophole in federal law," says Isaac Rosen, the Woody Allen-ish executive director of the alliance. "Developers cannot be allowed to swoop down, stick their shovels in the ground and claim a piece of the public waters for themselves. If they're allowed to do so, pretty soon we'll have liquid natural gas processing platforms in the sound, offshore casinos. It will be like the gold rush."
To bolster the legal struggle, Rosen also set about amassing a kind of Cape Cod-style Rainbow Coalition. He brought aboard commercial fishermen to decry the despoiling of their fishing grounds, motel owners worried about an eyesore that would send beachgoers north to Maine and boaters afraid that their small craft could crash up against the massive structures. 
Environmentalists across the country chafe at what they see as the hypocrisy of those supposed Greens on the Cape who oppose the windmills. "The opponents of Cape Wind say they support renewable energy, but exactly what do they support?" asks Seth Kaplan of the Conservation Law Foundation, who admits he is more comfortable suing corporations than siding with them. "One or two turbines at town landfills? That's not going to solve global warming."
Kaplan, like many other environmental advocates, also challenges the alliance's penchant for overstatement: whales will not be harmed, because their sonar allows them to avoid large objects; birds might be killed in the turbines, but at the rate of one or two per year; the turbines contain little oil, so a Valdez replay is impossible.
But nowhere has the alliance been more bitterly accused of peddling half-truths than in local environmental circles. "The sound is not pristine," says Matt Patrick, a member of the State Legislature whose support for the plan greatly compromised his re-election campaign. "You can't get to shore because it is lined with memorials to bad taste. Motorboats race around it, and if you go offshore in the summer, you look back and see yellow brown haze hanging over the mainland. And they make it sound as if Nantucket Sound will look like downtown New York, but the wind farm will be only a thumbnail on the horizon."
Dick Elrick, a Barnstable councilman who has been a ferryboat captain for two decades, is even angrier. "It's tough to listen to the same fishermen who have hurt the habitat by overdragging the bottom of the sound waving the flag of environmentalism," he says. "This isn't environmentalism; it's the not-in-my-backyard syndrome."
Walter Cronkite squirmed a bit at this characterization. "The problem really is Nimbyism," he admitted when I reached him by phone not long ago, "and it bothers me a great deal that I find myself in this position. I'm all for these factories, but there must be areas that are far less valuable than this place is." With prodding, he suggested the deserts of California. Then, perhaps realizing that might be a tad remote to serve New England's energy needs, he added, "Inland New England would substitute just as well."
As we talked, his discomfort was so keen that he interrupted his thought and pleaded, "Be kind to an old man," before summing up. "We have a lot of interesting wildlife, like porpoises and whales," he said. "It's a very important commercial fishing ground, and it's a marvelous boating area for recreational fishermen, for sailors. Last -- but this is not inconsequential -- it will be most unsightly for what is now open bay. Everybody will see it, anyone who wanders on the water, who has a home that faces the water."
This is a familiar refrain from wind-farm opponents across the country who insist on the intrinsic value of their neighborhoods. Activists in the mountains of Tennessee blocked the Tennessee Valley Authority from building 13 to 16 windmills on the ridgeline of Stone Mountain, despite the 33 metric tons of bomb-grade uranium that have been trucked in to nearby Erwin to power nuclear reactors. Their complaints? Up to 120 birds would be sucked into the turbines annually, and Weller's salamanders might be bombarded by spare electrons. 
In Rosalia, Kan., residents pleaded the potential damage to native tall grass and the possible harm to the nesting grounds of prairie chickens. In Maine, hikers feared turbines would be within sight of a stretch of the Appalachian Trail. In rural Illinois, one farmer complained that it was "very annoying, seeing all this spinning around." 
No matter how baseless the fears, everywhere the polemic is identical: we're not opposed to wind power, but this is not the right place. 
"Traditionally, power plants were built in poor neighborhoods, so people living in nice neighborhoods weren't forced to confront the human cost of using electricity," said Greg Watson of the Massachusetts Technology Collaborative, an agency that administers Massachusetts's renewable energy trust. "But unlike coal, oil or natural gas, which you can truck, pipe or barge, Mother Nature dictates where you can locate a wind farm."
This is not, like most anticorporate sagas, a David and Goliath tale. Despite the alliance's portrayal of Cape Wind as an "energy giant," nothing about Jim Gordon suggests evil capitalist or environmental rapist. During his 25 years in the energy business, he has never fallen afoul of the Environmental Protection Agency and has even won the admiration of notoriously feisty Greens. "Jim Gordon is the real thing," says Kert Davies of Greenpeace. "There aren't many entrepreneurs out there willing to take risks to clean up the environment." 
The members of the alliance's board are similarly miscast in their self-assigned roles as small-town folk fighting corporate greed. Over the past several years, Wayne Kurker infuriated many Cape environmentalists when he expanded his Hyannis Marina by erecting corrugated metal hangars along the harbor. And the group's president, Doug Yearley, is a former C.E.O. of Phelps Dodge, one of the world's leading copper-mining companies. The alliance's lobbyist, John O'Brien, is a principal in a Boston firm that represents Exelon Generation, one of the largest fossil-fuel generating companies in the United States. Its Washington attorney is Guy Martin, a former assistant secretary of the interior. And, of course, there is the high-profile support of Robert Kennedy Jr. 
"I am all for wind power," Kennedy insisted in a debate with Gordon on Boston's NPR affiliate. "The costs . . . on the people of this region are so huge, . . . the diminishment to property values, the diminishment to marinas, to businesses. . . . People go to the Cape because they want to connect themselves with the history and the culture. They want to see the same scenes the Pilgrims saw when they landed at Plymouth Rock." (It should be pointed out that the Pilgrims never saw Nantucket Sound, and if they had, they wouldn't have spied the Kennedy compound.)
Ultimately, though, the Kennedy that the alliance most wants on its side is Ted, but to date he has made only halting efforts on its behalf. It has managed to garner the support of Gov. Mitt Romney, and the state's attorney general, Tom Reilly, has also joined the antiwind brigade. But since Horseshoal Shoal is in federal waters, the state has little control, and opponents hold out scant hope that their junior senator, John Kerry, will lend them his aid. "Kerry's in a box," says Cliff Schechtman, editor of The Cape Cod Times. "He owns a house on Nantucket, but he's running for the presidency on a strong alternative energy platform." So they wait for Teddy to swoop in and introduce legislation that will bring Cape Wind's plans to a stop.
Like many serious environmentalists, Deborah Donovan of the Union of Concerned Scientists worries that the alliance's wish will come true and that Kennedy will intervene on its behalf. "Legislative intervention could go on and on every time there's a wind project that politically influential people don't like," she says. "I don't see how anybody would be willing to spend money on this industry."
Greenpeace's Davies suspects that might well be the alliance's real intention. "My gut reaction when I heard about them was that it was a front for the coal industry or some other power-industry sector that didn't want wind power to do well," he says. "And when I see who's on their board, I'm still not entirely sure. But I'm certain they're feeding the forces who want to discredit such technologies."
This sort of stance drives alliance supporters to distraction. "The others believe in green power above all," Yearley despairs. "I'm for trying to jump-start alternative energy, but we need to look at the costs. I don't know what the rush is. We're not going to solve global warming overnight."
The wind supporters at least agree with Yearley on one point: the struggle is ultimately about costs -- it is about the costs of scattering turbines along ridgelines and sounds versus the costs of not doing so. To them, the national illusion that you can have electricity, clean air, a stable climate and independence from foreign oil without paying a steep price is ludicrous. 
In fact, in late April, part of the price Cape Cod is already paying began washing up on its shores. En route to a power plant in Sandwich, on the northwest corner of the Cape, a leaking barge spilled 98,000 gallons of oil into Buzzards Bay. Shellfish beds were closed for a month. At least 370 birds died; 93 miles of coastline were tainted by thick globs of black oil. 
"This is all about trade-offs," says Kaplan of the Conservation Law Foundation. "How much weight do you give aesthetics against the weight I give the reduction in co2? How heavily do you count yachting against the number of people who die from particulate matter? The opponents say they support renewable energy. But it's not acceptable to say that you're in favor of renewable energy only as long as you can't see it."
Kert Davies agrees. "It feels strange for Greenpeace to be fighting a grass-roots group," he says. "And it's sad for me to be arguing against the Kennedys, the only liberals left, and Cronkite, who is everybody's grandfather. But we, as environmental advocates, have to be consistent, and that includes the Kennedysand Cronkite. It's not fair to stump about how scary global warming is one week, then oppose this the next. It's not fair, in terms of environmental justice, for communities with cash to demand that projects they don't want be built somewhere else." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Seascape: A simulated view, part of an impact study commissioned by the developer, of what the wind farm in Nantucket Sound would look like from Craigville Beach. Environmental advocacy groups and their supporters have long been enthusiastic about harnessing wind as a power source. But on Cape Cod, a classic great-idea-but-not-here battle is under way. (Environmental Design and Research); Au Courant: In Europe, offshore wind farms are old news. This 10-turbine facility in Denmark was built in 1995 off the coast of Tuno Island in the Kattegatt strait. (Kate Davison/Greenpeace) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (91%); BEACHES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); NITROGEN OXIDES (69%); CLIMATE CHANGE (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (60%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; WINDMILLS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (59%) CAPE WIND ASSOCIATES 

PERSON: BURKETT, ELINOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (78%); DENMARK (59%) CAPE COD (MASS); NANTUCKET (MASS); NANTUCKET SOUND (MASS)#045T040106SL04A01# 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



348 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Irish Eyes Are Smiling. The Sun Is Not. 

BYLINE:  By MARY MORRIS; MARY MORRIS is a novelist and travel writer.

 BODY:
AS I sat at the seaside home where we stayed last summer on the West Coast of Ireland, I contemplated the fog. It had been thick and gray for three days. Before that, it was mist. In the weeks we were there, we'd only seen the sun sporadically, and always, it seemed, on a day when we were traveling. 
 It's not that we weren't forewarned. Friends gently urged us to take our rain gear. An ardent Ireland traveler told me to take a wool dress. 
 Wool? I thought. It's summer. 
 I went with a kind of naive disbelief. Like anyone setting off on a perilous course, I was sure it wouldn't happen to me. 
 But there were warning signs when we arrived in July. An illuminated sign, showing a couple relaxing on a Caribbean beach, said "It's easier from Shannon to take your summer sun holidays in 2002." Only briefly did I ask myself: Why would they need summer sun? 
 Then, on the Aran Islands as we took a ride, shivering, in a pony cart with a cold mist in our faces, our driver turned to us in the laconic Aran way and said, "Well, at least you got a break in the weather."
 I was unclear why this was a break until we spotted a souvenir T-shirt. It showed a sheep, dressed for all four seasons. In three, he was dressed for rain and in the fourth, he wore a snowsuit.
 The weeks during which it was too cold to head to the beach, which was why we went to the coast in the first place, gave me time to think about the Irish character and its relationship to weather. Descended from the ancient Celts, a loosely organized band, the Irish have maintained a fierce independence, a rugged sense of resignation, a twinkle in the eye and a strong sense of the here and now. 
 In America, we live by our 10-day weather forecasts. Indeed, the language of our weather reports has a kind of poetry to it: 
 "Early clouds soon open to bright sun."
 "Cold front moving in will bring crisp, breezy day." 
 We want to know all things before they happen, and our weathermen seem to make promises they can actually keep. Many times I have planned my life based on the Yahoo weather map. Indeed our forecasters are minor celebrities: we all know Storm Field (great name, of course) and Al Roker. 
 We are sometimes amateur meteorologists ourselves. If I call my father in Milwaukee and tell him it's raining, he says, "Oh, you'll get our sunshine tomorrow." And he's always right.
 But who's an Irishman or woman to call? Their country is smaller than Cuba. If the mother from Cork calls her son in Galway and says, "What's it doing up by you," chances are it's doing the same as down by her.
 A waiter in Connemara put it this way as we slipped into a restaurant to escape the driving rain: "In Ireland you get all four seasons in one day." An Irish friend offered this up as the Irish forecast: "If it's sunny in the morning, it will rain by the evening, and vice versa." 
 My husband, Larry, called this the 10-minute forecast. As we sat on a cold, foggy afternoon, playing a 1983 British edition of "Trivial Pursuit," the question presented itself: What is the name of a person who studies the weather? And we all realized that, unlike how many eyes does a bat have (two), this was not a trick question. 
 The notion of an Irish weatherman is a bit of a paradox to them. At the very least, he seems irrelevant. 
 My Canadian husband was befuddled by this. Weather is the first thing we discuss with our relatives. It is the major topic, especially when people can't say what's really on their minds. 
 For example, we received a letter last winter from a childhood friend who wrote the first page on the weather ("How little snow we've had this season") and on the second page moved seamlessly into the break-up of his marriage. 
 LARRY is perplexed by the Irish's seeming indifference to their climate. To him, it's like a country whose economy is on the brink of collapse, where everyone hides his money under the mattress and goes merrily along.
 But even in this fog and chilly air, I think I see. Ireland remains true to its pagan roots, and mysticism and superstition abound. 
 As we watched a blazing red sunset, a neighbor joined us and said, "Red sun at night, sailors delight." But in the morning when nothing had changed, we altered it to "Red sun at night in Ireland isn't right." 
 One night a flock of birds appeared. Thousands and thousands soared overheard. As we ran out to see, a neighbor's child turned to us and said: 
 "It will be hot tomorrow. We learned this in school. When the birds come in flocks, it will be hot tomorrow." 
 But the next day when it was just as cold as it had been, we were left to ponder the efficacy of the Irish public school system.
 I asked the mother of a friend who lives in Tralee what an Irish weatherman does for a living and she replied: "Oh, they just cover all the bases. A little wind, a little rain, a little sun, a little fog." 
 Yet no one seems too upset by this. 
 Indeed, no one thinks very much about it as they blithely put on their slickers and move their livestock or plow their fields, as they take children for walks or even swim in the sea, which we saw people doing several times in rainstorms. 
 There are no predictions. No "what will come tomorrow." Anything goes.
 That is what I have come to admire about the Irish character. In the pubs, they sing of shipwrecks and of broken hearts and of the heroes of Ireland, but no one sings of the weather. 
 The only person ever to discuss the weather with us in any detail was a despondent Hungarian innkeeper and a neighbor who kept asking cheerily, "So what do you think of our Irish weather?" 
 We did once listen to about a dozen takes of Ella Fitzgerald singing "Stormy Weather" and thought the tape was stuck until we realized it was the restaurant's idea of a joke. And it's not lost on us that their No. 1liqueur is called Irish Mist. 
 But to me it all goes back to those Celts who cast their lot with an unyielding land, but also believed in fairies in the Liss. To them, this land where little grows is magical, and they have clung to it fiercely through years of oppression. 
 They aren't going to be bothered by a few little drops. They will strike a defiant pose and carry on. They will head to their pubs for a pint and a song. 
 In Ireland, I knew when I would next see the sun: When my plane lifted off. The fog that sat outside my window was nothing to them. It would come. It would go. And it had a beauty of its own.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Weber) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (89%); METEOROLOGY (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; WEATHER 

PERSON: MORRIS, MARY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (66%) WISCONSIN, USA (67%) IRELAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (76%) IRELAND

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



349 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island; 
Farmingdale Campus Gets a $133 Million Upgrade

BYLINE:  By CAROLE PAQUETTE 

 BODY:
TO conform with its evolution in the last two decades from a two-year agricultural school to a four-year high-technology and bioscience research university, Farmingdale State University of New York is upgrading its campus under a $133 million capital project that is expected to be completed by 2010. 
 The 10-year-plan for the 90-year-old school includes constructing some new buildings, among them a $20 million dormitory and a $7.5 million athletic complex; renovating some of the older buildings; and demolishing others, including a field house, five dormitories and some barns. 
 The Georgian architecture of some of the older buildings will be retained while they are updated with the latest technology, according to Jonathan C. Gibralter, president of the school since 2000. "We would like to preserve the old buildings and make them as high-tech as possible," he said.
To augment the state's financing, Farmingdale is starting a $10 million fund-raising campaign this year -- its first bid for private support, Dr. Gibralter said. The money will be primarily used to upgrade the dental hygiene center and other laboratories. 
Dr. Gibralter is continuing -- and expanding -- the vision of his predecessor, Frank A. Cipriani, who saw the need for the school to focus on Long Island's rising technological economy, say regional experts.
Seven years ago, at the request of Dr. Cipriani, the economist Pearl M. Kamer conducted an economic impact study of a business and technical park for the university. "Dr. Cipriani was looking to plan for 70 acres of excess land and to promote the technical growth on Long Island," she said. 
"At this point the school has just about completed the transition from a two-year ag school to a four-year technical school. It is playing an important role in educating workers for Long Island's diverse economy, of which technology is a strong part."
According to Dr. Kamer -- who is also chief economist of the Long Island Association, a Commack-based business group -- technological industries like bioscience, electronics, engineering research and computers accounted for 66,123 jobs on Long Island in 2002, up from 54,400 in 1996.
The need to educate workers for those industries had been a concern of the Long Island Regional Planning Board, where Dr. Cipriani was a member, said Lee E. Koppelman, the board's executive director since 1965. 
"We realized early on that it was especially significant to train not the Ph.D.'s but those technicians that the new industries required, and Dr. Cipriani felt this would be a good focus for Farmingdale," Dr. Koppelman said.
Dr. Koppelman, who is a former Suffolk County planning director, added, "It is extremely important, and Dr. Cipriani's successor is carrying forth his vision in a substantial way." 
SITUATED on 380 acres in Suffolk County, on the Nassau border, the school was founded in April 1912 after the State Legislature provided $90,000 for the purchase of land. Called the New York School of Agriculture, its mission was to train students "to develop the land for growing fruits and vegetables for the profitable New York City market," according to a history written by Dr. Frank J. Cavaioli, a professor emeritus at Farmingdale.
During the 1930's, two of the campus's most stately buildings, were constructed: Knapp Hall and Thompson Hall. Both are still in use. After World War II, the school added technical education programs to train returning veterans for jobs in emerging Long Island industries like aircraft construction and military contracting. 
Most two-year programs, including the agricultural program, were discontinued in the mid-1980's when Farmingdale created its first four-year programs, in mechanical and electrical engineering technology. 
This year, the school, which has almost 5,800 students, has more than 20 four-year programs and plans to add another, a bioscience curriculum that will coordinate with Broad Hollow Bioscience Park, a collaborative venture of the school and nearby Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, a leading biological research institution. The 20-acre park, which is at the north end of the campus on Route 110, was designed to nurture start-up companies.
The State University Construction Fund appropriated $22 million for the first structure at Broad Hollow, a 63,500-square-foot building. The anchor tenant, OSI Pharmaceuticals, occupies 54,000 square feet and pays annual rent of $23 a square foot, which does not include the cost of utilities and maintenance. Two start-up companies -- Helicon Therapeutics, which rents 4,800 square feet, and Immuno-Rx, with 1,600 square feet -- pay annual rents of $17 a square foot.
A second building, whose financing has been allocated through a $20 million State Dormitory Authority bond issue, will include 50,000 square feet of space for up to six start-up companies and 5,000 square feet for classroom and lab space for the university's new bioscience program.
Annual rents for the start-up companies are expected to average in the mid-$20's per square foot, including utilities and maintenance, according to Greg Blyskal, the park's executive director. 
To date, $53 million has been allocated by the state to update the school facilities and programs, including technical upgrades that will allow for wireless computers throughout the school by next year.
This summer, construction is to begin on an 800-seat baseball stadium, the first phase of a $7.5 million athletic complex, which will also have eight tennis courts, an outdoor running track and batting cages. 
In January, construction is to begin on a 400-bed, 102,000-square-foot dormitory with suites and private baths, which is expected to open in September 2005. 
The school's 10-year-old Aviation Education Center, which is two miles south of the campus at Republic Airport, is slated to receive $2.7 million for 14 new aircraft to add to its current fleet of 11.
One of the largest projects under way is the overhaul of the 50-year-old brick-and-fieldstone Lupton Hall, which houses the school of engineering technologies. A $12 million renovation of the 49,814-square-foot second floor, which is expected to be completed by December 2004, will involve three programs with equally divided space. 
A chemistry section was recently completed, and renovation of the architecture and construction technology space will be completed by September. Bidding has begun on the third section, to be used by the electrical engineering technology program, which will include six 1,500-square-foot laboratories and four classrooms.
A $5 million biology wing is being designed for the 162,575-square-foot building, and a new entry hall will be created. 
Ten years ago Lupton Hall's first floor -- which includes some laboratories with two-story-high ceilings -- was renovated, and laboratory facilities for its manufacturing engineering program, which includes a fuel cell research center, were upgraded. 
An $8 million project was completed in September at 36-year-old Laffin Hall, which created a one-stop center that consolidated all student services, including the admissions and financial aid offices.
Future projects, which are in the design process but have not yet received financing, include a new 100,000-square-foot, $20 million student activities center, which would be attached to Thompson Hall. The 32,084-square-foot building, with stately columns and cupola, will be retained in its original form as the entry to the new facility.
Two 90-year-old buildings -- Hicks and Cutler Halls -- which have been closed for 10 years, are to be renovated. The stately three-story brick buildings with white-pillared entrances were the school's first education buildings, housing the horticulture and agronomy programs. They cost $63,629 each to build in 1914 and will cost about $4 million each to renovate, Dr. Gibralter said. 
"That would probably require private funding, because they are historic buildings, and they would have to be treated very carefully," said Kathryn Coley, a university spokeswoman.
An ultimate goal for the campus, which had been built around a circular lawn, would be to create a "great mall," which would include the circle and adjacent horticulture gardens, which are maintained by students in the ornamental horticulture program, the school's oldest program still in existence. 
Blending old and new, the mall would stretch halfway across the campus from the venerable Knapp Hall to the cutting-edge Broad Hollow Bioscience Park.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Barbara Maeretz, laboratory manager in the recently renovated chemistry section of Lupton Hall, left; and an undated photo of Cutler Hall. (Kirk Conyles for The New York Times, left) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT HOUSING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (60%); ORAL HYGIENE (52%); COUNTIES (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: PAQUETTE, CAROLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) FARMINGDALE (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



350 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey; 
Murray Hill Office Park to Become Medical Campus

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
OVER the next 17 months, an office complex in Murray Hill, N.J., that dates to the 1950's and formerly housed the D&B Corporation, the financial publisher once known as Dun & Bradstreet, is to be expanded and turned into a campus for Summit Medical Group, among the state's oldest and largest multispecialty physician groups.
 Last month the 79-year-old private group, with 100 doctors serving some 30,000 patients a month, signed a long-term lease as part of a deal that will also enable it to have an equity position in the complex and eventually to buy it. The deal is contingent on formal approval by Summit's physicians, , which Andrew Mintz, the group's executive director, said was expected by the end of next month. 
 The complex has four interconnecting red brick buildings, some with slate roofs, totaling 185,000 square feet. It sits on 43 acres along Diamond Hill Road, off Interstate 78 in Murray Hill, a section of Berkeley Heights. 
Christopher E. Kinum, a senior manager at Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services firm, said the deal indicates that in a market bloated with space, large users "can leverage their tenancy for an equity position, so owners need to be flexible." But, he added, there will not be a flood of such transactions because "all the stars must be aligned for both parties" for them to work.
Some 400,000 to 500,000 square feet of office space is available in Berkeley Heights, contributing to a 40 percent vacancy rate along the 15-mile I-78 East corridor between Berkeley Heights and Bridgewater, which is one of the highest vacancy rates in the state, according to the New Jersey office of the GVA Williams brokerage in Parsippany. 
Summit will relocate its 400 employees from smaller quarters in downtown Summit. It will be the third occupant of the Murray Hill complex, following Braun Engineering, which occupied the site from the 1950's to the 1980's, and Dun & Bradstreet. 
When the financial publisher decided to move to nearby Short Hills N.J., it sold the complex in May of last year for $11.5 million to a partnership of two New Jersey companies. They are Mountain Development of West Paterson and Prudential Real Estate Investors of Parsippany, an affiliate of the Newark-based Prudential Financial.
MORE than $40 million will be invested to upgrade the four buildings and add a fifth one. Glass corridors link the original structures -- which range from a single-level 25,000-square-foot cafeteria and conference center to a four-story 80,000-square-foot office building. 
The planned new building will have 55,000 square feet, and the plan for the building and the entire site still awaits the approval of the township's planning board. Plans also call for adding 460 parking spaces to the 350 existing ones.
The transformation is being financed by $6 million, split between Mountain and Summit, giving the physicians their initial equity in the property, as well as a loan from Sovereign Bank. Once the physicians group, which is under contract to sell its two-acre Summit property covering about 100,000 square feet, moves to Murray Hill in November 2004, it will replace Prudential as a partner, said L. Robert Lieb, chairman of Mountain Development. 
Mr. Lieb said Summit would pay a competitive rent, starting in the mid $20's a square foot annually, which will increase every five years. By the 10th year, the group will have the right to buy the remaining interest in the development at an agreed-upon price, which he would not disclose, citing confidentiality agreements. 
"With this deal," Mr. Lieb said, "we have an immediate tenant and avoid much market risk." 
David A. Cohen, the mayor of Berkeley Heights, added that in the current economic climate, the township is pleased to gain "a significant commercial ratable," to the township's tax base. As a vacant site, he said, its value had fallen to $11 million to $12 million from $24 million.
Vincent J. DeNave, the township administrator, added that after Summit moves in, the complex is expected to generate the same tax revenue as when D&B occupied it, which was about $500,000 a year. 
Dr. Jeffrey LeBenger, Summit's chairman, said the deal would not only allow the group to more than double its space and consolidate its operations but to realize its dream of "providing patients one-stop shopping." Along with its existing Summit campus, the group occupies 14,000 square feet of space at nearby Overlook Hospital. 
The group's satellite offices -- one each in Short Hills, Millburn, Watchung and Westfield -- will remain open, and one in Summit will be established. 
The Murray Hill deal, Mr. Mintz added, "makes sense financially because we are paying rent to an entity in which we will be part owners, so the net effect of the lease payments are similar to mortgage payments." 
Dr. LeBenger said his group began searching for a new location more than three years ago when it became clear that the group was really cramped without space to expand. He said the group chose the old D&B headquarters because, among other factors, it is close to its current base of patients and accessible to new ones to the west.
STILL, it took a year to structure the deal. Mr. Lieb said that the partners had bought the complex with Summit in mind as the main prospective tenant, but the property first had to be rezoned to allow medical use. That process was completed last fall. Over the next seven months the terms of the lease were hammered out and plans for the campus crafted.
Mr. Lieb said the partners were confident that even if the Summit deal had fallen through, they could lease the complex to other tenants attracted to its location off I-78. 
Renovation of the existing buildings is to start in August. Peter Biber of Summit is the architect. 
The work includes stripping the two larger office buildings to their skeletons to make way for doctors' offices, labs and examining and treatment rooms. All the structures will be refurbished and the new one, which will connect to the others, will serve as the complex's main entrance. 
There are community concerns about traffic. But Mr. DeNave said while "there will be an impact," the developer is working with the township "to try to minimize it."
With the new space, Dr. LeBenger said, his group would expand existing programs like radiology and add new ones, including same-day surgery. But its name, he added, will not change despite having a Murray Hill address.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Four buildings in Murray Hill will be renovated and a new building added for the Summit Medical Group. (Jill C. Becker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); APPROVALS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (62%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; DOCTORS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

COMPANY: DUN & BRADSTREET CORP (94%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); REAL ESTATE INVESTORS PLC (51%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SUMMIT MEDICAL GROUP; D&B CORP 

TICKER: DNB (NYSE) (94%); RLE (LSE) (51%); PRU (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (94%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (51%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (51%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%) MURRAY HILL (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



351 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
Home Prices Still Rising Except at the High End

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

 BODY:
OH, what a beautiful spring, comes the chorus from home sellers. While the rain never seemed to stop falling, prices went as high as an elephant's eye in many suburbs and some say they will keep climbing way up the sky.
 Well, perhaps that is putting a bit of extra gloss on realtors' unstintingly upbeat views of the New Jersey home market. There is, many of them will concede, a cloud or two on the horizon when it comes to sales of the most expensive homes. But real estate professionals agree the trend in sales prices continues upward for homes with asking prices below about $700,000 -- at least in communities with short commutes to Manhattan, at least while interest rates remain at record lows. 
 "We had 15 percent appreciation in sales prices across the board for homes we listed and sold last year," said Pat Hoferkamp, president of Burgdorff ERA. "This year, to date, we've again had 15 percent appreciation." 
She noted that Burgdorff has 23 offices in towns along commuter train lines in northern New Jersey, which makes them "very desirable communities." Still, 30 percent appreciation is robust any way you look at it, Mrs. Hoferkamp said, and she sees no signs of slackening.
She and other residential brokers said they perceived no price bubble that will abruptly burst -- even in towns where prices seem to have floated to the stratosphere.
IN Montclair, where last year one home got 22 offers and sold for $298,000 -- or 42 percent -- over the asking price, the average offer is running 5 to 10 percent over asking price this spring, according to local realtors, and bidding wars seem to have become virtually part of the landscape. 
Last weekend, the Sunday open houses were mobbed as usual, for homes ranging from a restored and upgraded Craftsman colonial offered at $1.4 million to a spiffed-up three-bedroom Dutch colonial on the market for $429,000. 
A three-bedroom, one-bath home across the street from the Dutch colonial -- virtually untouched for approximately 50 years, and being sold on behalf of its 91-year-old owner with no marketing other than a sign -- garnered four offers the weekend before. It sold for $366,000 -- 8 percent over the asking price. 
Burgdorff ERA's Montclair office manager, Carolee Jones, said there were 13 immediate offers on another home in the same Upper Montclair neighborhood, with the top bidder offering $150,000 over the asking price for a house that had been listed at more than $500,000.
"I think the rapid appreciation can continue indefinitely," said Coldwell Banker's Montclair office manager, Robert W. Norman, "primarily because interest rates are so low." Mr. Norman said that based on typical mortgage computations, buyers who could afford to pay $1,800 a month on a 30-year mortgage loan would have been able to afford a $450,000 house two years ago -- and now, with interest rates a percentage point lower, could afford a $600,000 house. 
Montclair was one of four New Jersey towns listed this month by Money magazine as being among places in the nation where median home values have increased the most in the last five years. 
An analysis performed by a consultant for the magazine said the median value of homes increased 102.5 percent in that period in Montclair, 102.9 percent in the shore town of Rumson, 92.7 percent in Glen Ridge -- which borders Montclair -- and 92.5 percent in Palisades Park.
But Jacelyn Botti, president of Weichert Realtors, the largest residential firm in the state, observed that five-year figures never reflect what is happening right now, which is, as she sees it, this: "Prices are increasing more rapidly in the most affordable markets, and the rate of appreciation is beginning to slow in average and median price homes. 
"You can take communities and neighborhoods with the lowest household prices in an area or a town, and they are still experiencing the highest rate of appreciation," she said. "The average and median home sale prices are being impacted by an extremely soft upper-end market, for homes priced at $2 million-plus."
In Rumson, where median home prices rose to $493,500 at the beginning of this year, the high-end market has slowed somewhat, said Coldwell Banker's office manager, Bob Kievit, who is also the president-elect of the New Jersey Association of Realtors. "Anything in decent condition priced around $500,000 is not going to last," Mr. Kievit said, "but homes selling for a million dollars and up are now taking a few months to sell, and prices are a bit lower than they would have been six months to a year ago."
The slower market for the highest priced homes is true across the state and actually began more than two years ago with the decline of the stock market and the halt in production of "under-30 millionaires," according to Jeffrey G. Otteau, who runs a New Jersey home appraisal consultancy bearing his last name. The average age of buyers in the $1 million-and-up range has gone up by about 10 years in the last couple of years, Mr. Otteau said, adding that the statement was based on information gleaned by regularly polling sales agents of newly constructed homes. "Buyers in the older age range are much more cautious," he said.
The slowing in the upper end market began at a time when the overall market was still "very very tight," he said -- meaning there were many more buyers than homes available. "But it takes a couple of years of that to see an effect on price," said Mr. Otteau. "Remember that in the 1980's, when we last saw a price correction, the market began to weaken observably in '86-'87, but it was not until '89 that the supply of homes for sale swelled to the point where we saw an effect on price."
Ms. Botti of Weichert agreed with other residential specialists that there are pockets where the market continues to be "extremely strong," with price appreciation of 20 percent or more. "In those markets, there is still lack of inventory for the eight-four-two colonial," she said, meaning a limited number of ever-popular eight-room houses with four bedrooms and two baths.
But, Ms. Botti said, based on the statistics Weichert keeps -- and the multiple listing services and other numbers she is privy to -- the number of homes for sale across the state is sharply up. "I haven't seen listing inventory levels of this size for three and ahalf to four years," she said. "We see houses staying on the market longer, and more of them are 'expiring,' " she said, meaning that sales agents are unable to broker a sale within the time span of a sales contract, typically six months.
She and others attributed this in part to the impact of the spate of reports about rising prices, with those reports causing more and more homeowners to put homes on the market, which will inevitably lead it to slow down.
Mr. Otteau added that many baby boomer homeowners are putting homes on the market because they have decided it is time to downsize or migrate full-time to the Jersey shore.
IN the hottest markets in the state -- those with direct commuter service to Manhattan or quick access to the shore or both -- sales agents said that the heat radiates out from any particular town's boundaries. For example, a renovated three-bedroom home on Parkview Drive in Bloomfield near Brookdale Park, which straddles Montclair's border with Bloomfield, was sold in March for $509,000 -- $110,000, and 32 percent, over the asking price -- no longer shocking in Montclair, but a first for Bloomfield, as best area realtors said they can recall.
Mr. Kievit said he bought a modestly priced house in a town near Rumson and has seen its value rise on a pace with Rumson's. "Little tiny homes in Ocean Beach -- 600 square feet, on 50 by 30 foot properties -- are selling for $250,000 to $300,000 right now," he said 
Where might it all end? Some buyers are beginning to sour on the auction atmosphere in the Montclair market, various realtors said, and are turning to other towns in the area. "That's a big reason why we see the big hike in appreciation in Glen Ridge," Mrs. Hoferkamp said.
But Mr. Kievit said he simply cannot foresee an end to rising prices. "This area has always been strong," he said of Monmouth and Ocean Counties, both of which hug the shore. "There is only one ocean, and only one financial center to commute to in Manhattan. Short of Wall Street moving to Idaho, I think it will always be an attractive place to live."

GRAPHIC: Photo: This renovated three-bedroom home on Parkview Drive in Bloomfield sold in March for $509,000, which was $110,000 over the asking price. One realtor said that prices have risen 15 percent since the beginning of the year on top of a 15 percent increase last year. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); NEW ISSUES (70%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (70%); HOUSING BUBBLE (70%); TRAINS (52%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (52%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES 

PERSON: MARTIN, ANTOINETTE

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



352 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
Outside Directors Don't Mean Outsize Returns

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of CBS MarketWatch. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
RESEARCHERS have found little evidence that companies improve their performance by raising the number of independent directors on their boards. In fact, some recent studies have found that they perform worse -- a result that would surprise many corporate reformers.
 Independent directors are neither employees nor officers of the company, and they have no business or personal relationships with it. Many advocates of change say that outsiders are in a better position than insiders to resist unwise corporate policies, and that increasing the number of independent directors should improve performance. 
 That has not worked out in practice, however. Almost all of the several dozen academic studies on board independence have found that it has no correlation with company performance or that companies generally perform worse when they have more outsiders on their boards. 
A widely cited academic study was begun in the mid-1990's by Sanjai Bhagat, a finance professor at the University of Colorado at Boulder, and Bernard Black, now a law professor at Stanford. Examining nearly 1,000 publicly traded American companies, the professors found that from the end of 1990 through 1993, the companies that performed the worst were those whose boards had the greatest proportion of outside directors when the period began. The study was published in the winter 2002 issue of the Journal of Corporation Law.
The professors measured corporate performance in several ways, including stock returns, return on assets and the ratio of sales to assets. They also calculated the ratio of a company's market capitalization to the replacement cost of its assets -- known as Tobin's Q ratio, for the late James Tobin, the 1981 Nobel laureate in economics; the professors consider that ratio to be a good proxy for investor confidence in a company's management.
The researchers said their findings did not necessarily mean that greater board independence caused poor performance. In fact, the reverse may be true: companies that are performing particularly poorly often increase the number of outside directors in the hope of restoring investor confidence. The companies' subsequent performance might not show improvement because the outside directors did not counteract the policies that had led to poor performance in the first place.
The research on board independence contrasts with other studies that have found that good corporate governance is associated with better performance. One of the most comprehensive of such studies, which appeared in the February 2003 issue of the Quarterly Journal of Economics, was conducted by Paul A. Gompers, a professor of business administration at the Harvard Business School; Joy Ishii, a graduate student in economics at Harvard; and Andrew Metrick, a finance professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. 
They focused on 24 different ways in which companies restrict shareholder rights -- for example, through so-called poison pill defenses, which aim to immunize corporate leadership from a hostile takeover. The researchers found that during the 1990's, companies with the fewest restrictions significantly outperformed companies with the most restrictions.
Though Professor Gompers and his co-authors did not focus on boards' independence, he sees no contradiction among the various studies. One of the most crucial factors in a company's long-term performance, he said, is its corporate culture: Is the firm responsive to shareholder concerns, or has it immunized itself from any such influence? "Directors have had little effect on corporate performance," Professor Gompers said, "because they largely have been unwilling to change that culture."
He said he believes that "until and unless boards become more active, board independence will continue to be a poor proxy for good corporate culture."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Overrated Independence?"A study published in 2002 of nearly 1,000 large companies found that those with the fewest outsiders on their boards performed better than those with the most outsiders. Valuation Jan. 1, 1991 - Dec. 31, 1993As measured by Tobin's Q ratio of a company's market capitalization to the replacement value of its assets. A higher ratio indicates more investor confidence in management. Fewest outside board members: 1.14Most outside board members: 0.97 (Sources: Sanjai Bhagat University of Colorado at Boulder and Bernard Black Stanford )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ETHICS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (70%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (63%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; RESEARCH; ETHICS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (83%)

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



353 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: MONEY & MEDICINE; 
Payinga Price for Pared-Down Health Plans

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE ANDREWS; Michelle Andrews is a freelance writer in Manhattan specializing in health care. Her column on its economics appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: moneymeds@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IN the debate over the affordability of health care, state-mandated insurance benefits are getting plenty of attention. The mandates require insurers who sell policies in a particular state to offer or provide certain coverage. But some states have passed laws that let insurers sell bare-bones policies that don't offer these benefits. And a bill is wending its way through Congress to permit so-called association health plans that let employers band together to buy health insurance and bypass these laws.
 Business groups argue that state-mandated benefits contribute significantly to rising health costs and make it difficult for many employers, especially small businesses that lack bargaining power, to buy insurance. 
 Benefit mandates from the states, however, provide important consumer protection. Many mandates deal with preventive measures like screening for breast, colon or prostate cancer; regular doctor visits and immunizations for children; and supplies and education for diabetics. They may also address treatment for alcohol and substance-abuse, or reproductive-health concerns like infertility treatments, contraception and maternity coverage. Some mandates say who must be covered; for example, they may forbid an insurer from dropping dependent disabled children from their parents' policies after they reach adulthood.
Business owners chafe under the restrictions. A strong coalition of business and trade groups is supporting the association health plan bill, which was approved by the House Education and Work Force Committee last week and is expected to be taken up by the full House this month.
Last month, the Texas Legislature passed a bill to allow insurers to sell plans that are exempt from many state mandates. The bill's supporters say they expect the Texas governor, Rick Perry, to sign the legislation; the governor's press office, however, says he is still reviewing it.
One supporter of the bill is Bill Jones, who owns a steel fabrication company and a steel distribution company, both in Temple, Tex., and employs about 170 people altogether.
"This will give us more flexibility," said Mr. Jones, who is also Temple's mayor. "Employees at my smaller company can't afford to cover their families. This will give me a chance to buy insurance that is just bare-bones instead of what we have now that covers everything." Mr. Jones said that he hoped that the bill, by allowing him to offer a less expensive, less comprehensive plan that is exempt from many state mandate requirements, would make family coverage affordable for his employees.
He already has an idea about which mandated benefits he will drop if he can: coverage for H.I.V. and AIDS, mental illness, contraceptives and infertility.
The Texas Association of Business lobbied hard for the bill. "Texas is one of the worst in terms of mandates," said Bill Hammond, the group's president. "We think it will make as much as 25 percent difference in the cost of health insurance premiums."
In a 2000 study for the Texas Insurance Department on the impact of mandates, the health care consulting company Milliman USA found that they accounted for less than 6.5 percent of health insurance premiums in Texas. "We had thought it would be considerably higher than that," said Jose Montemayor, the Texas insurance commissioner.
The Congressional Budget Office had a similar finding in 2000, when it looked at the effect of association health plans on small-group health insurance premiums and coverage. It determined that benefit mandate exemptions would reduce premiums by no more than 5 percent for companies that participated in association plans. According to research by Jonathan Gruber, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, reducing premiums by 5 percent would increase the rate at which small companies offered health insurance by just 3 percent.
(About 61 percent of companies with fewer than 200 employees offer health benefits, versus 99 percent of those that employ more than 200, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation's 2002 Employer Health Benefits Survey.)
If mandates don't have much effect on the affordability or accessibility of care, why do small employers want so badly to get out from under them? "It's a philosophical issue in part," said Mila Kofman, an assistant research professor at the Georgetown Health Policy Institute in Washington. "They think, 'Large employers don't have this added expense, so why should we?' " 
LARGE employers are not subject to many state insurance laws, including mandates, because they self-insure rather than buy insurance from state-regulated insurers. A report by the General Accounting Office in 1996 concluded that large employers that were not required to offer mandated benefits often did so anyway. 
Although mandates may cost less than business groups say, they can add up. "Small firms are very price-sensitive, and a 5 percent premium decrease can mean a lot," Dr. Gruber said.
For consumers, stripped-down plans pose problems. Although mandates vary state to state, they create a standard of coverage and give people confidence that certain basic benefits will be covered. That wouldn't be the case under the proposed changes. In fact, the Texas bill would require applications for the new Consumer Choice of Benefits Health Insurance Plan to say in bold type that it might provide fewer benefits than policies normally sold in Texas and would direct consumers to ask insurance agents which benefits were covered.
"These new laws are basically designed like a cafeteria plan, and you pick and choose what you want," said Lisa McGiffert, a senior policy analyst at the Consumers Union Southwest office in Austin, Tex. "But the problem with health care is you just never know what's going to happen to you."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (91%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (78%); APPROVALS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); MEN'S HEALTH (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (72%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); POLITICS (70%); PROSTATE DISEASE (70%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (62%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (62%); METALS & MINERALS WHOLESALERS (62%); PROSTATE CANCER (53%) HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: RICK PERRY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



354 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Pursuing a Chance in a Hard Job Market

BYLINE:  By Steven Greenhouse 

 BODY:
LAWRENCE McCANN was enjoying a brilliant career, having worked as a trader at Morgan Stanley and Nomura Securities. But then he was run down by a hit-and-run driver six years ago and was hurt so seriously that a priest administered last rites. His legs were badly mangled, and his left foot was nearly amputated, but he survived. Since then, Mr. McCann has worked to regain his strength, his ability to walk and his confidence, and now, feeling sufficiently recovered, he has started looking for work in the financial world. 
 But like many people with disabilities, Mr. McCann has found that it is not easy to land a job. He is never sure if companies pass him over because there are better applicants or because they are wary of hiring someone branded as having disabilities. 
 "Frankly the job market is tough for everyone right now," said Mr. McCann, who expresses gratitude for the way his wife stood by him through his ordeal. "Disability may be one more reason in this environment to discard a resume. When you tell people you're recovering from a hit-and-run, people who say they receive 1,000 resumes a day might use that as one reason to put your resume into the circular file."
Employment experts say it is never easy for people with disabilities to find jobs, but the current economic slump has made it only harder. "Before Sept. 11, it was getting increasingly difficult for people with disabilities to find jobs, and after Sept. 11, it worsened," said Susan Odiseos, executive director of Just One Break (212-785-7300), a nonprofit group founded by Eleanor Roosevelt and others to help people with disabilities find jobs. "It's probably twice as hard as it was before, but I should add that there are definitely jobs out there."
If there is a silver living for disabled workers in today's economic climate, it is that they are not being laid off at a higher rate than workers without disabilities. "As a general rule, once disabled people are hired, they don't get laid off more frequently than others," said Jim Weisman, general counsel of the Eastern Paralyzed Veterans Association (718-803-3782), a group based in Queens that counsels hundreds of people with disabilities. "If you're competent, then your employer wants to keep you. Employers are more interested in competence than whether you're disabled."
A Harris poll commissioned by the National Organization on Disability found that 32 percent of Americans with disabilities were employed, compared with 81 percent of those without disabilities. As for disabled people who say they are able to work, the poll found that 56 percent of them were employed. According to the poll, 36 percent of people with disabilities who have jobs said they had encountered some form of discrimination in the workplace because of their disabilities, with half of that group saying they were denied a job at some point because of their disabilities. 
The Americans With Disabilities Act prohibits employers from discriminating against disabled job applicants who are capable of doing the work they apply for. 
Many employment experts say that even employers who felt uneasy at first about hiring people with disabilities soon see that they can be excellent workers.
"An individual who is disabled who is coming into the workplace tends to be more appreciative, more motivated, more loyal, more eager to learn than someone who's not disabled," said Kenneth Eichler, president of Primary Resource Network, a Manhattan-based company that does medical evaluations of people applying for workers' compensation. About one-fifth of his work force are people with disabilities.
Advocates for the disabled praise many companies, including Nordstrom, Home Depot and American Airlines, for aggressively seeking to hire people with disabilities. A survey done by the Beta Research Corporation last February found that 50 percent of hiring managers said they were actively recruiting disabled workers. In New York, Colgate-Palmolive has earned praise for hiring many people with disabilities and encouraging them to advance. With the help of Just One Break, Jeff Williams, who is in a wheelchair, landed a job in the mailroom at Colgate-Palmolive's Park Avenue headquarters. Helped by financial assistance from the company, he took paralegal courses at Adelphi University and has since been promoted to budget analyst in the legal department.
Mr. Williams voiced thanks to Just One Break and Colgate-Palmolive: "They've made it clear to me that as long as I did the work, I would go as far as I could go."

This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence McCann, at his home in Trumansburg, N.Y., has begun to seek a job in the financial field after a hit-and-run accident left him severely injured six years ago. (Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); DISABLED WORKERS (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (85%); HIT & RUN (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); PARALYSIS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); LAWYERS (50%) LABOR; HANDICAPPED; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; DISCRIMINATION; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; MCCANN, LAWRENCE#034T031231SL04A01# 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



355 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Hilary Neff, Christopher Crevier

 BODY:
Hilary Harner Neff, the daughter of Barbara Harner Neff of Basking Ridge, N.J., and James L. Neff of New York, was married on Block Island yesterday to Christopher Matthew Crevier, a son of Roger L. Crevier of Princeton, N.J., and the late Sandra Boyer Crevier. Richard E. Kyte Jr., an associate judge of the Municipal Court in Burrillville, R.I., officiated at the Atlantic Inn in New Shoreham, R.I. 
 Mrs. Crevier, 33, is studying for a master's degree in psychological counseling at Columbia University's Teachers College in New York. She graduated from George Washington University. Her father retired as a vice president of the Bank of New York and a manager of its personal trust department. He is now a member of the board of Learning Leaders, the New York City school volunteers program, and is the treasurer of Eviction Intervention Services of New York, which provides legal aid. The bride is the stepdaughter of Frederica S. Neff. 
 Mr. Crevier, 34, is a vice president for interest-rate derivatives sales at Merrill Lynch in New York. He graduated from Dartmouth and received an M.B.A. with high honors from the University of Chicago. His father retired as the chief financial and administrative officer of the Phoenix House Foundation in New York, the parent organization of the drug treatment centers. The bridegroom is a stepson of May S. Crevier.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); LEGAL AID (76%); EVICTION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); JUDGES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (70%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (67%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (55%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: NEFF, HILARY HARNER (HILARY HARNER CREVIER); CREVIER, CHRISTOPHER MATTHEW 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



356 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/New 4Matic in Mercedes Wagons; 
Full-Time All-Wheel Drive, And So Smooth It's Invisible

BYLINE:  By BOB KNOLL 

 BODY:
UP in the North Country, the traditional rear-wheel-drive Mercedes-Benz models have never been renowned for their ability to get around with grace when the roads were slippery or covered in snow. In nasty weather, owners of luxury sedans looked to Audis with quattro drive or even Subaru Outbacks. More recently, S.U.V.'s have filled the gap.
 In the 1990's, aside from introducing its own S.U.V., the M-Class, Mercedes enhanced the versatility of a few models by offering them with all-wheel drive. And this year it has not only improved its all-wheel-drive system, called 4Matic, it is making it available on all three classes of sedans and wagons sold in the United States. By this fall, the new 4Matic will be offered on all sedans and wagons in the midsize C-Class, full-size E-Class and large S-Class lines. The company says that more than 30 percent of buyers of its cars offering 4Matic in the United States already choose it, and predicts that figure will rise to about half. 
 The previous 4Matic moved torque from the rear wheels to the front only when traction was lost at the rear wheels. The new version drives all four wheels all the time and is essentially the same as the system in the M-Class. It is designed to be so transparent that drivers are not aware that their cars are making them better and safer. There are no buttons or levers, nor any special low-geared transfer case to provide more control and torque for driving slowly in low-traction off-road conditions.
The new Mercedes system uses the already existing traction control, stability control and antilock braking system to reduce or eliminate spinning of the wheel or wheels that have lost traction. Thus there is no need to use an overly complicated (and expensive) system to control the traction from side to side; computer-controlled applications of the antilock brakes can do that. The power distribution from front to rear is controlled by a center differential that can move the torque as needed. In Mercedes's case, the torque is normally split 60 percent to the rear wheels and 40 percent to the front, so the car still has the "feel" of rear-wheel drive. Indeed, the 4Matic is so unobtrusive that it is hard to know it is there. 
I tested two versions of the C-Class station wagon, the C240 and C320, both with 4Matic. They are sleek and streamlined and, in my view, more attractive than their sedan counterparts. The stylish roof line does, however, reduce the useful cargo volume when compared with the squared-off roofline of competitors like the Audi A4 or Volvo V70. Accommodations for five are comfortable (there is no third seat) and the fit, finish and folding mechanisms are first-rate. Along with the usual luggage cover, a partition net is easily raised to isolate the cargo area.
Those familiar with previous Mercedes model designations may be surprised that the C240 is not powered by a 2.4-liter 4-cylinder, but by a 2.6-liter V-6. The C320, on the other hand, really does have the 3.2-liter V-6 that its name suggests. The smaller V-6 develops 168 horsepower and 177 pounds-feet of torque, and the 3.2 is rated at 215 horsepower and 221 pounds-feet.
Both engines come with a five-speed automatic Touch Shift transmission that can be shifted like a manual, though without a clutch. Unlike most competitors, it has only one drive position; for other gears you move the lever from side to side. In practice, this works better than others I have tried, but why bother shifting an automatic transmission?
Both engines are smooth and plenty powerful, though the 3.2 felt a little sluggish when accelerating from rest -- a traditional Mercedes characteristic. Strangely, the smaller 2.6 responded more quickly to the throttle and actually felt more peppy. Both engines have the same government fuel economy rating -- 19 m.p.g. in town and 25 on the highway -- and both require premium fuel. My driving showed a more normal relationship between the engines; the 2.6 averaged about 21 m.p.g. and the 3.2 about 19 m.p.g.
Ride, handling and braking are all very good, as expected. Aside from the traction and antilock braking systems, these wagons have an electronic stability control that brakes a single wheel to help prevent an imminent skid. The systems are completely unobtrusive in normal circumstances. Combined with 4Matic to control any wheel spin, the driver merely has to steer the car; everything else appears to be taken care of by the engineering.
In case of a crash, Mercedes has equipped these wagons with all the safety features you would expect of an upmarket car, including side air bags for both front and rear seats and head protection curtains that cover the side windows.
With 4Matic, the C240 wagon starts at $35,190, including shipping. My test model listed for $40,500, including $5,310 in options. The C320 wagon, also with 4Matic, starts at $40,545; the test car was $44,975. Mercedes has established realistic base prices but, typical of the high-end German automakers, it makes you pay extra for too many features that ought to be standard, and in some cases it makes you pay dearly.
Nice as these wagons are, a few design problems bothered me. The rear window seemed small when viewed from the inside mirror. More times than I cared to count, I moved the awkwardly situated cruise control stalk when I was trying to signal a turn. And the memory seat in the C320 often did not return to the position I had asked it to memorize. Instead of a simple-to-load CD changerin the dashboard, like the kind offered by nearly every other carmaker, the Mercedes changer is inconveniently situated in the glovebox, where it uses a lot of space. So much, in fact, that the thick owner's manual has to be stuffed in a door pocket.
There were some nice touches, as well. Most clever was the cassette location in the C240 -- out of view behind the radio display, which pops down when the eject button is pushed. Also on the C240, the voice-controlled audio and phone systems worked well; I don't know how it recognized my voice, but it did. As well it should for the additional cost of $1,995. Another package included a glass sunroof and rain-sensing windshield wipers that turned the wipers on when the windshield got wet. They worked quite well.
The C320 had the Comand system, an unimpressive trip computer that cost $2,125 and did away with what would have been a standard cassette player. It did not include a navigation system. I never did figure out all that the Comand system could do, nor did I need to.
Competitive all-wheel-drive wagons are the Audi A4 quattro, BMW 325xi Sports Wagon, the Volkswagen Passat 4Motion and two Volvos, the V70AWD and V70 XC. The fanciest Subaru wagon, the Outback L. L. Bean edition, is also competitive in features and price. Prices of well-equipped versions generally range from $33,000 to $38,000, though they can creep higher. The Mercedes C240 4Matic wagon can be sensibly optioned to about $38,000; the C320 is typically well over $40,000.
The Mercedes wagons are solidly built, nicely styled and perform as well as any car in their class. Still, they tend to be more expensive than competitors that do the same thing about as well.

INSIDE TRACK: High-style wagons with nonskid powers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Audi A4, with its quattro drive system, competes against Mercedes. (pg. 4); (pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SEDANS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); ELECTRONIC TRACTION & STABILITY CONTROL (78%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (75%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (67%) AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

ORGANIZATION: MERCEDES-BENZ 

PERSON: KNOLL, BOB

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



357 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Is This Cream Worth $500 

BYLINE:  By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
WHEN the summer 2003 Bliss catalog, full of lip plumpers and wrinkle-fighting serums, arrived in the mail a few weeks ago, it seemed an artifact of another time, specifically a pre-bubble moment four years ago when the appearance of a skin cream costing nearly $200 for a single ounce might have seemed almost an inevitability.
 That product, developed in 2000 but reformulated two months ago, is Re-Storation Deep Repair Facial Serum. Its ingredients include extracts from soybeans, kelp, lemon grass and rose hip, and the antioxidants alpha lipoic acid, green tea and grapeseed extract. Its manufacturer is called Z. Bigatti, a name that might conjure images of Milanese scientists and laboratories in the Dolomites even though its founder, Dr. Jennifer Biglow, is a dermatologist based in St. Paul, Minn., who speaks with an accent few would mistake for Continental. 
 "My business partner made it up," Dr. Biglow said of the name. "I thought it was kind of sexy. It could be a car, it could be leather, it could be anything luxurious."
Deep Repair Facial Serum is one of a new breed of radically priced so-called anti-aging skin care concoctions that have made the legendarily expensive Creme de la Mer -- at $90 an ounce -- seem a meager extravagance. Earlier this year, for instance, the Swiss company La Prairie introduced Creme Cellulaire Radiance, which it says will improve skin's elasticity through a combination of plant-based estrogens derived from soybeans and wild yams, among other things. The cream costs $500 for a 1.7-ounce jar. It lists 62 ingredients on the side of the packaging, the first being water.
Also new tothe counters of stores like Neiman Marcus is Intensite Creme Lustre at $375 for two ounces, from Re Vive, a company started by a plastic surgeon named Gregory Bays Brown. (Re Vive "is just a contrived name, a bogus French name," Dr. Brown said from his office in Louisville, Ky.) The product is so costly, he said, because its primary ingredient is a protein called Insulin-like Growth Factor (IGF), which, he said, stimulates collagen production in order to plump up the skin and diminish the appearance of lines. IGF costs Dr. Brown $30,000 a gram, he said, with one gram enough to produce about 200,000 jars (which works out to 15 cents of IGF per $375 jar, but the company says hundreds of thousands of dollars of research went into IGF's formulation). A secondary ingredient in the cream is Metalloproteinase inhibitor (MPI) which, Dr. Brown said, costs $25,000 a gram and works to block a collagen-destroying enzyme. 
Intensite's price-to-quantity ratio does not seem to strike some women as lunacy. Gilda Smith, a 50-year-old New York interior designer, said she has used it and recommended it to at least 25 women who are, she said, "all crazy about it."
"I think the economy is poor," she remarked, "but people are looking for products that will help them postpone plastic surgery. After all, a face lift will be $20,000, and this product will tighten your skin and put off a face lift for at least five or six years."
Leslie Baumann, chief of cosmetic dermatology at the University of Miami, cautioned that growth factors of the sort in Intensite have not been extensively studied. "What if they cause cancer? Long-term data needs to be gathered," Dr. Baumann said.
Those who predicted the onset of a more pragmatic-minded consumer culture after the trauma of 9/11 would not have foreseen the emergence of a market for skin creams that cost as much as some household appliances. But since 9/11, as Allan Mottus, editor of the Informationist, a cosmetic-industry trade publication, pointed out, "there's been a whole movement toward more therapeutic, more expensive skin care products based on the idea that people want to take better care of themselves." In fact, a recent report from NPD, a market-research firm in Long Island, showed that in 2002 luxury skin care products (which NPD defined as products priced over $70) resulted in $169 million in sales at department stores, a 47 percent increase over the year before.
Typically, the products occupying the upper reaches of the market draw their appeal in part from the fact that they are not nationally advertised. This is an effective marketing strategy, said Marian Friestad, a consumer psychologist and professor at the University of Oregon, "because it makes the creams feel like a very special secret only a few people know about."
Certainly, the products seem to have found an audience. At Bergdorf Goodman in New York, Patricia Saxby, vice president of the cosmetics division, said that creams costing more than $100 per ounce usually account for 25 percent of their manufacturers' revenues at the store. In April, La Prairie introduced a larger, 3.4-ounce version of its Caviar Luxe Creme for $550, because the product had become La Prairie's best-selling one worldwide.
That women continue to invest money and faith in over-the-counter creams for which no scientific testing is required is a source of astonishment to some physicians. "Do I think any of this is better than a bottle of Purpose?" said Dr. Robyn Gmyrek, assistant clinical professor of dermatology at Columbia University. "No." (Purpose, a moisturizer, costs about $10 at drug stores.) "There is not a single moisturizer on earth that will get rid of wrinkles," she said.
"I feel very strongly that this is all such a lie," said Dr. Cheryl Thellman-Karcher, a Manhattan dermatologist. "When my patients ask me about this stuff, I tell them, Save your money or give it to someone who needs it." 
At issue is not necessarily that the foundation ingredients in these products fail to perform in the way manufacturers claim -- their makers are careful not to say the creams eliminate wrinkles. At most, the products make skin "look luminous from the instant of application" (Radiance), or "rejuices the skin while plumping wrinkles for a healthier appearance" (Intensite Creme Lustre). 
The issue is that the same ingredients can often be found in far less expensive creams. Soybean extracts, which play a major role in some of the high-end products, do in fact prevent the development of brown age spots and diminish the appearance of existing ones, Dr. Baumann said. "Soy is a good thing but it can be found in Aveeno," Dr. Baumann said, referring to Aveeno Daily Moisturizer, a cream available at drug stores for $15.49 an ounce. "The only exception I can think of -- when something might be worth the money -- is if it contains green tea, because green tea is very expensive," Dr. Baumann said. "But I tell my patients just to drink green tea," an antioxidant.
"There is a certain kind of woman who obviously believes that if some product is more expensive, it has to be better," Dr. Thellman-Karcher said. "And, of course, what Upper East Side woman wants to go into a Duane Reade and be seen buying Purpose or Vaseline?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: TURNING BACK TIME -- La Prairie says this product can improve the skin's elasticity. (Victor Lopes for The New York Times)(pg. 1); FIGHTING GRAVITY -- Z. Bigatti's serum sells for $195. (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); DERMATOLOGY (77%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (76%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); ENZYMES (65%); ENZYME INHIBITORS (60%); BIOLOGICAL FACTORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (56%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (52%) KENTUCKY, USA (76%); MINNESOTA, USA (56%); ALPS (56%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



358 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
What Will It Take To Energize Deal-Making?

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
MERGERS and acquisitions have slowed considerably.
 From a record high of $1.7 trillion in 2000, M.& A. activity fell by more than half in 2001, to $758 billion, according to Thomson First Call. Last year, it fell to a bit more than $400 billion. And so far this year there have been only $139 billion in deals. 
 But stock market values are up over the last three months. And the Oracle Corporation recently started a hostile $5 billion all-cash bid for PeopleSoft Inc., which has been seeking to acquire J. D. Edwards & Company.
Are more deals around the corner? Tom Burnett, the president of Merger Insight, an affiliate of Wall Street Access, an independent brokerage firm, talked last week about the pace of deals. Following are excerptsfrom the conversation:

Q. Is the climate better for consolidation?

A. We are not expecting an upturn in M.& A. activity until the first quarter of next year. It is beginning to stabilize at the current level. The reason we are not expecting a rip-roaring recovery here is because corporate America does not have the confidence that the economy is going to grow. When the tax cuts kick in and we start getting growth of 2 percent to 2.5 percent, that confidence may come back. But M.& A. activity is the tail of the dog of overall economic activity and confidence.
One thing could change that outlook: the weak dollar could trigger a wave of European buying interest in the third and fourth quarters. But European economies are quite weak, so that may not happen.

Q. What do you make of the Oracle bid for PeopleSoft?

A. Oracle isn't making this kind of a move lightly. It would be the biggest deal they have ever made. Also, it is a cash offer, which suggests they think Oracle stock is undervalued. Larry Ellison the chief executive of Oracle is sitting with around $3 billion to $4 billion in cash, and at 1 percent interest it is sort of wasting away.
Ellison is telling us the software industry is ripe for a big turnaround, and that you want to grab the right companies at the right price. But he might be looking at a turnaround the rest of the corporate boardrooms don't see for another six months.
It's too early to say whether Oracle will win. PeopleSoft says it wants to pursue its J. D. Edwards deal. If Oracle wants to do it, they are going to have to jack their price for PeopleSoft up a lot.

Q. What effect, if any, are the accounting issues at Freddie Mac having on mergers in the financial services industry?

A. People are afraid to do deals because they don't know what's inside these companies. How can you make an intelligent bid on a bank, for example, until these issues on derivatives are resolved?
Freddie Mac's problems haven't helped in that regard. If there is a problem at Freddie Mac, that conceivably could shake out some mortgage-related companies that could become targets of bigger companies. Because Freddie Mac is such a big buyer of mortgages, the medium-size companies who sell mortgages will be without one of their biggest customers.

Q. Which sector is ripest for deals?

A. The energy sector is ripe for consolidation because natural-gas prices are going through the roof and companies with reserves perhaps cannot extract them as efficiently as the big guys can. You are going to see some very interesting M.& A. traffic in this area over the next six to nine months.
We are happy to see share prices of a company like Royal Dutch/Shell more than 30 percent off their lows. They now have a currency they can use to make acquisitions.
Companies like Burlington Resources, Kerr-McGee, Amerada Hess and Anadarko Petroleum could attract interest.

Q. Which European companies are likely to be acquisitive?

A. Aside from Royal Dutch, BP and the Royal Bank of Scotland are strong companies. Royal Bank is looking at a lot of companies, and they want to be a bigger presence in the United States. They have been rumored to be looking at FleetBoston Financial.

Q. Are there any other sectors where you think deals might get done?

A. There is going to be one big blockbuster deal in telecommunications involving one of the regional Bell companies and AT&T. And as a result of the changes in the Federal Communications Commission rules, we will see something in media.
And health care is interesting. I would expect some of the big drug companies, Johnson & Johnson, Eli Lilly or maybe Pfizer, to make targeted acquisitions in the biotechnology sector over the next 10 months. The biotechs can be looked at as the farm team for the major pharmaceutical companies.
Enzon is a company we have been looking at. It has a huge royalty arrangement with Schering-Plough, and it has four products in the market. We think it is ripe for being acquired over the near to medium term.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Burnett 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (92%); MERGERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); US DOLLAR (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (98%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (61%)

ORGANIZATION: MERGER INSIGHT (CO) 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (98%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (98%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (98%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (61%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (61%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (61%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (55%) BURNETT, TOM; GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



359 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1813 words

HEADLINE: Showdown for a Tool In Rights Lawsuits 

BYLINE:  By ALEX MARKELS 

 BODY:
IN a watershed case that could affect how multinationals do business in developing countries, a federal appeals court will consider on Tuesday whether the energy giant Unocal should stand trial in connection with human rights abuses that the government of Myanmar is accused of inflicting on villagers during construction of a natural-gas pipeline.
 The crucial question before the unusually large panel of 11 judges is whether to apply international legal standards that hold parties responsible for aiding and abetting human rights abuses. The case is in the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco. 
 The plaintiffs are a group of villagers from Tenasserim, a region in southeastern Myanmar, the country once known as Burma. They say Unocal paid the military to provide security for the project and supported the government, which forced villagers to help build the $1.2 billion pipeline in the 1990's and threatened those who refused with rape and other atrocities. Unocal denies the accusations. 
If the court allows the civil suit to go to a jury trial, "this will raise the stakes for multinationals that do business with repressive regimes," said William S. Dodge, an international law professor at the Hastings College of the Law in San Francisco. "There are plenty of repressive regimes around the world, and there are plenty of multinationals that do business with them. The question is, how far can a corporation like Unocal go in cooperating with such a regime before the company bears some legal responsibility?"
THE case is among a growing number based on the once-obscure Alien Tort Claims Act, a 1789 law originally intended to help prosecute international pirates in American courts. Since the early 1980's, it has been used to argue cases successfully against foreign military and police personnel accused of human rights abuses. More recently, human rights and labor groups have seized on it to do battle with oil, mining and other multinational companies that work with governments that they say engage in torture, genocide and similar violations of international law.
There have been more than a dozen alien tort cases filed against companies since the mid-1990's, but none have so far gone to a jury trial. Some have been dismissed on procedural grounds, while others are pending. The possibility of trials has raised concerns among both corporations and the Bush administration over potentially embarrassing testimony -- and worry that a verdict could set a precedent that encourages thousands of foreign plaintiffs to seek damages for crimes committed by their own governments.
"You get a perfect storm of sympathetic plaintiffs, trial lawyers and anti-globalization activists working together to bring these suits," said William A. Reinsch, the president of the National Foreign Trade Council, an industry group based in Washington. He cites cases like one recently filed against dozens of companies that did business in South Africa under apartheid. "It could be disastrous for global trade," he added.
Though there has not been a single verdict against them, companies are feeling the impact of the litigation, which they must increasingly factor into investment decisions.
"It's causing companies to run away from situations like Burma," said Errol P. Mendes, a law professor at the University of Ottawa and recently a co-author of "Global Governance, Economy and Law" (Taylor & Francis), which details the impact of such lawsuits on multinational companies.
He and others point to a variety of recent corporate decisions to demur or pull back from projects in countries where governments have been accused of human-rights abuses, including Nigeria, Indonesia and Sudan, as well as Myanmar.
Although Unocal, based in El Segundo, Calif., continues to do business in Myanmar, "this has created a great deal of uncertainty about future investing," said Charles O. Strathman, its vice president and chief legal officer. "It's not just the legal fees involved; it's also very disruptive and a big time commitment."
The negative publicity from such cases may be even more costly. Social-justice and environmental groups see the Unocal case as an example of globalization gone bad, inspiring protests on college campuses and campaigns to pressure school administrators to sell Unocal stock.
"Whether these companies prevail in a court of law, they are already losing in the court of public opinion," Professor Mendes said. "Just the launching of these lawsuits has a huge impact on companies' brand equity, which these days is their most important asset."
The suits are just one way to try to bring pressure on companies. In resolutions being put before corporate directors, shareholders are calling for companies to pull out of projects implicated in human-rights lawsuits. For example, after a shareholder resolution and negative publicity from a pending human-rights lawsuit, Talisman Energy in March sold its $770 million stake in an oil development project in Sudan. It had been accused of assisting Sudanese forces in an ethnic cleansing campaign against villagers near its oil fields.
"There was shareholder fatigue" in the investment, said David W. Mann, a senior manager for investor relations at Talisman, which is based in Calgary, Alberta, and listed on the New York Stock Exchange. He denied the suit's accusations.
Although a lawsuit filed against ChevronTexaco by villagers in Ecuador was dismissed last year by a federal judge, the company decided to end its oil development there last fall. The case is now scheduled to be heard in an Ecuadorian court. Various factors led to the decision to leave Ecuador, but the litigation "was not a positive indicator to say this is a place we want to continue to do business," said Edward B. Scott, vice president and general counsel for the company's overseas division. The threat of similar litigation, he said, "adds a further element of risk and makes us less competitive."
SECURITY experts regard such statements as signs that multinational companies based in the United States are increasingly worried about their liability for acts committed by host governments, which have long provided security and other services for their oil, mining and other projects.
While corporate officials emphatically defend their human-rights records overseas, "business leaders are getting very nervous about these lawsuits," said Catherine J. Boggs, a lawyer at Baker & McKensie in Chicago, who advises companies about security arrangements with local governments. "Some think the best way to deal with them is to try to repeal the law altogether, or at least modify it."
To that end, pro-trade groups and the Justice Department filed briefs in May in the Unocal case, arguing that the alien tort statute had been misapplied by plaintiffs and that such lawsuits could undermine American business interests and the war or terrorism. The lawsuit bears "serious implications for our current war against terrorism" and permits similar claims to be easily asserted against allies in that war, an assistant attorney general, Robert D. McCallum, wrote in the government's brief.
Despite increased pressure on judges to support the antiterrorism effort, legal experts say it is unlikely that the court will move to invalidate use of the alien tort statute in the Unocal case. Yet even if it advances to a jury trial, it may be difficult to prove that Unocal actively participated in abuse by Myanmar. "It's not to say that these acts weren't horrible, but the aiding and abetting by Unocal is not obvious," said Anthony J. Sebok, a professor at the Brooklyn Law School who specializes in tort law. "These are difficult allegations to prove because they have to show that Unocal knew precisely how its aid was being used to commit human rights abuses."
Yet company officials worry that the aiding-and-abetting standard, which can include "knowing practical assistance, encouragement or moral support" to the perpetrator of the abuse, is so broad that practically any involvement with the government of Myanmar could be misconstrued as complicity. "The investment itself could be considered moral support or assistance," said M. Randall Oppenheimer, a lawyer at O'Melveny & Myers in Los Angeles, who represents Unocal in the case. "It seems fundamentally unfair to hold people liable for a situation that they don't control."
The plaintiffs argue, however, that Unocal was well aware of the military's poor human rights record in Myanmar and should have known that its security forces would engage in brutal practices, like forcing villagers who lived in the path of the pipeline not only to relocate, but to help build it. Their lawyers cite a 1992 report by consultants who advised the company on the risks of doing business with the government of Myanmar. The report warned that the military "habitually uses forced labor to construct roads."
A lawyer who represents the plaintiffs, Katharine J. Redford of EarthRights International in Washington, said: "Their own consultants told them they could be implicated as a willing partner in the abuse. That's exactly our allegation."
EVEN if the suit fails to prove that such actions amounted to aiding and abetting Myanmar's military, legal experts say that potentially embarrassing evidence made public during a jury trial could embolden potential plaintiffs in other cases to come forward. "It's similar to what happened with tobacco," Professor Sebok said. "The very fact that they were able to see the corporate files raises the threat value, so the next time around there would be greater willingness to settle at some price."
While companies aggressively fight both the lawsuits and the statute on which they are based, many have also endorsed documents like the State Department's Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security. It outlines ways to ensure security for corporate operations and to prevent abuse -- to add human rights clauses to contracts with security firms, for example.
Some have also begun to work with organizations outside government. Executives at the Royal Dutch/Shell Group are working with members of Human Rights Watch, based in New York, to improve the human rights situation in Nigeria, where the company has been accused of assisting in abuses against members of a local opposition group. And Unocal has met with representatives of Amnesty International and recently allowed observers from the Collaborative for Development Action, an independent consulting group based in Boston, to visit the Myanmar pipeline and study its impact on the local people.
"It's a very cynical strategy," said Arvind Ganesan, director of the business and human rights program at Human Rights Watch, "because you end up with companies' trying to do the right thing, but also trying to ensure that there's no consequences for doing the wrong thing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters at Unocal's headquarters demonstrated in 2001 against its cooperation with the government of Myanmar. The government provided security for Unocal's pipeline project near the Thai border. (Agence France-Press/Getty, above; EarthRights International) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); TORTS (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (77%); TORTURE (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (76%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); GENOCIDE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); DAMAGES (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%) GAS (FUEL); SUITS AND LITIGATION; PIPELINES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; SEX CRIMES; LABOR; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNOCAL CORP 

INDUSTRY:  SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: MARKELS, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) MYANMAR (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%) MYANMAR

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



360 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2542 words

HEADLINE: A Family's 100-Year Car Trip 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
TALK about an interesting family reunion.
 This weekend, about 80 members of the Ford clan are converging here for the Ford Motor Company's centennial. The party, part public, part private, features music -- Beyonce Knowles, Toby Keith and Harry Connick Jr. are among the performers -- vintage Fords and a caravan of about three dozen original Model T's that have traversed America's back roads from California to Michigan for the celebration. And, as at most family get-togethers, pictures will be snapped, including what will be the largest Ford family photograph ever taken. 
 But times certainly could be better. 
The company lost $6.4 billion in 2001 and 2002. Sales are falling even as Ford, General Motors and the Chrysler Group of DaimlerChrysler are spending inordinate amounts of money on zero percent financing and sky-high rebates, and some analysts predict that one of the Big Three will disappear in the next decade under mounting pressure from the likes of Toyota and Honda. 
Ford stock has lost about two-thirds of its value in two years, and the company dividend has been cut by two-thirds -- sharply reducing the income of family members. 
As if that were not enough, environmental groups are planning protests during the party because Ford abandoned a five-year plan to improve the fuel economy of all those Explorers, Expeditions and Excursions rolling off assembly lines.
In some families, such problems might lead to some major fights on the reunion day. But for many members of the Ford family, which has stayed remarkably unified over the years, this is just how business works. 
You're up, rolling in profits. You're down, left for dead. Repeat. And again.
"It's so cyclical," said Anne Ford of Manhattan, a great-granddaughter of Henry Ford. "Ford was on top for so long and General Motors was not. Then you turn it around. We've gone through this a couple times, so we're all prepared. But you can't be too prepared."
Her son, Alessandro Uzielli, 36, a film producer and restaurateur who lives in Los Angeles, is not so accustomed to the boom-and-bust cycle. 
"Because I'm one of the younger generations, this time has probably been the toughest, as far as I can remember," Mr. Uzielli said. But the centennial is drawing the family closer, he said. 
Though most family members no longer live in southeastern Michigan, some still do, and the family name dominates the local landscape, from hospitals and museums to the Detroit Lions. The team is owned by William Clay Ford Sr., one of Henry Ford's three grandsons, and plays at the new Ford Field in Detroit.
And after more than two decades in which outsiders oversaw the business, there's a Ford at the helm of Ford Motor again. 
William Clay Ford Jr., 46, the chairman since 1999, added the title of chief executive in October 2001 after the disastrous tenure of Jacques A. Nasser, which included the debacle over rollovers of Firestone-equipped Ford Explorers and a misbegotten attempt to reinvent the company as something beyond just a carmaker.
Among both family members and rank-and-file workers, the latest Ford has a reservoir of good will, and at the company, there are some signs of progress: Ford reported $896 million in net income in the first quarter, and a plan to overhaul the company's car lineup is slowly taking shape. In an era of mercenary corporate chiefs, Mr. Ford is seen as a bringing a paternalistic sense of family to a company some workers call "Ford's." 
Anne Ford, who is a first cousin of William Clay Ford Jr., said, "We back Billy and whatever he's wanted to do so far."
"Billy's only been there two years," she added. "It's hard to turn the company around. People have to give him a chance."
Of course, family ties are complicated in the modern world, especially when the family shares ownership of a company that ranks fourth in the Fortune 500. Although Ford is a public company, the roughly 80 family members control 40 percent of the voting rights in the company through 70 million shares of Class B stock, but it is hardly evenly divided. Two surviving members of the third generation, William Clay Ford Sr. and his sister, Josephine F. Ford, own 40 percent of the Class B stock, according to Ford Motor's most recent proxy statement. Lynn F. Alandt, the daughter of Henry Ford's grandson, Benson Ford, who died in 1978, owns an additional 12.7 percent of the Class B stock. Edsel B. Ford II owns 7.1 percent of the Class B and Bill Jr. owns 4.6 percent. 
That means that the dividend cuts affect the family, which also owns millions of shares of common stock. William Clay Ford Sr., for instance, would get an annual dividend payment of $37.9 million if the dividend were still $1.20 a share, as it was in the late 1990's. Instead, at 40 cents a share, he gets $12.6 million. 
ALTHOUGH the family generally sticks together publicly, there have been tensions. Bill Jr. and Anne Ford's brother, the board member Edsel Ford II, were in a horse race for the chairmanship. Bill Jr. had years of experience in many parts of the company, while Edsel mainly worked with the company's dealers. 
It was a real struggle, said the historian Douglas Brinkley, who has written a new book about Ford, "Wheels for the World: Henry Ford, His Company and a Century of Progress" (Viking Press, 2003). "I was at a meeting to plan the centennial, an early planning meeting, when I started this book in '97," he said. "Edsel and Billy were there and they both were nasty to each other; they wouldn't even speak to each other." 
The family connections are more complex than they might seem at first glance. The recent rift with Firestone was personally painful for Bill Jr. Because his mother, Martha, is a Firestone, he is a great-grandson of both Henry Ford and Harvey Firestone, the founder of the tire company that is now a unit of Bridgestone of Japan. In an interview on his first day as chief executive, Bill Jr. recalled that he was scheduled to be the keynote speaker at a 2000 Firestone family reunion when the Explorer rollover problems surfaced: "I called up my mother and said, 'Mom, I can't go,' And she said, 'Do you think I shouldn't go?' And I said, 'No, no, you should go. People aren't going to expect you to know about Explorer details.' So she went, and my wife and children went."
In many of its dealings, the family zealously guards its privacy. So does the company, which declined to arrange interviews for this article with family members, including those who work for the company or serve on its board. Perhaps the greatest current success of the family, now stretching to six generations from the company's founding, is that it has generally kept disagreements to itself, perhaps partly because there are not many members of the adult generations
For Mr. Ford -- Bill Jr. -- even catching up with the cousins privately is fraught with legal complexities. 
"Obviously, I have to be extremely careful now that we're in this new world of disclosure," he said at a recent press briefing to discuss the centennial. "I can't tell them anything other than what's public."
Charlotte Ford, who is Anne Ford's sister, also lives in Manhattan, where both are well known. Both, too, have written books -- Charlotte Ford about etiquette and Anne Ford about raising a daughter with learning disabilities. 
Charlotte Ford said Bill Jr. had told the family at a gathering how new securities rules would alter family shop talk.
"He said, 'I'm really sorry, but I can only tell you so much,' " she recalled. "I think we all knew that was going to happen, but we were going to try and find out whatever we could anyway and hope that he slipped," she said, kidding. "But he's too good. He never slips."
The Fords stay connected through a family office in Detroit that compiles a quarterly newsletter. Unlike other family newsletters, this one includes economic updates. A few dozen family members meet in Detroit twice a year at the company headquarters and go out afterward for dinner at someone's house or at a country club in the wealthy suburb of Grosse Pointe. 
The company also provides a daily news-clipping service for family members. And Bruce Blythe, a former executive for Ford's European operations, acts as a family adviser to some of the Fords, Charlotte said.
"He's like a family adviser not only on financial stuff, but on different directions to take with Ford estates and what we should be doing and thinking about as individual families," she said. 
So far, the family has managed the monumental achievement of sustaining a corporation under family control in a brutally competitive industry. In fact, each of the first three generations produced a member who was vital to the company's survival. Now, with Bill Jr., it's the fourth's turn. 
The company, of course, started with Henry, a brilliant and eccentric inventor, an erratic businessman with a vitriolic personality who was given to anti-Semitism. He made a big splash by promising, if not fully delivering, a $5-a-day minimum wage in 1914 -- roughly double what Ford workers had been receiving, but he would later have his enormous personal security force fight to keep labor unions out of the company. 
His chief innovation was the creation of a utilitarian car for the masses, the Model T, but as he grew older he failed to accept that cars had evolved beyond mere modes of transport. Historians have said that his only child, Edsel, worldly where his father was inward, kept the company together as president despite his father. 
By the 1920's, Alfred P. Sloan, chief of the conglomerate known as General Motors, was revolutionizing the business, both in accounting and forecasting and making cars that were fashion statements: his G.M. started the industry's first corporate design department. 
Edsel Ford believed that his company needed to respond, but Henry spent much time belittling his efforts to push the company forward. 
"Without Edsel Ford's ability to take his father's devastating psychological blows, there would be no Ford Motor Company today," Mr. Brinkley said. "He's the one who had to convince his father that people wanted other car colors besides black. He convinced his father that styling did matter, that vehicles were becoming not just utilitarian but also a luxury item. That you had to move up from a Ford, that you couldn't compete with General Motors just selling a Model T. At G.M., you could go from Chevrolet to an Oldsmobile to a Cadillac."
Edsel, who died four years before his father, did create the Mercury division and was able to persuade Henry to acquire Lincoln. 
Henry Ford II, the eldest of Edsel's four children, ran Ford from 1945 to 1980 and was almost as titanic a figure in the company's history as his grandfather. Known in the press as Hank the Deuce, he was a jet-setting, thrice-married, gregarious autocrat. In firing the onetime Ford president Lee A. Iacocca -- who would go on to lead Chrysler -- he famously said, "Sometimes, you just don't like somebody."
Henry Ford II took over a company that estimated its accounts payable by weighing invoices on a scale.
"Ford didn't know until the end of the year how much they had made in profits versus how much they had lost," said Charles Hyde, a history professor at Wayne State University, nor did the company know "the cost of producing a particular model."
So Henry brought in a group of lieutenants known as the Whiz Kids -- military bureaucrats including Robert S. McNamara, who later served two presidents as defense secretary during the Vietnam War. 
(Bill Ford Jr. has assembled a group of Ford veterans as his lieutenants and says they are not whiz kids but "grumpy old men.")
After Henry stepped down in 1980, the family gave up day-to-day control for more than two decades. But with his autocratic ways also gone, the family, especially the daughters, began to have more discussions about the company and to feel more involved. "He was of the mind-set that women don't belong in the business, that they should be housewives and take care of the children," Charlotte Ford, his daughter, said. "Our generation never really participated in anything." 
And, in a contrast to Henry's high visibility, the family began to avoid the kinds of activities that would bring much personal publicity. 
"There are no wild and crazy guys in my generation," Charlotte Ford said. 
Since its beginnings, much about the business has not changed. "If I look back to when Henry Ford founded this company, we built cars in an assembly plant, we sold them through dealers, we serviced them through dealers, they had an internal combustion engine with four wheels," Bill Jr. said. "It's remarkable how Henry Ford would absolutely recognize this business and this industry."
Environmental groups are complaining about this very lack of evolution this week. Mr. Ford, who has long spoken out about issues like global warming -- not a popular topic in Detroit -- says he is pained by the attacks. 
"I would be lying to you if I said I wasn't kind of hurt by it, because to be singled out, when for manyyears I felt I was a lone voice in the wilderness, surprised me," he said. "There have been some business realities I've had to judge over the last couple years where we've had to make some choices," he added. Among the competitive disadvantages he faces are the expenses for 300,000 Ford workers and retirees who receive pension and health care benefits -- costs that do not burden foreign automakers like Toyota and Honda, which do not have a base of American retirees and have more positive environmental images.
Russell Long, executive director of the Bluewater Network, a San Francisco group that plans to protest at the centennial parties, said, "It's far more damaging having an alleged environmentalist spouting eco-rhetoric, breaking promises and fighting environmental regulations than dealing with a traditional enemy."
THE family has watched all this from a distance. 
Mr. Uzielli lived with his cousin Bill Jr. and Bill's wife, Lisa, in London for six months in the 1980's. At the time, Bill Jr. worked for Ford's European operations, and Mr. Uzielli was a college student.
"It's been such a priority for him," he said of his cousin's environmental streak. "I can only imagine how devastating it must be, given the criticism he's getting."
Mr. Uzielli is part of the fifth generation, which has dozens of members but only one, Elena Ford, working in the company. She is the director of business strategy in International Automotive Operations. 
In moving into other lines of work, Mr. Uzielli is more typical of his generation of Fords. In 1998, he produced an independent film, "Bongwater," and has a forthcoming documentary on extreme sports. But when it comes to cars, he sticks to Fords. Or Jaguars, but that's O.K., because Ford owns Jaguar.
"I just bought a 1966 Mustang convertible," he said. 
So, he was asked, was '66 the first year of the Mustang?
No, he said, " '64 1/2." -- passing a Ford I.Q. test. (The Mustang came out late in its first year, hence the fraction.) 
"If everything went to hell in a handbasket, the last thing we'd sell would be our Ford stock," he said. "There are very few families that have as much of a vested interest in the company that bears their name as we do. It races through our blood."

GRAPHIC: Photos: William Clay Ford Jr., right, was named the chairman of Ford Motor after a competition with his cousin, Edsel B. Ford II, left. (Peter Yates); Henry Ford in 1905 with his son, Edsel, who would convince him cars shouldn't come only in black. (U.P.I.); Henry Ford II in 1978. The colorful autocrat stepped down as company head two years later. (Associated Press); Anne Ford, left, and Charlotte, right, in 1964 with their mother. They are daughters of Henry Ford II. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); Henry Ford, right, with his son, Edsel, in 1934. While the father saw cars as purely utilitarian, the son saw them as luxury products, too. (The New York Times); William Clay Ford Jr., the chairman, with a GT40 last year. The company is overhauling its stable of cars. (Reuters)(pg. 12) Chart: "The Ford Lineage"Unlike most public companies, Ford is still under the effective control of a single extended family. William Clay Ford, Josephine F. Ford and Lynn Ford Alandt hold the greatest stakes in the company. After more than two decades in which outsiders oversaw the business, the family agreed in 2001 that William Clay Ford Jr. should replace Jacques Nasser as chief executive. Shown here is the Ford family through the fourth generation. HENRY FORD1863-1947Founder. President,1906-19 and 1943-45. EDSEL B. FORD1893-1943President, 1919-43. HENRY FORD II1917-87President, 1945-60.Chairman, 1960-80. BENSON FORD1919-78Chairman of the dealer policy board, 1956-78. JOSEPHINE F. FORD1923- WILLIAM CLAY FORD1925-Vice chairman, 1980-89.Chairman of the finance committee, 1987-95.Board member.Married to Martha Firestone. EDSEL B. FORD II1948-President of Ford Motor Credit Company, 1991-98.Vice president, 1993-98.Board member. Charlotte McDonnell Ford Anne Ford Benson Ford Jr. WILLIAM CLAY FORD JR.1957-Chairman, 1999-present.Chief executive,2001-present. LYNN FORD ALANDT1951- Walter Buhl Ford III Eleanor Clay Ford Josephine F. Ingle Alfred Bush Ford WILLIAM CLAY FORD JR.1957-Chairman,1999-present.Chief executive,2001-present. Martha Park Ford Elizabeth Hudson Ford Sheila Firestone Ford (Source: Ford Motor Company)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (91%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%) COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; AUTOMOBILES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: BEYONCE KNOWLES (57%); TOBY KEITH (57%) FORD FAMILY; HAKIM, DANNY

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



361 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MANHATTAN UP CLOSE; 
Recipe for a $22.55 Martini: Plump Olives and Panache

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ

 BODY:
Despite the economic woes sweeping New York, people are still spending money. In fact, the $22.55 martini has arrived.
 Guests at the elegant Pierre can now enjoy a martini, or a Cosmopolitan, a Manhattan or a sidecar, in their suite for that amount, which includes tip and tax. The hotel, which serves 300 to 500 martinis a week at its bar, has sold about 75 room-service drinks since it unfurled its "Room-Tini" service on April 3. 
 That sum will buy you 15 hot dogs at the cart just outside the Pierre. But The $22.55 martini -- described recently by Crain's New York Business, along with such other new hotel amenities as doggie day care at the Waldorf-Astoria and in-room spa treatments at the St. Regis -- involves a quick, sweeping ballet. About half an hour after a visitor in the Pierre's Park Suite ordered the drink, David Stanton, an assistant manager in room service, appeared in a dark blue suit from Barney's, small cart in tow. The cart held a silver shaker, a chilled glass, a pleasing little bucket of ice, a crisp linen napkin and a yellow tulip.
 "Do you prefer shaken or stirred?" said Mr. Stanton. He gave the drink a few stiff shakes high above his right shoulder, and, with a look of concentration on his comely face, quickly poured it into a glass dressed with starfruit and a long ribbon of lemon peel. Then he whipped a silver lid off a petite ceramic dish to reveal four plump green olives. The drink itself was as clear and fresh as a spring day after the rain.
 "Bad times, added services," said Gerhard Stutz, the hotel's director of food and beverage, who helped mastermind the new service. In the first two months of 2003, occupancy rates at Manhattan luxury hotels were 64.2 percent, 5.9 percentage points lower than in the same period last year.
 Sean Hennessey, director of the hospitality consulting practice at PriceWaterhouseCoopers, added, "There are two ways to compete: on price and on quality. Luxury hotels by their nature are not well-suited to compete on price."
 But not all businesses fight the bad economy the same way. Frank Visich, who with his wife owns a food cart across the street from the Pierre, introduced a "Recession Special" two years ago. It's two chicken dogs with American cheese and a canned drink, for five bucks. ERIKA KINETZ

GRAPHIC:  Photo: At the Pierre, the big-ticket Room-Tini. (Michael Nagle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (77%); HOTEL AMENITIES (77%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (75%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (71%); PETS (70%); PET CARE SERVICES (70%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



362 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CONEY ISLAND -- CITYPEOPLE; 
For a Kinsman of a Famed Sherpa, Mount Everest Is a Taxicab

BYLINE:  By CHRISTIAN DeBENEDETTI

 BODY:
He is related to a man who, 50 years ago, was regarded by some as the most important Central Asian since Genghis Khan. But like many immigrants, Tsering Norbu Sherpa lives a life far more mundane than his origins would have suggested.
 This 32-year-old former mountaineer is a grandnephew of Tenzing Norgay, the celebrated guide who joined Sir Edmund Hillary as the first climbers to reach the summit of Mount Everest. Today Tsering Norbu is a Brooklynite and newly minted New York cabdriver. 
 The hoopla over the anniversary of the Everest ascent, which took place on May 29, 1953, is winding down. And behind the wheel of his cab, Mr. Norbu approaches the cement wilderness of Manhattan with the awe he did the high Himalayas, his childhood home. 
 "To me, climbing mountains and driving a taxi is pretty much the same," he says. "They both have risk. You respect the mountains, you have less casualties. In the taxi, you must respect the flow. Otherwise you are going to get hit by some crazy drunk New Jersey driver."
 Mr. Norbu never tried to climb Everest himself; he was born with a heart defect that made such a foray risky. But he worked for three years for his celebrated relative's Himalayan Mountaineering Institute, training Indian soldiers for high-altitude duty. 
 "I miss mountains, and I love mountains, but what I don't like is the economics," said Mr. Norbu, who now lives in Coney Island. "If there are no tourists, no Westerners that come to climb, for trekking, for expeditions, we are dead."
 Mr. Norbu, who is a compact 5-foot-8 and resembles Jackie Chan, estimated that he is one of about 700 Sherpas in New York (the word refers to an ethnic group found mostly in Nepal and also serves as a surname). He has degrees in political science and economics from the University of Darjeeling in India. But jobs in finance at home were scarce. So six years ago, he and his wife, Nima, who last month had their second child, left Darjeeling for the United States.
 After two years in Washington, they moved to Coney Island. His first jobs were working in a seedy souvenir shop and peep show in Times Square and at a liquor store in Chelsea. But five months ago, encouraged by other Sherpa cabbies in the city, he saw a better opportunity in taxi driving.
 By coming to this country, he said: "I am trying to break up my cycle. My grandfather was a mountaineer. My parents were mountaineers. I grew up as a mountaineer. I don't want my kids to grow up as mountaineers. Sherpas are meant to be doctors, to be engineers, computer programmers. And why not? In the future, you might see a Sherpa baseball player. Or, in American football. O.K., maybe not in basketball. Sherpas are short people, you know."
 CHRISTIAN DeBENEDETTI

GRAPHIC: Photo: To Tsering Norbu Sherpa, driving a cab is like mountain climbing. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (93%); MOUNTAIN CLIMBING (91%); CLIMBING (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); HIKING (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (68%); BASEBALL (65%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (62%); ATHLETES (60%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (60%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (60%); BASKETBALL (60%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (50%); SPORTS (50%); ETHNICITY (50%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) HIMALAYAS (96%); MOUNT EVEREST (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); NEPAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



363 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Never-Never Lands for Executives

BYLINE:  By HUBERT B. HERRING 

 BODY:
"Never" is an awfully strong word, but that's what 13 percent of 212 executives of top companies said about the idea of working in New York City, according to a recent survey.
 Nearly half drew the line at packed-tight Tokyo, and nearly a quarter would never set briefcase in the freeway frenzy of Los Angeles; only a few rejected Chicago, San Francisco and London. 
 But is New York's cup 13 percent empty, or 87 percent full? Steve Mader, president of Christian & Timbers, the executive search firm that conducted the survey, looked at the sunny side (a rare Manhattan commodity this spring). "Just 13 percent rebuking New York as an option is a positive," he said. "It seems that the city is recovering from 9/11." HUBERT B. HERRING

GRAPHIC: Chart: Graph tracks the share of executives who said they would never want to work in each city for the following: San Francisco: 5%Los Angeles: 22%Chicago: 9%New York: 13%London: 4%Tokyo: 47% Graph tracks the sales of cookies and candy year-over-year change, weekly through May 18. NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSGraph tracks the number of first time customer year-over-year change, weekly from Nov. 2002-May2003. FOOD COSTSGraph tracks the change in consumer price index from May 2002-April 2003. PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGSGraph tracks the total number of personal bankruptcy filings since Dec. 2002. ONLINE SALESGraph tracks the total amount of online sales, dollars in billions, since Dec. 2002. HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATESGraph tracks the four-week moving average, daily for the following cities through June 7: NEW YORKCHICAGOLOS ANGELES (Sources: Christian & Timbers executive survey ; Information Resources cookies/candy ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics food costs ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; Smith Travel Research hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (67%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: CTPARTNERS EXECUTIVE SEARCH INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) CHRISTIAN & TIMBERS 

TICKER: CTP (NYSE MKT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (57%)

PERSON: HERRING, HUBERT B 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%) NEW YORK CITY; TOKYO (JAPAN); LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



364 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
A Sell-Off Cancels Most of the Week's Gains

BYLINE:  By JEFF SOMMER 

 BODY:
The stock market rose for most of last week but dropped on Friday, wiping out many of the gains for the week.
 Traders took profits on Friday after the University of Michigan released a report indicating that consumer sentiment declined precipitously in mid-June from its May levels. 
 Still, the earlier rallies were enough to ensure marginal increases for the week for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average; only the Nasdaq composite index was down.
 AT&T gained more than 7 percent for the week, and was the best performer among the Dow industrials. The company said that it was reducing debt and expanding services for both business and residential customers.
 For the week, the S.& P. 500 gained 0.85 points, or 0.1 percent, closing at 988.61. The Dow gained 54.33 points, or 0.6 percent, to 9,117.12. The Nasdaq fell 0.93 points, or 0.1 percent, closing at 1,626.49. For the year, the S.& P. 500 has risen 12.4 percent; the Dow is up 9.3 percent; and the Nasdaq has gained 21.8 percent. 
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note dropped to 3.11 percent from 3.35 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable. EmbraerNYSE: ERJThe Brazilian aircraft maker received a $3 billion order from JetBlue for 100 regional jets, only weeks after signing a $2.1 billion deal with US Airways for 85 jets.Friday's Close: $20.26Week's Change: +19.18%EST. '03 P/E: 11.76 Freddie MacNYSE: FREShares declined on concern that the ouster of top management and an earnings restatement would lead to increased regulation and higher capital requirements.Friday's Close: $50.47Week's Change: -15.70%EST. '03 P/E: 8.80 PeopleSoftNNM: PSFTPeopleSoft rejected Oracle's $5.1 billion hostile bid, contending that the offer undervalued the company and was intended to derail PeopleSoft's planned merger with J. D. Edwards.Friday's Close: $16.92Week's Change: -5.05%EST. '03 P/E: 33.77 ImClone SystemsNNM: IMCLEThe former chief executive, Samuel D. Waksal, was sentenced to seven years in prison for securities fraud and other crimes committed while orchestrating ImClone stock trades for himself and family members.Friday's Close: $34.92Week's Change: -9.04%EST. '03 P/E: -- Verizon CommunicationsNYSE: VZVerizon reduced prices for high-speed Internet connections as the phone and cable industries battle over Internet access and the revenue from monthly subscription fees.Friday's Close: $39.45Week's Change: +0.56%EST. '03 P/E: 14.46 Nautica EnterprisesNNM: NAUTThe Barington Companies, an investor group, nominated three candidates to Nautica's board to push for changes in executive pay and explore a possible sale of the clothing company.Friday's Close: $12.44Week's Change: +17.36%EST. '03 P/E: 12.97 GuidantNYSE: GDTA division of Guidant pleaded guilty to 10 felonies, admitting that it lied to the government and hid serious health problems, including 12 deaths, caused by one of its products.Friday's Close: $39.95Week's Change: -7.72%EST. '03 P/E: 19.71 First Essex BancorpNNM: FESXSovereign Bancorp agreed to buy First Essex Bancorp for about $400 million in cash and stock in order to expand in New England.Friday's Close: $46.88Week's Change: +26.26%EST. '03 P/E: 17.36 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%)

PERSON: SOMMER, JEFF

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



365 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: The Rosenbergs, 50 Years Later; 
Yes, They Were Guilty. But of What Exactly?

BYLINE:  By SAM ROBERTS; Sam Roberts, the deputy editor of the Week in Review, is the author of "The Brother: The Untold Story of the Rosenberg Case."

 BODY:
FIFTY years ago Thursday, Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were executed in the electric chair at Sing Sing. Their execution, originally set for 11 p.m. on Friday, June 19, 1953, was rescheduled for 8 p.m. to avoid conflict with the Jewish sabbath.
 "They were to be killed more quickly than planned," the playwright Arthur Miller wrote, "to avoid any shadow of bad taste." 
 A shadow lingers. 
"I grew up believing Ethel and Julius were completely innocent," Robert Meeropol, who was 6 years old in 1953, says of the Rosenbergs, his parents. "By the time I completed law school in 1985, however, I realized that the evidence we had amassed did not actually prove my parents' innocence but rather only demonstrated that they had been framed." 
After digesting newly released American decryptions of Soviet cables a decade later, Mr. Meeropol came to a revised conclusion. "While the transcriptions seemed inconclusive, they forced me to accept the possibility that my father had participated in an illegal and covert effort to help the Soviet Union defeat the Nazis," he writes in his new memoir, "An Execution in the Family: One Son's Journey" (St. Martin's Press). 
Of course, the Rosenbergs weren't executed for helping the Soviets defeat the Nazis, but as atom spies for helping Stalin end America's brief nuclear monopoly. They weren't charged with treason (the Russians were technically an ally in the mid-1940's) or even with actual spying. Rather, they were accused of conspiracy to commit espionage -- including enlisting Ethel's brother, David Greenglass, through his wife, Ruth, to steal atomic secrets from the Los Alamos weapons laboratory where he was stationed as an Army machinist during World War II. Mr. Greenglass's chief contribution was to corroborate what the Soviets had already gleaned from other spies, which by 1949 enabled them to replicate the bomb dropped on Nagasaki. (He confessed, testified against his sister and brother-in-law and was imprisoned for 10 years; Ruth testified, too, and was spared prosecution.)
As leverage against Julius, Ethel was also indicted on what, in retrospect, appears to have been flimsy evidence. The government didn't have to prove that anything of value was delivered to the Soviets, only that the participants acted to advance their goal.
"When you're dealing with a conspiracy, you don't have to be the kingpin, you have to participate," says James Kilsheimer, who helped prosecute the Rosenbergs. "You can't be partially guilty any more than you can be partially pregnant."
But to justify the death penalty, which was invoked to press the Rosenbergs to confess and implicate others, the government left the impression that the couple had handed America's mightiest weapon to the Soviets and precipitated the Korean War.
RECORDS of the grand jury that voted the indictment remain sealed. But we now know the Soviet cables decoded before the trial provided no hard evidence of Ethel's complicity. And Mr. Greenglass has recently admitted that he lied about the most incriminating evidence against his sister. The government's strategy backfired. Ethel wouldn't budge. The Rosenbergs refused to confess and were convicted.
"She called our bluff," William P. Rogers, the deputy attorney general at the time, said shortly before he died in 2001.
"They had the key to the death chamber in their hands," Mr. Kilsheimer says. "They never used it."
Whatever military and technical secrets Julius delivered to the Russians -- and it now seems all but certain that, as a committed Communist, he did provide information -- the Rosenbergs proved more valuable as martyrs than as spies. 
"The Soviets did win the propaganda war," said Robert J. Lamphere, an agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
The war isn't over. David Greenglass is 81; Ruth Greenglass is 79. They live under a pseudonym because their surname has become synonymous with betrayal of kin and country. "Perhaps," Mr. Meeropol says, "this is David and Ruth's final punishment."
On Thursday, Mr. Meeropol, who is 56, and his brother Michael, who is 60, (they took their adoptive parents' name) will attend a program at City Center in Manhattan to "commemorate the Rosenbergs' resistance" and benefit the Rosenberg Fund for Children, which Robert runs. 
Michael Meeropol is chairman of the economics department at Western New England College. Would any evidence ever convince him that his father was a spy? "If Soviet documents were verified as historically accurate, I'd certainly believe that," he replied.
Then what? How would he explain his father's behavior? "I would have to do some thinking about my parents being involved in dangerous things, but I can't judge people from the 1940's," he said. "He's not in the Army. He has bad eyesight. He can't make the contribution that others were making. I could argue that this was a way of doing it."
To this day, plenty of people would argue that he's wrong.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert, left, and Michael Rosenberg in June 1953. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); TESTIMONY (88%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); INDICTMENTS (74%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (73%); LAWYERS (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); WORLD WAR II (71%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); WRITERS (71%); TREASON (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (57%) ESPIONAGE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, JULIUS (1918-53); ROSENBERG, ETHEL (1915-53); MEEROPOL, ROBERT; MEEROPOL, MICHAEL; ROBERTS, SAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%) UNITED STATES; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



366 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Losers All; 
'Egalitarian Recession' Keeps Anger At Bay

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
WITH its combination of slow growth, rising unemployment and falling wages, today's economy has escaped definition. One commentator has called it the "new stagnation," a play on the new economy; another prefers "the job-loss recovery," to signalthat it is worse than the jobless one of the early 90's.
 But perhaps the best way to think of the current situation, with its contradictory indicators, is as the darker version of the Goldilocks economy of the late 90's, a term that was used then to denote a just-right balance of growth -- hot enough to bring prosperity but cold enough to keep inflation down. In today's version, by contrast, the economy seems like a lukewarm bowl of mush. 
 The numbers do seem to tell two different stories. On the one hand, the job market is mired in its longest hiring slump since the Depression and its deepest in 20 years. Wages have fallen behind inflation for most people, and employers are forcing workers to pay more of their health care costs. 
And yet: Even at a 9-year high of 6.1 percent, the unemployment rate remains just slightly below its average of the last 25 years; so many people were working when the downturn began that even a prolonged fall-off of jobs has not led to sky-high unemployment. The price of houses continue to increase, allowing families to supplement their income by refinancing their mortgages. In the last three months, stocks have surged. Americans, according to polls, remain more optimistic about the economy today than they were a decade ago, during more difficult times. "It is a really confusing picture," said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center, a polling and research group.
One reason for the apparent contradictions is that this downturn has been unusually long and broad but has never deteriorated into a national crisis. It has touched almost every region and demographic group, without falling disproportionately on any of them. White collar, blue collar, the Rust Belt and the coasts -- every sector feels sluggish but none feels dead. 
"It's a much more egalitarian recession," said Lawrence Katz, an economics professor at Harvard, comparing the current slump with those in the past.
The situation has flummoxed political strategists, who are trying to figure out if the economy will dominate the 2004 elections. It unsettles families, many of them making small cuts in their budgets as they buy a new car or house. Even the committee of academic economists that determines the turns of the business cycle is stumped. The body has not yet announced an end date for the 2001 recession, despite a year and a half of growth, because the data remain so mixed.
"Consumers see some good parts of the economy -- low inflation, low interest rates -- and some bad parts -- unemployment and the lack of wage growth," said Richard T. Curtin, director of surveys at the University of Michigan. "And they're spending just enough to keep the economy just growing."
The bipolar nature of the economy is affecting people in ways that previous booms and busts did not.
The percentage of Americans moving from one state to another fell last year to the lowest level since at least the 1970's, according to Economy.com, a research company. Despite the rising unemployment, few people chose to seek out a better job market than their current hometown. This slump has not produced the regional horror stories that captured people's attention in previous decades and created exoduses from the Midwest and New England to the Sun Belt, and from California to the interior West.
Because white-collar layoffs are now an accepted part of the business world, professionals are as battered as the working class. Nor are there notable differences between immigrants and native-born workers. Joblessness has risen by roughly equal amounts for both groups, according to the Urban Institute in Washington. 
College graduates remain much more likely to be employed than high-school dropouts, but since early 2001 the gap has narrowed. At the University of North Carolina, for example, just 15 percent of seniors had a job waiting for them on graduation day last month, half the usual proportion.
"For high-school dropouts, this does not look like a deep recession," Professor Katz said. For college graduates, it does. 
One of the few ways that the downturn has concentrated its pain is that compared with other recent slumps, unemployment has tended to last longer during this recession. That means joblessness has touched fewer workers, however, since a greater share of today's jobless were also out of work three months ago.
In fact, just 32 percent of Americans say they are worried about a major wage earner in their house losing a job, according a recent Newsweek poll. In October 1991, when the job market was actually better, 44 percent of people said yes to the same question.
Other measures of the nation's mood show similar attitudes. In the most recent Gallup Poll, 31 percent of those surveyed called economic conditions "poor." In late 1992 -- about 18 months after the economy began growing again -- almost 50 percent gave that answer.
More than one-third of Americans expect the next five years to bring "continuous good times," the University of Michigan reported Friday. In the downturns of the 1980's and the early 90's, that sanguine group shrank to one-fifth of the population, and in the mid-70's less than one-tenth of Americans were so optimistic.
In part, the booms of the 80's and 90's have caused many Americans to see good times as the new norm, replacing old worries about falling behind Japan and Europe. The continued struggles of other nations, even relative to the United States, add to Americans' confidence, opinion experts say.
Many people also have concrete reasons to emphasize the positive. Despite a fall in inflation-adjusted pay over the last year, most families make more than they did five years ago, a boast they could not make a decade ago. The median house price and the Standard & Poor's 500 index are both twice as high as they were in 1995.
At some point, however, the leftover shine from the 1990's will fade if it is not replaced with a new coat of prosperity. 
Although the unemployment rate is about average, it obscures a harsher reality. A large number of the long-term jobless have stopped looking for work, making them ineligible for the government's definition of unemployment, economists say. The fuller picture reveals the labor market to be as bad as it was in the early 90's, when the unemployment rate topped 7 percent.
The long slump has already caused people to worry more about their future and wonder how they will pay for retirement and health care, said Mr. Kohut of the Pew Research Center. Many people in their late 50's and early 60's have returned to work in the last years, having decided that they needed more money than they had expected. 
"The concerns aren't so much about the here and now," Mr. Kohut said. "It's more about these big costs down the road." 
Of course, those big costs will eventually become a part of the here and now. On its current path, the economy will force many people to trim their expectations in order to pay the bills. Widespread feelings of optimism and prosperity rarely survive such changes.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Laurent Cilluffo) Chart/Map: "Sharing the Pain"In the last couple of years, the number of jobshas fallen nearly 2 percent across the nation, with only a handful of states showing employment growth. PERCENT CHANGE IN U.S. NONFARM EMPLOYMENT, FEB. 2001-APR. 2003, OVERALL (RIGHT), BY STATE (BELOW) Some sectors are faring better than othersMost industries are suffering, though the manufacturing sector is doing the worst. For those industries showing gains, the improvement is only modest. LOSSES CONSTRUCTION% CHANGE IN EACH SECTOR: -0.85% RETAIL% CHANGE IN EACH SECTOR: -13.50% MANUFACTURING% CHANGE IN EACH SECTOR: -2.50% TRANSPORTATION% CHANGE IN EACH SECTOR: -6.94% INFO SERVICES% CHANGE IN EACH SECTOR: -11.12% GAINS FINANCIAL SERVICES% CHANGE IN EACH SECTOR: 2.46% HEALTH CARE% CHANGE IN EACH SECTOR: 6.37% FEDERAL GOVT% CHANGE IN EACH SECTOR: 0.26% LEISURE/HOSPITALITY% CHANGE IN EACH SECTOR: 0.91% STATE GOVT% CHANGE IN EACH SECTOR: 2.08% LOCAL GOVT% CHANGE IN EACH SECTOR: 3.60% Chart shows total number of jobs in selected economic sectors. (Sources: Haver Analytics; Bureau of Labor Statistics) Map of the United States highlighting states with losses and gains in employment. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); ELECTIONS (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); HOME PRICES (64%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (61%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



367 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Hopes of Zoo Love Affair Woo Memphis 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, June 11 

 BODY:
Talk about performance anxiety.
 It would be enough, one might think, to ask Le Le and Ya Ya, the two giant pandas who arrived to a delirious welcome at the city zoo here a few weeks ago, to defy the spotty history of panda pregnancies in America and do what is supposed to come naturally. 
 Should the pandas make love, they could also make history: only one giant panda cub has been born and survived in captivity in the United States -- Hua Mei, a female born in 1999 at the San Diego Zoo -- and she was conceived through artificial insemination.
Memphis has even bigger hopes for its panda pair: a giant lift for its civic self-image on the order of securing another sports franchise and an infusion of cash from tourists eager to see the bamboo-gobbling pandas cavort in between their famously frequent snoozes.
"We need them to be healthy and active, and do their thing by bringing in people," said Karl A. Schledwitz, a politically connected zoo board member who came up with the idea of luring pandas to Memphis in 1996. "It's very important." 
How important? A University of Memphis economist -- hired by the zoo, of course -- estimates that the two pandas could be responsible for upward of $1.3 billion in added spending at local hotels, restaurants and other attractions, $400 million in extra income, 23,000 new jobs and $87 million in tax revenue.
Emphasis on the "could."
Yet to judge from the throngs of eager oglers at the zoo despite a downpour today, the panda payday may not be entirely pie-in-the-sky.
As Le Le and Ya Ya lolled, taking turns playing with their trainers in exchange for bamboo leaves and grain-meal-and-apple mush treats, Suzanne Martin, 43, had her 3-year-old daughter, Grace, and another girl in tow. It was the other way around, really: Grace and her friend dashed back and forth from the glass-walled, air-conditioned apartments where the pandas had sought refuge to the carousel with a Chinese theme to the gift shop packed with stuffed pandas.
"They both know they're adopted from China," Ms. Martin, a Memphis resident, said of the two girls, "and they keep saying, 'The pandas come from China like us,' so we keep coming back." This was their third trip.
"It finally dawned on me, a zoo membership would be a smart idea," she added. All told, she had spent about $200 on panda paraphernalia.
In truth, this city caught panda fever years before the animals arrived. The zoo's former director, Roger Knox, suggested somewhat hyperbolically in 2000 that obtaining pandas could be "on the same level as getting an N.F.L. team."
Mr. Knox, who was in the throes of raising money for the panda project, knew how to push his audience's buttons. Getting a professional football team has proven beyond Memphis's grasp in two tries, and remains a sore point for a city whose only major sports team is the Grizzlies of the N.B.A., late of Vancouver -- an import of somewhat lesser note.
Mr. Schledwitz, a real estate developer and associate of James R. Sasser, the Democrat and former senator who was named ambassador to China in 1995, headed the panda procurement effort after learning something from his friend about the delicate international politics involved.
Only about 1,000 pandas are believed to be in the wild in China, and no more than 110 are in zoos and nature centers around the world. In the United States, there are three pandas at the San Diego Zoo, two at the National Zoo in Washington and two at Zoo Atlanta. Sojourns abroad are limited to 10 years, after which the coveted animals are returned to China. Several Chinese ministries must endorse a proposed loan, and in the end China's State Council must approve it.
The full-court diplomatic press that Memphis mounted included appeals from Bill Clinton and Al Gore, Senators Bill Frist and Fred Thompson of Tennessee, and Frederick K. Smith, the chairman of Federal Express, that is based here.
Mr. Schledwitz said he also studied the city's ill-fated effort to land a football franchise. "I always felt, in hindsight, that had Memphis built a new football stadium as was requested, we'd have ended up with an N.F.L. team," he said.
Indeed, the Memphis Zoo did not wait for the Chinese to approve its application before designing and building a $15.5 million "China" exhibit, complete with pagodas, a crooked bridge and temperature-controlled artificial boulders to keep Le Le, 5, and his intended mate, 3-year-old Ya Ya, cool in the Memphis summer and warm in the winter.
The investment paid off: Chinese diplomats who visited the zoo's new installation were impressed by the concern for authenticity, zoo officials said.
"They've done a phenomenal job," said David L. Towne, president of the Giant Panda Conservation Foundation. "It's a small zoo and a small community, but they really got behind this."
The city's unending push to become a "world-class city" took a leap forward on April 7, when the two pandas arrived aboard a specially decorated FedEx airliner to red-carpet treatment.
So far, zoo officials say they could not be more pleased. In six weeks, attendance has jumped by 46 percent, and more than 150,000 people have paid an extra $3 to see the pandas. The special fee helps defray a $1.2 million annual payment to the Chinese government, and subsidizes other conservation programs including bamboo farms.
The impossible-to-miss gift shop at the end of the panda exhibit, meanwhile, has generated nearly $300,000 more in that time, much of it for stuffed pandas, key rings, magnets and other trinkets that were made, appropriately enough, in China.
Hannah Purtle, 6, who had endured a two-hour car ride from Little Rock, Ark., was so moved by Ya Ya that she persuaded her parents to buy her a stuffed panda the same size as her well-worn koala. She instantly named it Cuddly and buried her blonde ringlets in its fur.
Despite the eye-catching economic impact projections and the buoyant early returns, the zoo's director, Charles Brady, says the zoo itself expects to lose a few million dollars on the pandas' 10-year stay in Memphis. Expenses -- not just bamboo, but salaries for four full-time zookeepers and two Chinese veterinarians -- will run about $30 million. And after two years, Dr. Brady said, he expects the pandas' drawing power to fall off sharply.
Should nature take its course, however, the zoo could reap dividends, Mr. Schledwitz said. "There is pressure on them to perform," he said, "and certainly we're hoping down the road that they reproduce, because it'll be another wave of attention."
To that end, the zoo is exploiting the latest in panda procreation science -- a field that has seemingly tried everything, including hormone supplements for females, Viagra for males and "panda porn" (videotapes of copulating pandas), generally with poor results.
Ya Ya is expected to reach sexual maturity later this year, meaning the earliest that she and Le Le could mate would be next spring, Dr. Brady said. He added that the zoo would give the pandas some time, perhaps two or three years, before resorting to artificial insemination.
He was loath to make any promises. After all, the pandas, who are from different parts of China, can smell and see each other through cage doors, but they have yet to be formally introduced.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ya Ya, this 3-year-old female, arrived with Le Le, a 5-year-old male.; Sarah Purtle helped her daughter Hannah, 6, pick a toy panda on Wednesday at the Memphis Zoo gift shop. (Photographs by Rollin Riggs for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (91%); MAMMALS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); SPORTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); JOB CREATION (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (58%) ZOOS; PANDAS; REPRODUCTION (BIOLOGICAL); ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION 

ORGANIZATION: MEMPHIS ZOO 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (90%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



368 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Israelis and Palestinians Hold Overnight Talks on Security 

BYLINE:  By GREG MYRE 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Sunday, June 15 

 BODY:
After a week of ferocious bloodshed, Israel and the Palestinians held top-level security talks into the early hours of this morning in a bid to calm the region and salvage an international peace plan.
 The main focus was a proposal for Israeli troops to pull back from volatile areas in the northern Gaza Strip and for Palestinian security forces to move in and take control. 
 The United Stateshas been putting pressure on the two sides to meet, and the American ambassador to Israel, Daniel C. Kurtzer, played host to the talks at his home outside Tel Aviv, according to Israeli news reports. Also, an American team, including Assistant Secretary of State John S. Wolf and David F. Satterfield, a Middle East specialist at the State Department, was arriving as part of a mission to monitor the peace plan, known as the road map. 
But with the latest surge in violence, the most urgent priority was to halt the fighting. More than 30 Palestinians and more than 20 Israelis have been killed over the last week, one of the highest weekly tolls since the Palestinian uprising began 32 months ago.
On Saturday, a 19-year-old Palestinian was shot and killed in the West Bank city of Nablus during a stone-throwing clash with Israeli troops, Palestinians said. An Israeli military source said the troops shot a young man when he tried to climb on an Israeli armored vehicle. Also, the military said it arrested a Palestinian man in the West Bank town of Tulkarm and discovered two belts with explosives that were intended to be used by suicide bombers.
Much of the recent fighting has been concentrated in northern Gaza, where Palestinian militants killed four Israeli soldiers a week ago, and the militant Islamic Hamas movement has repeatedly fired rockets on the Israeli town of Sederot, just outside Gaza's northeastern boundary. Since Tuesday, Israel has carried out seven helicopter strikes against Hamas militants and a suspected arms depot in and around Gaza City.
Efforts to implement the initial stages of the peace plan, which was formally inaugurated at a summit meeting in Jordan just 10 days ago, appeared to be on hold as the sides worked on security arrangements.
Muhammad Dahlan, the Palestinian security chief, met Saturday night with an Israeli delegation that included Maj. Gen. Amos Gilad, who is responsible for overseeing the West Bank and Gaza, according to the Israeli media. As the talks stretched past midnight, there was no immediate word on whether they had made progress.
Israelis officials say they are ready to withdraw troops from parts of Gaza as long as the Palestinian forces could prevent attacks against Israeli targets.
The proposed Israeli-Palestinian security talks were complicated by the absence of the Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, who was in neighboring Jordan receiving medical treatment for an eye ailment, Palestinian sources said.
Meanwhile, Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, gathered the Palestinian security officials at his compound Saturday in the West Bank city of Ramallah. Afterward, Mr. Dahlan said the Palestinians would be willing to move into areas vacated by the Israeli forces under certain conditions. The Palestinians, he said, wanted "Israeli commitments to withdraw from these territories, an end to Israeli assassinations, and American guarantees that the Israelis will not come back."
The Israelis and Palestinians have not held high-level talks since the June 4 summit meeting in Aqaba, Jordan, which was attended by Mr. Abbas, Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel and President Bush.
The visiting American team was expected to have meetings with both sides, and Mr. Wolf planned to see Mr. Sharon on Monday, Israel radio reported. Also, an Egyptian delegation was scheduled to hold talks today in Gaza with Hamas, which has rejected the peace plan and continued to attack Israel.
The Palestinian security forces have yet to carry out a major crackdown against Palestinian militants since the fighting began in September 2000, and Mr. Abbas says he wants to use persuasion rather than force. It was not clear how the Palestinian security forces would respond if Israel withdrew from northern Gaza and Hamas militants tried additional attacks.
Mr. Sharon has made it clear that the Israeli Army would continue to single out Hamas members until the Palestinian leadership was prepared to rein in the militants.
In the latest Israeli helicopter attacks, one Hamas member was killed Friday night in Gaza City when missiles struck his car, and more than 20 Palestinians were wounded. In a second attack, Israel struck a warehouse where Hamas stored missiles, according to the Israeli military.
American officials have not ruled out the possibility of expanding Mr. Wolf's group to include monitors from Western Europe or Russia, whose governments helped develop the peace plan. The administration said the initial group had about 10 people and that it included intelligence officials and diplomats.
No timetable has been set for Mr. Wolf to complete his mission and return to the United States, said Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman.
The Bush administration has said that Secretary of State Colin L. Powell will visit Jordan this coming week for an economic conference. But his schedule would also allow time, officials said, to visit Israel for more meetings with Israelis and Palestinians if necessary.
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said Friday that Mr. Powell and Mr. Wolf would seek to "help the parties, even in the darkest moments, find their way to remember the vision to peace."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Palestinian helped an elderly man over a barricade yesterday in the West Bank city of Hebron, where the Israeli Army has imposed a curfew. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HAMAS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); SHOOTINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); RELIGION (50%) PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%) MYRE, GREG 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (99%); JORDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) ISRAEL; GAZA STRIP

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



369 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1834 words

HEADLINE: EUROPE DRAFTING ITS CONSTITUTION 

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, June 12 

 BODY:
It will be much less than a United States of Europe. But it will be more than the distillation of five decades of treaties into one document. 
 For 16 months, Europe's most important and exclusive club has struggled to draft its first constitution. The process has been awkward and unpredictable, ambitious and timid, as delegates from the 15 member nations of the European Union and the 10 that are to join next year fight to protect their countries' national interests even as they agree to cede bits of sovereignty. 
 Philadelphia it ain't. 
The founding fathers came together in 1787 for a Constitutional Convention to forge a document that created a national identity and institutionalized the sovereignty of the American people in one nation-state. The 105 delegates who made up the Convention on the Future of Europe tried to do something much more modest: codifying common ground among long-established states that will give their union more of a logical structure -- and perhaps more power -- as they expand eastward. 
"Until now, Europe was mainly associated with a common market," Ana Palacio, Spain's foreign minister and a delegate representing her government, said in an interview. "Now Europe will be more and more a place of citizenship. Now people will associate Europe with a constitution." 
Indeed, one article in the draft constitution states, "Every national of a member state shall be a citizen of the union." When the union expands, that means a mega-Europe of 450 million citizens, larger than any population mass except for China and India, and an economy of more than $9 trillion, close to that of the United States.
The proposed constitution also states that European Union law will have primacy over that of member states. It simplifies voting rules and spells out areas like trade policy in which the union will have full authority and other areas to be shared with the member states, including justice, transportation and economic and social policy. 
It will also set up a new structure for an organization that was created for only 6 states and will soon have 25, with two permanent presidents, one foreign minister, a stronger administrative arm and a Parliament with expanded power to pass more legislation. 
But for many participants in the process, including Giuliano Amato, a former Italian prime minister and a constitutional law expert who is one of two vice presidents of the convention, the proposed constitution is lacking because it fails to create a common foreign and security policy.
"I'm not entirely satisfied," he said in an interview. "Too many member states are defending themselves instead of sharing power at the European level to make things better. It's each state beyond the constitution. That's why I'm not even sure we are entitled to call it a constitution."
 On Friday, despite deep disagreements within the delegation, Valery Giscard d'Estaing, the former French president who is the convention's president, told the final plenary session in Brussels that the convention had adopted a historic first draft. The forum rose for the union's anthem, Beethoven's "Ode to Joy," and toasted their endeavor with Champagne. 
With over 400 articles, the constitution is very much a work in progress. Mr. Giscard d'Estaing will present it to a summit meeting of the member heads of state in Greece next week. Then, in October, it will go into intergovernmental review, in which each member state has the right to demand changes. Each parliament -- including those of next year's 10 newcomers -- must ratify the document before it comes into force. Some countries, like Ireland and Denmark, will have national referendums -- as required by their constitutions. 
Even the pope has weighed in, lobbying -- thus far successfully -- for a specific reference in the text to God and Europe's Christian heritage. After all, the union's debt to the "civilizations of Greece and Rome" and later "by the philosophical currents of the Enlightenment" are mentioned. 
One of the main challenges to forming a more perfect European Union is one that the American founding fathers confronted: how to find a way for big states and small states to share power. France and other big states would like a strong president from a large country who would reflect their views, an idea that is anathema to the smaller states. Spain has vowed to fight to retain complex voting rules that give it power disproportionate to its population. (Spain has 27 votes in the union, only 2 fewer than Germany, which has more than twice its population.) 
Britain, which is skeptical about creating anything that looks like a European state, is demanding the absolute right for any member nation to veto decisions on foreign policy and taxation. Sometimes the big-small divide is trumped by history. Germany, for example, is more inclined to create a federal structure that would more closely resemble a United States of Europe. 
Another issue yet to be resolved is how to make the union more accountable to its citizens by opening the decision-making process to public scrutiny. "Right now, if my prime minister goes to Brussels and makes decisions behind closed doors, I as a parliamentarian cannot hold him to account because I only know the outcome, I don't know the process," said Gisela Stuart, a member of the British delegation and of the European Parliament. "It's the same with the ministers. They can tell me anything." 
The new constitution will introduce a single foreign minister to give the union a single actor on the international stage. It will also create a permanent president, elected by member heads of state, who will serve up to a five-year term to replace an unwieldy system in which the presidency rotates among member states every six months. 
Already there is intense speculation that Joschka Fischer, the German foreign minister as well as a convention delegate, is eager for the job of European foreign minister, even though it will probably not be created before 2006. In recent weeks, he suddenly began to talk to Anglophone journalists in English, and friends in Brussels said that he had asked them where one might want to live there. 
But there will continue to be two presidents indefinitely -- one for the Council of the European Union, which consists of the heads of state of each member country, another for the European Commission, a kind of executive body that is more federal in nature and tends to take the smaller states more seriously. 
"You have an animal with two heads," said Mr. Amato, who favored a proposal to merge the two presidencies in 2015. "Can an animal with two heads survive for long?" 
Mr. Giscard d'Estaing answered yes. "We still have seven monarchies in the system," he said in an interview. "Some went through violent revolutionary uprisings, like France. Some were under the Communist rule for 50 years, 70 years. So if we try for an oversimplified system it cannot work." 
The draft constitution clearly states that "member states shall actively and unreservedly support the union's common foreign and security policy in a spirit of loyalty and mutual solidarity" and shall "refrain from action contrary to the union's interests or likely to impair its effectiveness."
But that was language picked up from previous treaties and did not prevent the union's deeply painful split on Iraq, which pitted countries like France and Germany against Spain and Britain. 
In a setback to those who wanted a more powerful union to help counterbalance the United States when it comes to issues like foreign policy, defense and taxation, each country -- even Luxembourg, with a population of 440,000 -- has the right to veto any decision on foreign policy and defense. 
In one of the most ambitious expansions of the union's authority, the draft constitution also would create a European public prosecutor to combat terrorism and cross-border crimes like corruption, fraud and people-trafficking. It simplifies legislative and legal procedures and extends decision-making by majority vote, particularly in areas like justice, law enforcement, immigration, asylum, energy and the annual European Union budget. 
The draft document also gives the union a "legal personality" that would allow it to sign international treaties. A solidarity clause will require member states to provide mutual assistance in case of terrorist attack. The constitution also explicitly bans slavery (which the original United States Constitution did not) and the death penalty (which was never banned in the American Constitution). There is even an exit clause so that a member state can secede from the union if it chooses. 
On defense matters, the constitution pledges enhanced "structured cooperation" for "more demanding tasks," but does not pledge military resources for common purposes. Not surprisingly, no effort was made to coax France and Britain to give up their seats as permanent members of the United Nations Security Council. 
Underscoring just how important national differences remain, the constitution will be published in the union's 11 current official languages -- 21 when the 10 new members are admitted next year. There was no agreement on what to call the new union once it has a constitution, so delegates deleted the space in the draft's preamble where a new name would have appeared.
Even the inclusion of the dreaded word "federal" as a description of way the union would function was found to be objectionable, particularly by Britain. It was replaced by anodyne phrases like "united in an ever closer fashion." 
"The reality is that you have different visions for Europe," Jean-Luc Dehaene, the former Belgian prime minister who is a convention vice president, said in an interview. "So never fight for words. Just because someone doesn't want to name the baby, you don't throw out the baby." 
Even in the best of circumstances, the constitution will not come into effect for years. So it will not solve the immediate problem of how to absorb the 10 new countries next year. With the expansion, the population of the European club will increase by 20 percent, but the average wealth per person will fall by about 13 percent because most of the newcomers are relatively poor. 
That means that the new union, which started out as a club for the rich, will have to find ways to balance the interests of a country like Luxembourg, which has a per capita gross domestic product of nearly $43,000, with a country like Lithuania, which has a per capita G.D.P. of $3,200. 
The constitution also will not do away with the 80,000 pages of European Union laws and regulations that dictate what members can and cannot do in some of the biggest and smallest areas of life. The rules govern such things as how to make cars and cigarettes, how corporations carry out acquisitions, how high a budget deficit a country is allowed to have, who is a dentist, what preservatives can be used to make beer, how many hours a week people can work and when hunters can shoot small birds. 

GRAPHIC:  The European Parliament will have expanded legislative powers, together with the so-called Council of Ministers, a council of national governments. More lawmaking responsibilities would be turned over to the European Parliament. NEXT STEPSThe European Union's heads of state will gather at a summit meeting in Greece on June 20 to discuss the draft constitution. In October, foreign ministers of member states will come together to hammer out the details and to work out conflicts over how much power would remain with individual governments and over how much power would vary between big states and smaller ones. Each current and future member country holds veto power over each element of the constitution. Convention members are hoping to complete the negotiation process by next spring. Then the countries will have to ratify the constitution. The target for putting it into effect is early 2006. Map of Europe highlights the countries according to the following categories:Current member countriesTo join in 2004Candidate countries(pg. 6)Photo: The president of the European Convention, Valery Giscard d'Estaing of France, right, and his vice presidents, Jean Luc Dehaene of Belgium, left, and Giuliano Amato of Italy, toasted the end of the convention on Friday. (Reuters)(pg. 6) Chart/Map: "A Blueprint for Europe"A draft constitution for the European Union was prepared by the 105-member Convention on the Future of Europe, with 102 delegates from the European Commission, the European Parliament, the national parliaments of the member countries, the 10 future member countries, and the three candidate countries. In addition to the 102 delegates, the convention is presided over by Valery Giscard d'Estaing of France, and two deputies, Giuliano Amato of Italy and Jean-Luc Dehaene of Belgium. There are also observers from private groups. BACKGROUNDEuropean Union leaders called for a broad debate on the future shape of the union at the end of a summit meeting in Nice in December 2000. The convention is looking at the organization and structure, much of which was developed for its original 6 nations, trying to improve it before the admission of 10 new members in 2004. The convention also hopes to find ways to make the union more acceptable to the people of the member nations and streamline its bureaucratic process. PROPOSED STRUCTUREUnder the proposal, the European Union would have two presidents. One would replace the current six-month presidency system, which rotates among the member countries and would be awkward in a union with 25 members. The president of the European Commission, the union's administrative arm, would have more authority than at present. The union would have a foreign minister, who would be vice president of the commission. The European Parliament will have expanded legislative powers, together with the so-called Council of Ministers, a council of national governments. More lawmaking responsibilities would be turned over to the European Parliament. NEXT STEPSThe European Union's heads of state will gather at a summit meeting in Greece on June 20 to discuss the draft constitution. In October, foreign ministers of member states will come together to hammer out the details and to work out conflicts over how much power would remain with individual governments and over how much power would vary between big states and smaller ones. Each current and future member country holds veto power over each element of the constitution. Convention members are hoping to complete the negotiation process by next spring. Then the countries will have to ratify the constitution. The target for putting it into effect is early 2006. Map of Europe highlights the countries according to the following categories:Current member countriesTo join in 2004Candidate countries(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (99%); BELGIUM (93%); ITALY (93%); GREECE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



370 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: THE VIEW/From The Quiet Corner; 
One Town's Rejection Is Another's 'Let's Do Business'

BYLINE:  By GAIL BRACCIDIFERRO

 BODY:
PAUL J. BRYCKI, Griswold's first selectman, knows how much eastern Connecticut residents cherish the rural nature of their communities.
 He also knows the difficulties of paying for municipal services in a town that received a $900,000 reduction in state funds this year and where vacant textile mills serve as a reminder of the industrial base that no longer fuels the town's economy. 
 That is why Griswold is one of several towns in the region vying to attract a Wal-Mart distribution center, even after hundreds of residents in nearby Killingly spent months working to keep the center out.
"We are struggling here," Mr. Brycki said of the region's finances. "We are New Englanders. We do not want change, but then we get this thing called a tax bill. All services cost money." 
Mr. Brycki said Griswold was among eight communities in Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Island seeking the 1.2-million-square-foot Wal-Mart warehouse. 
Town officials from the communities say the center could bring more than $1 million annually in property taxes.
Keith T. Morris, Wal-Mart's community affairs manager, said the company needed to build a distribution center to serve between 75 and 100 stores in southern New England. There are 100 Wal-Mart stores in New England, Mr. Morris said. One distribution center, in New Hampshire, currently serves stores in the six New England states.
He said the company was searching many sites and had not yet narrowed down its field since being denied the ability to build in Killingly. 
On March 24, the Killingly Planning and Zoning Commission voted 4-to-1 to deny a zone change that would have paved the way to build the warehouse on a 345-acre site near Exit 92 of Interstate 395.
Mr. Morris said that even before Killingly turned down the proposal, other communities were asking Wal-Mart to consider building the distribution center within their boundaries.
Besides Griswold, officials in Plainfield and Norwich said they were interested. Norwich officials, however, expressed doubts that the city had enough undeveloped land to accommodate the warehouse.
"Plainfield is interested," David Allard, the town's first selectman said. "Probably every other town is interested, too. It is just very, very preliminary."
Griswold's town planner, Mario Tristany, said Wal-Mart officials sought maps of one of two possible parcels in the town.
Griswold, Norwich, Plainfield and Killingly are neighboring towns along the I-395 corridor. In the state's so-called "Quiet Corner" in northeastern Connecticut, the highway runs through miles of forests and farmlands.
Decades ago, many villages in the region were not so quiet. Dozens of textile plants churned out curtains, upholstery and a variety of fabrics, employed thousands of residents and brought wealth to villages such as Taftville, Wauregan, Danielson, Dayville and Jewett City. When the factories closed or moved south, the region began a long economic slide from which it is still seeking to rebound.
James Reck, chairman of the Killingly Conservation Commission, said: "We have 700 acres of unused industrial land already available. We spent three years working on a plan of development and conservation here and this project went against everything in that plan."
The town's plan urges redevelopment of the industrial sites and recommends most of the land east of I-395 remain rural, Mr. Reck said. The proposed Wal-Mart site is east of I-395.
The commission recommended the zone change be denied. Mr. Reck, who helped rally opponents to the plan, said there were also concerns about noise from the estimated 1,000 trucks that would use the warehouse each day, the potential water and air pollution, and the location of the site near both the densely populated village of Danielson and a more rural residential neighborhood just east of I-395.
Louise Berry, another Killingly resident who opposed the plan, said she was concerned about the type of jobs Wal-Mart would bring to town.
"The jobs are not the type that does much for the area," she said. "That is not an income that supports a family. I would like to see more small employers that provide a variety of types of jobs."
Mr. Reck said he believed the voice of reason prevailed in rejecting the zone change in Killingly.
"Anyone with any sense at all would know that was a bad thing," Mr. Reck said. . "Later, after the vote, no one said, 'That would have a been a good thing."'
Mr. Morris said Wal-Mart was taken by surprise by the opposition. The Killinglysite had been chosen after a nearly two-year search and reception in the town initially was nothing but positive, he said.
The Downtown Business Association, the Economic Development Commission and members of the Town Council supported the plan, he said. The town is already home to distribution centers for Brooks, Frito-Lay and Staples, Mr. Morris said.
"We did a poll and found that 60 percent of the town supported it," he said.
Mr. Morris said he thinks some Killingly opponents unfairly portrayed Wal-Mart as providing only menial, low-paying jobs. Distribution center jobs pay between $12 and $18 an hour, plus benefits, he said.
About 600 jobs would have been created initially, with as many as 1,000 people being employed after about three years, he added.
Wal-Mart officials said they were not surprised other communities were seeking the warehouse their neighbor had rejected.
Mia Masten, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart, could not provide specific numbers, but said that residents and town and state officials had frequently ask the company to locate in specific areas. 
Mr. Morris said the company considered factors like the amount of road improvements necessary, and the incentives the communities and states would provide to entice development.
In Plainfield, for example, on May 13 residents approved a referendum for a $7 million road project that would allow a Lowe's distribution center to locate there. Town officials said the home-improvement center would bring 400 to 600 jobs and provide $800,000 annually in property tax revenues.
When mustering opposition to the Wal-Mart plans in Killingly, Mr. Reck said he considered the possibility that the company could locate just a few miles away. That could mean the development may still have an impact of some sort on Killingly.
"It was a thought I had," he said. "But that's up to those towns to decide what they want."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, the intersection in Killingly where Wal-Mart was set to build a distribution center. The town fought against the plan and won. Left, Jim Reck, chairman of the conservation commission, said the project went against Killingly's own concept for development. (Photographs by C.M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TEXTILES (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); FABRIC MILLS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ZONING (76%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); TAX LAW (73%); FABRICS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



371 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: The Band Did Not Play On 

BYLINE:  By ALLAN RICHTER 

 BODY:
AT the Field Day Music Festival in Giants Stadium in the New Jersey Meadowlands on June 7, a stagehand accidentally slammed a headliner, Beck, in the ribs before he was to go on. The musician was taken to a hospital, where no broken bones were found. But considerable pain kept the artist from performing.
 The incident, along with the nearly constant rainfall at the concert, is a fitting metaphor for the failure to keep the show at the former Grumman airfield in Calverton, where it was originally scheduledas a two-day event, and for the cancellation by promoters last week of Bonnaroo NE, a rock festival planned for August at the same place. Bonnaroo's organizers said they were discouraged by Field Day's cancellation. 
 After all the efforts by promoters to bring the two events to Long Island, the breakdown of the plans may have sounded a death knell for the future of rock concerts in Calverton. 
"This is the end of that site for that purpose," Andrew Dreskin, the Field Day promoter, said of the 2,900-acre Calverton site, where more than 35,000 fans had been expected each day last weekend to hear musicians like Beck, Radiohead and the Beastie Boys. "No promoter in their right mind would touch that site with a 10-foot pole."
On June 4, after more than several weeks of intense legal and political tussling, and failure to get the necessary approvals, Mr. Dreskin decided to move the event to New Jersey. Now that the concert is over, the finger-pointing among the various factions has begun.
On one side are local business and tourism officials, who lament the lost dollars that had been anticipated. On another side are area homeowners and local environmentalists who say the concerts would have been a traffic nightmare and a public safety and environmental threat. At the same time, Suffolk County and Town of Riverhead officials blame each other for the collapse of the shows, the latest in a long line of snakebitten proposals for the redevelopment of the Calverton site. And local musicians and fans rue what they say is a lost chance for the Island to regain the role it had some 30 years ago as a rock music incubator.
Officials in Riverhead, which encompasses Calverton, had encouraged Mr. Dreskin's plans for Field Day. But in late May, the county health department denied him a permit, saying there were not enough police officers to manage the crowds and traffic. County officials refused to send their police officers, saying they did not have enough time to make arrangements to do so, a contention that town officials and Mr. Dreskin dispute. Eventually, the town board failed to give the necessary final approval to Mr. Dreskin, prompting him to move the concert. 
Mr. Dreskin said he first made contact with town officials last November, and in February had the first of a series of meetings with them and county officials. He also said that in April, county officials had already worked out what it would cost to hire police officers to work overtime. But John Gallagher, the Suffolk police chief, said plans made in April were already too late.
Mr. Dreskin said he believed that the security issues were an excuse to placate environmentalists and civic opponents whom he called the "rock-'n-roll-is-bad crowd."
Richard Amper, executive director of the Long Island Pine Barrens Society, who opposed both Field Day and Bonnaroo, said the cancellations resulted from poor planning by promoters and Riverhead. His group had filed a state lawsuit to stop Mr. Dreskin and the town, arguing that appropriate environmental reviews were not completed. The court denied the request, saying it was brought too early, but promoters of both concerts have said they had made the necessary arrangements.
Michael Hollander, president of the Long Island Convention and Visitors Bureau & Sports Commission, wanted both concerts held in Calverton because of the money he said they would bring in. An economic impact study commissioned by Mr. Dreskin estimated that Field Day would have pumped $2.7 million into the local economy.
Mr. Hollander blamed the collapse of the plans on environmental and other civic opponents. "It's sad that sometimes on Long Island small groups get to affect the welfare of the larger population," he said, adding that he did not think that security issues or poor planning by promoters and Riverhead officials was the problem, especially since Bonnaroo promoters canceled so early.
Meanwhile, the fate of the Calverton site remains in doubt. Mr. Amper, of the environmentalist group, said Riverhead officials have mishandled plans for the Calverton property since 1998, when the United States Navy, which owned the land, transferred it to the town for $1. He singled out Robert Kozakiewicz, the town supervisor, and Ed Densieski, a councilman, for clinging to hopes to turn the property into an airport at the expense of what he said were more viable uses that could yield more immediate financial rewards. In 2001, Riverhead voters defeated a town referendum to spend town money to operate an airport at Calverton.
"Part of why it's not a polo field and it's not a theme park and it's not a movie studio is because a lot of the proposals were simply incompatible with an airport," Mr. Amper said. "They foreclosed several viable redevelopment options because of their myopic focus on the site as an airport."
Mr. Kozakiewicz said efforts to develop the site continue, adding that the town has "leads" that could help bring a theme park, hotel and convention center to the property. "He makes statements that are not supported by facts," the supervisor said of Mr. Amper.
Mr. Densieski did not return several calls to his cellular telephone and his town hall office last week.
Fans and musicians are less concerned with the politics involved in the demise of the festivals. For them, the question is whether the Island will once again be home to a flourishing rock music scene.
Rob Barraco, 47, is the keyboard player for The Dead, the name now used by The Grateful Dead, which had planned to appear at Bonnaroo. Mr. Barraco, who lives in Centerport, grew up in the Hicksville area. He recalled when young musicians on the Island had access to scores of local clubs, large and small, in which to perform. Mr. Barraco said that scene eroded after the 1985 change in the New York State minimum drinking age, to 21 from 19, which he said kept aspiring musicians and huge audiences from the clubs. 
Early in his career, Mr. Barraco played the Island's club circuit in Timberwolf, a Grateful Dead tribute band.
"We were able to draw a couple of thousand people a night," he said in a telephone interview during a break in The Dead's rehearsals in California last month. "Then of course they changed the drinking age, and the business went down the drain. We were able to hang on for a little while because Jersey's drinking age didn't change for another year or two."
Supporters of the Field Day festival hoped the event would revitalize the local rock scene by bringing in modern fare, like Radiohead, that fit no particular genre as an alternative to the more mainstream acts that pass through Nassau Coliseum and the Jones Beach theater. 
Bonnaroo, a version of a Tennessee festival under way this weekend, would have exposed fans to the first tour bringing Bob Dylan and The Dead together since 1987, as well as to several newer bands influenced by the same blues, country and folk roots.
Recent efforts to produce rock music concerts at new venues on the Island have lost ground to protesting neighbors or a lack of profits. Nine summers of benefit concerts organized by Paul Simon at the Deep Hollow Ranch in Montauk ended in 1999 aftercomplaints from neighbors.
Another venue was lost when Nassau Off-Track Betting Corporation last month announced that it would buy the Vanderbilt catering hall in Plainview for $6.4 million and convert it into a casino-style teletheater. The site has been host to 400 rock concerts in the last four years.
Two years ago, Cream Productions, a London promoter, tried to put on Creamfields, a techno dance festival, in partnership with Clear Channel Entertainment at the Calverton site. The event was canceled after slow ticket sales.
"Long Island needs something like this," David Luvetsky, a 20-year-old college student, said of the canceled festivals as he recently shopped Tower Records in Carle Place.
Mr. Dreskin said he had plans for Field Day 2004, but that he was unlikely to pursue a site on the Island, although he would not completely rule that out. He said he was looking at a site in New York State.
He declined to specify his losses from Field Day, but said they totaled "many millions of dollars." Mr. Dreskin said about 20,000 tickets totaling $1.6 million were sold for the New Jersey show. About 55,000 tickets had been made available for the concert.
New Jersey police arrested five people on misdemeanor charges during the 12 hours of the concert. Mr. Dreskin saw that statistic as affirmation that the festival could have been run smoothly in Calverton.
"The assertions that these folks were making all along were totally baseless, and we proved that on Saturday," he said.
Mr. Amper, the environmentalist, remained unconvinced. "We take no pleasure in the loss of these concerts," he said, "but neither of them had sufficient time to assure protection of the public and the Pine Barrens."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The stage at the Calverton airfield before Field Day was moved to New Jersey. Inset, signs outside the site's gate gave fans the news. (Doug Kuntz and, inset, Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Concertgoing hopefuls were getting the bad news from state troopers last Saturday that the concert at Calverton was canceled. Now discouraged promoters have put aside plans for a concert at Calverton in August. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); APPROVALS (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (70%); COUNTIES (68%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (68%); CITIES (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (63%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (63%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); TOURISM (50%) MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

PERSON: RICHTER, ALLAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALVERTON (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



372 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Wyandanch Gathers To Envision Future 

BYLINE:  By CAROLINE B. SMITH 

 BODY:
A LOT of these people don't really see themselves as having much of a future, so they do turn to selling drugs and doing drugs," Tracy Bonner, 21, a lifelong resident of Wyandanch, said the other day as she walked down Straight Path, the boulevard that passes for the hamlet's commercial district.
 Last year, the Suffolk County Planning Department gave Wyandanch the inauspicious title of the most economically distressed community on Long Island. In 2001, the state Education Department said Wyandanch's junior and senior high schools were the worst in New York State. 
 In an effort to erase a widespread reputation as a community ravaged by drugs, street crime, gangs, poverty and bad schools, local government and community leaders last week conducted a four-day community "visioning" process to create change in Wyandanch. The event, dubbed "Wyandanch Rising," included focus groups and a community walk-through and concluded with the unveiling of a master plan on Monday. 
"We're looking for a renaissance and we're hoping that this will provide the focus for the changes to improve the quality of life in Wyandanch," said Ann Stewart, coordinator for Weed and Seed, a local civic group. "We're hoping that through this process, we can develop those kinds of facilities where people can go into their own community to do their shopping. We're hoping to develop an economic base that will attract business, provide jobs for local residents and improve upon the aesthetics of Wyandanch to make it an attractive place to live." 
The preliminary plan unveiled on Monday includes streetscape and roadway improvements along Straight Path, including decorative lighting and brick pavers. A more detailed plan will be prepared in two to three months, and will include suggestions for businesses, housing, transit development and traffic pattern improvements.
Although a Compare Supermarket opened its doors on Straight Path five years ago, becoming the first supermarket in Wyandanch in a generation, the hamlet still lacks a substantial shopping district. Business development is hindered by a lack of sewers and traffic congestion flow along Straight Path, which was recently reduced from four lanes to two after the road was ranked the worst in the county for pedestrian accidents and fatalities.
"The fact that it is not sewered is a big problem in Wyandanch," said Jim Morgo, president of the Long Island Housing Partnership, a nonprofit affordable housing group which plans this summer to begin construction of 10 new single-family homes on scattered sites throughout Wyandanch.
While there is a sense of enthusiasm for change among business owners and some residents, skeptics recall that in the past, and usually around election time, politicians come around with promises of a bright future for Wyandanch that come to nothing. 
"When we first moved here 13 years ago, we were told Wyandanch was on the rise then, and it has gone downhill," said Juanita Lipscomber, who attended the visioning workshops. "But I'm hoping it's on the rise again."
Patrick Duggan, executive director of Sustainable Long Island, a nonprofit group promoting "smart growth" on the Island, said their model -- no to strip malls and new tracts of single-family homes, yes to downtown shopping districts and higher-density housing -- can work in Wyandanch. Over the past five years, Sustainable Long Island has been involved in projects in Oyster Bay, Huntington, Huntington Station, New Cassel and Roosevelt.
The Nassau County executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, has developed a parallel plan for 35 economic development zones with the hope of creating within the next two years a shared vision for Long Island's downtowns, according to his spokesman, Bruce Nyman. This county project is separate from Sustainable Long Island's economic development efforts except in the Hempstead-Uniondale-Garden City-Mineola area, where the two entities are working together to address the development and transportation issues of the Nassau Hub concept.
Rather than the traditional model of development where professionals bring a plan to the community and hope there will be support, the "visioning" process brings residents, businesses, government officials, civic groups, clergy, students and labor to the planning and development process. "It's a model that provides an answer to nimbyism and an alternative to a top-down approach to development and planning," Mr. Duggan said. "You need the leadership, you need the political support, you need the expertise. But the community residents, business owners and stakeholders have to be involved in the process in order for it to be effective and in order for it to have legs."
Steve Bellone, the Babylon town supervisor, noted that Wyandanch has been named a New York State Empire Zone, which gives tax credits to private businesses willing to invest in the community. "We're already seeing based on the amount of time we've spent promoting Wyandanch, an interest from the business community," said Mr. Bellone, adding that the proximity to the Long Island Rail Road and major parkways make Wyandanch an attractive business site. "My greatest hope is that 10, 15 years from now, people will look back and say, 'Wow, how did we get here?"' 
Karim Abdul Sharif, 55, said he is a 30-year resident of Wyandanch and carries a knife for protection when he leaves his house. Mr. Sharif said crack cocaine is sold on the streets and is responsible for turning teenagers into prostitutes in order to supply their habit. "I am grateful to the politicians who are trying to help fight this disease of attitudes," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (74%); TRENDS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); FOCUS GROUPS (68%); POLITICS (64%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: SMITH, CAROLINE B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) WYANDANCH (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



373 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2839 words

HEADLINE: Violence Offers Its Own Lessons 

BYLINE:  By DEBRA GALANT 

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
IF you enter this city from Interstate 280 by way of First Street, you first pass through a patchwork of overgrown lots, nondescript brick buildings and an occasional barbed wire fence. Official-looking signs tell what lies ahead. One says, "Trauma Center." Within a block or so, another says, "Justice Center."
 The signs are not intended for metaphoric value. The University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey is just blocks away, and beyond that the city's vast court complex. Yet together they tell a story about more thanjust buildings. There is a pattern that is repeated over and over here -- and in other cities throughout New Jersey. First the ambulance, then the emergency room, and finally court and prison. 
 Historically, doctors and police officers have occupied not just separate buildings, but separate mindsets as well. However, in one building on the university's urban campus here, the disciplines have begun to merge. The Violence Institute of New Jersey -- which opened about five years ago as part of the university -- is a research organization dedicated to studying violence in the state, and its location in the middle of a medical-sciences institution is no accident. It is part of a relatively recent trend to look at violent crime as an epidemic and try to bring the rigor of the scientific method to studying it. 
Bruce Stout, the institute's director, hopes to do for violence what other public health experts have done for automotive fatalities or heart disease -- find ways to prevent it. As Dr. Stout observed, it was public health, after all, that linked smoking, blood pressure and being overweight to heart attack risk, and that definitively connected auto fatalities to the failure to wear seat belts. 
"Imagine if the public health system relied solely on emergency room response to heart attack victims," said Dr. Stout, an adviser to Gov. Christie Whitman from 1994 to 1999, and who ran the state's juvenile justice commission for two years. "Epidemiologists know that the first thing you do is get a very clear sense of what's happening."
The Violence Institute, which has offices in Newark and Piscataway and a staff of 10, has an annual budget of $1.5 million, half of which comes directly from the state, and is one of many such research organizations in the United States. It was one of six chosen by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to take part in a $7.5 million, five-year project to develop a system for reporting on violent deaths nationwide, which will collect 100 pieces of data for incident.
To some extent, the work done at the Police Institute, a part of Rutgers University-Newark, overlaps with the Violence Institute. But while the Violence Institute tends to study victims and gather data from hospitals, the Police Institute studies the perpetrators and gathers data from the police. "We want to know who's getting killed and who's killing," said George Kelling, who runs the Police Institute. 

A Society Steeped in Violence
Violence began to emerge as a public health issue in the 1980's and gained nationwide attention in 1992, when George Lund-berg, editor of The Journal of the American Medical Association, and C. Everett Koop, a former surgeon general of the United States, wrote an editorial, "Time to Bite the Bullet Back." It described "a grotesque picture of a society steeped in violence" and called for complete registration and licensing of all firearms. 
"Time to Bite the Bullet Back" was the editorial equivalent of tossing a Molotov cocktail into a hospital no-honking zone. It acknowledged what had gone unsaid for years: that doctors were spending increasing amounts of time undoing the handiwork of criminals rather than fighting germs, and it pushed the public health community into a debate on criminal justice. 
And as violence became a true field of public health and epidemiological inquiry, people like Thomas Cole, a contributing editor of The Journal of the American Medical Association who is responsible for its violence issue each August, began to demand more rigorous scientific analysis.
"The best of all these people say let's do some research and let the chips fall where they may," he said.
Dropping the automatic vilification of firearms has helped the discipline grow. "Once they got rid of the gun thing, lots of people got on board," Dr. Cole said. 
There are many elements contributing to violence in this country, and guns are just one of them. There is, for instance, drug use, gang warfare, unstable and overtaxed families, bullying in school and neighborhoods where all of those antisocial forces thrive.
A major project undertaken by the institute was the gathering of data on assaults at six emergency rooms in the Newark area in 2001. According to the institute, Newark was chosen because it is in Essex County, which had more murders than any other county in New Jersey in 2000, and because Newark had the highest rate of total crime and most violent crimes of any of the state's urban centers. The six emergency rooms collected data on the age, race and gender of the victims as well as their relationship to the assailants, along with the type of weapon used, where the attack took place and whether drugs appeared to be involved.
Among the findings: the victims of violence in Newark were overwhelmingly young, black and male; three-quarters of them knew their assailants; one-third of all attacks happened in the home; and 12 percent of gunshot victims were 22 years old.
In fact, "victims and offenders are often one and the same," said David Livingston, director of trauma at University Hospital in Newark. "One week you're a victim. The next week you're an offender." 
The project also discovered that certain neighborhoods, called "hot spots," in Newark were more likely to send assault victims to the emergency room and plotted these areas on a map. Zeroing in on the neighborhoods responsible for most assaults can be helpful to the police and other community organizations, but with the city of Newark busily promoting the notion of a "renaissance," it is a tricky public relations issue to point out bad neighborhoods. 

Epicenter of the Hot Spot
In the space of three blocks, flanked at each end by schools, there were empty lots with grass sprouting through the asphalt, surrounded by barbed wire and heavily littered with packaging from McDonald's, Burger King and KFC. Many of the buildings had boarded windows or front steps in disrepair, and some appeared to be completely abandoned -- an invitation for junkies and drug dealers.
In front of one house there was a collection of empty liquor bottles, lined up as neatly as bowling pins. Several houses had signs that said: "Attention. Newark police arrest any person or persons loitering in front of this building. Owner will prosecute."
As if sent by central casting, a patrol car from the Newark Police Department was parked only feet from the address that marked the epicenter of the hot spot, and it appeared to be involved in a stakeout. 
Yet just around the corner were new townhouses and at the end of one block a community garden -- clear signs of redemption. 
Indeed, the purpose of mapping the hot spot, which is shared with the Greater Newark Safer Cities Initiative and other agencies, is to identify areas that need attention. Some help, in the form of better housing and community policing, has apparently begun to arrive.
"This is a city," Dr. Livingston commented. "It's very patchwork. Like real estate. Location, location, location."
One of the few people who lingered on the street was Dimitrius Warren, who said the area was known for drugs and stolen cars, and who acknowledged that it might not be the best neighborhood for children attending the nearby schools.
"You got to be careful as you're coming and you're going," said Mr. Warren, who was working in the area.
Asked about gunshots, the young man let out a laugh. "That would be on the next block," he said, gesturing to the place the police car had been parked.
The way society experiences violence is not unlike violence itself. A school shooting, the abduction and slaying of a child, a crazed gunman in a post office, a terrorist attack -- these events all come suddenly, like a bullet, blowing a hole into the collective sense of safety. For a while the horrific events seem like the only news that matters.
Then something like 9/11 happens, and the sense of threat abruptly shifts. A year later, there is a spate of child abductions, and suddenly the front yard seems the most dangerous place in the universe. Each act of violence results in its own shift in public policy.
"We do this all the time in the Legislature when a horrible thing happens and a tragedy takes place," said Assemblywoman Mary Previte, vice chairwoman of the law and public safety committee.
But Ms. Previte, who is also administrator of the Camden County Youth Center, says reacting to events is far from the best way to run a penal system. "Shockers," she said, "invariably create bad legislation." 
To that end, Ms. Previte, along with Assemblyman Peter Barnes, chairman of the committee, introduced a bill last September intended to create a commission to study criminal sentencing. In May, they introduced another bill, specifically asking the Violence Institute to study sentencing reform for nonviolent drug offenders. 
"Let's let the scholars investigate," she said. "What is working elsewhere? How much would it cost? If a huge amount of crime is related to addiction, then treatment has got to be part of the solution."
The institute's expert on addiction and drug-related crime is Jack Farrell, who spent more than 30 years working for the state on issues of addiction treatment. 
Mr. Farrell said that heroin was the dominant illicit drug in the Northeast, including in Newark, and that its economic importance as an illegal cartel was what led to most of the violence. "Turf issues tend to be settled violently," he said.
But drug users, who constitute the demand side of the equation, often wind up on the right side of the law if they get drug treatment. "Treatment works," Mr. Farrell said. "There are gazillions of studies that will show that."
That does not mean it is easy. Although society is now relatively forgiving of recovering alcoholics, it still stigmatizes former users of illicit drugs, Mr. Farrell said, meaning that they need help just to find a job.
Every Wednesday, Mr. Farrell attends a meeting of the Greater Newark Safer Cities Initiative, a consortium of professionals that runs the gamut from police and parole officers to social workers and religious leaders, and that is led by Dr. Kelling of the Police Institute at Rutgers. 
Twice a month, a working group focuses on specific people, or "cases," who have been on the wrong side of the law. Together they consider what institutional glue might hold these lives together -- who needs help with counseling, with medical care, with housing, with job hunting - and what will make Newark a safer place. 
"It's a very fragile thing," said Mr. Farrell, "called the spirit of a human being."
If Mr. Farrell and his colleagues fail, the very people they talk about at these meetings may go on to commit violent crimes, or be the victims of them, and the whole cycle of headlines and blame will begin anew. If Mr. Farrell and his colleagues succeed, almost nobody will know. The process of drug addicts and minor criminals re-entering the fabric of society is a quiet one. When a person becomes a law-abiding citizen, it rarely makes headlines. 

Programs at the Institute
There are literally dozens of programs that purport to prevent violence by teaching children good social skills. The Violence Institute has compiled a 196-page source book detailing 38 of these programs, including at least two created here in the state. These are the kinds of programs that usually involve role playing and group discussions, and often come with posters, T-shirts or booklets reminding students how to behave by way of pictures and acronyms.
Currently, the institute is studying a kindergarten and first-grade program called "I Can Problem Solve" in the Passaic public schools.
"If we teach conflict resolution skills in K through two, does that reduce conflict?" Dr. Stout asked. "What's the impact? We're putting good science to the test."
But Dr. Cole of The Journal of the American Medical Association is skeptical that such programs of social engineering, well intended though they may be, can be accurately measured. Dr. Cole, who has been editing the violence issues since 1995, said he could not remember publishing even one paper that presented data on a school-based intervention. 
As he said, it is usually the classroom teacher who implements the anti-violence program and then evaluates it. "They've got a vested interest," he said. "The other JAMA editors are, if anything, more skeptical than I am."
Last month, Dr. Stout attended a program in Jersey City in which Dawn Reynolds, principal of the Fred W. Martin School elementary school, told how she had made her school safer. 
Over the three years that she has been principal, Miss Reynolds said, she has instituted a poetry program, has had teachers trained in conflict resolution, teamed up with the Ponderosa restaurant chain on a program called, "Achieving A's Pays," and even started another one to ensure the bathrooms stay clean and free of graffiti.
"I walk down the corridor now and people want to hand me poetry," she said. "The biggest compliment is when people say: 'Wow, this is so quiet. This looks like a private school."'
It all sounds good, but by the standards of social science, what proof is there that anything has changed? How quiet are private schools? How does one objectively measure whether an inner-city school has become more like a private school? And is that even an appropriate question? 
Miss Reynolds may have produced a school environment where children are thriving creatively and behaving nicely, but will that translate into a reduction in violence in five years? In 10 years? Will these students, when they are 22, literally dodge a bullet?
The notion of predicting future behavior statistically has always been the stuff of science fiction. The movie "Minority Report" that came out last summer -- in which hypersensitive humans, submerged in water, could "see" violence ahead of time -- presented this conundrum: Could people apprehended by this system be punished for crimes they had not yet committed. 
That problem is one that people like Dr. Stout struggle with all the time.
"We're very good at predicting what kids are likely to become delinquent," he said. "Knowing that, do we then intervene in their lives? Or do we wait until their conduct's so serious we lock them up?"
It is one thing to see a teenager lurching toward a bad end, and another to know what effect today's social tinkering might have. Or to try to tease out the effects of poetry programs and training in social skills in lives that are also affected by economic hardship and family turmoil.
That is one of the problems faced by the institute, which wants to apply the rigorous methodology of science in studying violence but also wants to acknowledge current efforts to fight violence -- even ones that are untested.
Last month, the institute co-sponsored an awards ceremony for Newark's "Do the Write Thing" essay contest, in which junior high school students were asked to write about ways to reduce violence. Speeches were given, trophies handed out and the two winners -- Latoya Evans and Keith Williams -- read their essays and were each awarded a $500 scholarship by the institute. Dr. Stout acknowledges that there has been no research on "Do the Write Thing." There is no way of knowing whether this particular campaign against violence is a real agent of change or merely a placebo.

The Children of Violence
Latoya Evans, a slim girl who wears her hair in tightly wrapped corn rows, lives in a neighborhood infested with gangs, where even 6-year-old children know about the Bloods and the Cryps. She had a friend cut down by violence last summer, but she keeps the details of that incident to herself. 
Latoya wants to be a pediatrician one day, and the $500 she received from the contest is the first money that has been earmarked for her college education.
Keith Williams, who wore a basketball jersey to the awards ceremony, lost a 22-year-old cousin to gang violence last year. These days he copes with his environment by writing rap. "I fill notebooks up with rap," he said. "If I get mad, I write rap. If I get happy, I write rap." 
To him, it is not complicated at all.
When I go to bed at night I close my eyes real tight.
I pray that I may wake without having to fight.
I'll fight everyday to stay positive and to remember violence isn't cool.
I'll tell all my friends to conquer peer pressure and try to stay in school. 
Because stealing, drinking, smoking and killing are all parts of sin
And "you know how one things leads to another" so they might all end up in "The Pen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Newark Police Department patrols the streets in a section of the city referred to by the Violence Institute as a "hot spot."; The Violence Institute of New Jersey in Newark is looking at violent crime -- in neighborhoods like the one shown above -- as an epidemic in an effort to bring the rigor of the scientific method to studying it. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); "You got to be careful as you're coming and you're going," said Dimitrius Warren, who was working in a section of Newark with a high crime rate.; The Violence Institute co-sponsored an awards ceremony for Newark's "Do the Write Thing" essay contest. The two finalists, above, were Latoya Evans, left, and Keith Williams. David Livingston, director of trauma at University Hospital, left, has studied violence in the city. Bruce Stout, director of the Violence Institute, far left, sees violent crime as an epidemic. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); HEART DISEASE (86%); TRAUMA CENTERS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); HOSPITALS (74%); VIOLENT CRIME (74%); DENTISTRY (71%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (71%); EPIDEMICS (70%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (66%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (65%); TRENDS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (64%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); BUDGETS (60%) VIOLENCE; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%) VIOLENCE INSTITUTE OF NEW JERSEY; CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION 

PERSON: GALANT, DEBRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY; NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



374 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES; 
Hoping for a Curtain Call

BYLINE:  By GEORGE JAMES 

DATELINE: ENGLEWOOD 

 BODY:
FROM his restaurant, Maria's Italian Cuisine, on the corner of East Palisade Avenue and North Van Brunt Street, George Berisha can see the shuttered Victorian facade of the John Harms Center for the Arts midway down the street. He can feel its demise in his bank account.
 "Last year I did very well, even though I was new," said Mr. Berisha, who, after 30 years as a chef at several country clubs decided to buy Maria's, his first restaurant, in May 2002. 
 "And this year started very well," he said. "But since John Harms closed, I lost about 30 percent in profits."
The marquee of the Harms center, which in recent years announced an eclectic slate of performers ranging from Tony Bennett to the children's act the Wiggles, has been blank for two months, proclaiming financial failure for the theater and uncertainty about this city's continued revival.
The Harms theater began life as a silent movie and vaudeville house in 1926, and was reborn as a performing arts center in 1976 thanks to a local promoter, John Harms. It closed its doors on April 14. A $6.6 million renovation in 1998 contributed to the theater's $2.3 million debt to Fleet Bank. 
At the moment, the Bergen Performing Arts Center Inc., a foundation formed two weeks after the Harms closed, is trying to reopen it. Earlier this month, the group presented a plan to the Bergen County Improvement Authority that would provide low-interest financing to pay off the debt. 
It can't happen soon enough for Mr. Berisha. Perhaps he is a little more candid than most restaurateurs, who generally keep their finances as secret as their recipes. Several chose not to be interviewed for this article.
Others, though not crying poverty, acknowledged that the 1,400-seat theater had attracted customers to the restaurants, boutiques and chic shops in a downtown that has been undergoing an economic rebirth and gaining a reputation in this racially diverse community of 26,000 as a regional arts center.
"Business has obviously declined as a result of the Harms closing," said Frank Huttle 3rd, a lawyer wholives here and is a founder of the Bergen foundation. "From an economic standpoint, we're working diligently to reopen it for the well-being of downtown Englewood as well as from a cultural standpoint for the county."
At the Moon Street American Bar and Grill on North Dean Street, Erik Korman, one of the owners, said business on Friday and Saturday nights had remained strong, but suffered on the week nights when the Harms center used to have performances. 
"That definitely took away a lot of business," Mr. Korman said. "There's a lot less people coming in. When they had a sold-out show, you had 1,400 people. Do the math." 
Mr. Korman, an outgoing 34-year old man who for 11 years owned and operated a luncheonette in Clifton before buying Moon Street three years ago, said the closing hurt in another way. 
"I did a lot of their catering," he said. "They closed on a Monday, I believe. That Wednesday, Tower of Power was going to play over there with Average White Band. Two groups: 21 guys. I was cooking for them all day. So figure out how much you lose just in that alone."
Little menus on the tables for drinks like Key West Martinis had a schedule of Harms benefit concerts for the Harms written on the back, including one for June 20 featuring Dr. Robert Stern, a former chairman of the center. Aside from playing violin in a blues band, he is a dentist in town.
Mr. Korman, who will charge $10 for the benefit concerts, said he had put on benefit performances in his restaurant in the past, including one with Bennett Studios, a recording studio down the street from the Harms center owned by Tony Bennett's son, Dae, where the elder Mr. Bennett recently recorded a CD with k.d. lang.
Richard McBride, manager of the Smoke Chophouse and Cigar Emporium on Engle Street, said the closing had not hurt business, even though the theater had provided "a little extra traffic." 
Still, Mr. McBride said the Harms center was an important part of the community fabric.
"Just the idea there was a theater in town, I think, makes the town a little more different than the next town," he said.
Smoke offered dinner-theater packages to patrons in recent years. "We'd make up fliers and put them on tables," Mr. McBride said. "For Julio Iglesias, I think we sold 18 tickets, which was good for us, because we sold the whole dinner package, and it was good for the theater too."
With each ticket, the restaurant gave Harms a $10 donation, he said. And the people at Harms often referred theatergoers to Smoke, which is about two distant blocks from the theater.
"They would say, 'Around the corner, Smoke's a nice little spot to have hot coffee,' so that would get us out a little more geographically," he said. "All that word of mouth helps."
Robert Benecke, the Englewood city manager, said he thought the theater's closing had little effect on business so far. Harms normally did not offer a summer schedule, he added, and the true impact would not be known until shortly after September, when the new season would have begun.
But, Mr. Benecke said, reviving the theater was crucial for the continued revitalization that has driven downtown Englewood stores to post some of the highest retail sales for downtowns in the state. 
"Without the Harms, it would be difficult to sustain momentum and growth into the future," Mr. Benecke said. "It's critical to the continued health of Englewood, no question about it."
Mr. Huttle of the Bergen Performing Arts Center, said Harms could open again on a limited basis in the fall. The next step is a far-reaching fund-raising drive. "It'sreally a North Jersey performing arts center," he said. 
Mr. Berisha, who is 51, said he had been looking at the "numbers" he needs to reach his goal -- retirement. And so he takes the re-emergence of Harms very personally. 
"I'm going to get there sooner or later," Mr. Berisha said. "But it will be later, if they don't open the theater."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Erik Korman, above, an owner of the Moon Street American Bar and Grill, says business during the week has dropped off because of the closing of the Harms Center. (Photographs by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (92%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FILM (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); TRENDS (72%); RETAILERS (67%); INTERVIEWS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CULTURE 

ORGANIZATION: HARMS, JOHN, CENTER FOR THE ARTS (ENGLEWOOD, NJ) 

PERSON: BENECKE, ROBERT; JAMES, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) ENGLEWOOD (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



375 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: THE ECONOMY; 
Summer Jobs Are Harder to Find

BYLINE:  By DEBRA NUSSBAUM 

 BODY:
WHEN Doug Schultz came home to Stratford from Loyola College in Maryland last month, he began looking for a job that would put $2,000 in his pocket by the end of August.
 After four weeks, Mr. Schultz still had not heard back from one store or restaurant where he had applied. Finally last week, he had a second interview at the Olive Garden and hopes to get a job waiting on tables at the restaurant in Voorhees. For now, he is also working a few shifts each week at the Hardshell Cafe in Marlton, a job he has had since high school. 
 "It's definitely a lot more difficult this year," said the 19-year-old Mr. Schultz. "A lot of places are not actually hiring. They are just accepting applications." 
Thousands of teenagers and young adults throughout New Jersey are having similar experiences. While there are jobs available paying $5.15 an hour, the minimum wage, it is a much tougher market this summer for students hoping to earn a bit more. The problem, some employers say, is that students are now competing with workers in their 20's and 30's who lost their jobs and are willing to wait on tables in the hope that the sluggish economy will soon bounce back.
"Someone would have to die to get in here for a wait staff job," said Steve Horn, who owns Restaurant Maureen and the Martini Bar in Wildwood with is wife, Maureen. 
With waiters and waitresses earning an average of $200 in tips on a Friday or Saturday night during the summer, the jobs are coveted. This spring, Mr. Horn said, two former employees with college degrees asked to return after being laid off from their regular jobs. 
The numbers tell the story. New Jersey's unemployment rate in May was 5.8 percent, according to the state Department of Labor, only slightly lower than the 6.1 percent nationally, the highest rate in nine years and adding to the worst jobs slump since the early 1980's. So as high school and college students flood the summer market, they are finding that the pickings are slim -- unless they are willing to accept jobs paying the minimum wage.
Still, forecasters are saying that the pace of layoffs has slowed over the last two months, suggesting that the economy might have stabilized and could begin adding jobs this summer. 
Closer to the ground, however, those words are hardly reassuring. Even Peter Saharko, a spokesman for the state Department of Labor, had to temper his optimism.
"There's no question that it's going to be a competitive market this year," Mr. Saharko said. There are still jobs out there if you are willing to make a sacrifice. This is another year of a several-year trend in the tightening of the job market."
That sacrifice could entail taking lower-end jobs with the hope that they might lead to promotions -- or at least experience that will help them get a leg up on the next job hunt, Mr. Saharko said.
But with rising college tuition and housing payments and the need for computers and cars and other amenities on campus, many students feel they have to clear at least $1,500 or $2,000 by summer's end.
"In college the expenses are high," said Julie Williams, 19, of Haddon Heights, who just completed her freshman year at University of the Arts in Philadelphia. She and her friends looked for jobs waiting on tables and in hair salons, where tips can greatly exceed the base salaries. "The problem is that you need experience to get in. As a college student, you get the short end of the stick."
Last summer, Ms. Williams said she worked as a nanny for two families and at the box office of a community theater. Last week she was relieved to learn that she landed a job teaching music at a summer camp, where she will earn more than $2,000. It will also provide her the chance to give piano lessons and babysit for extra cash.
"A lot of my friends need two jobs, and they are having trouble finding even one," she said. To make matters worse, they are discouraged by the low-paying jobs and the tax bite. "You get half a paycheck or you work all week and make about 20 bucks."
But from the standpoint of employers, it is a buyer's market.
Ron DiPietro, who owns two restaurants in South Jersey and has a contract for the concession at a swim club, said he is slightly overstaffed.
"I have kids saying, 'I have to work 40 hours a week,"' Mr. DiPietro said. "The job market is so tight. We've got former stockbrokers looking for jobs. The help is at a high level now. There's someone waiting for their spot if they don't do a good job."
At R.Mac's Pub in Haddon Township, one of Mr. DiPietro's restaurants, he said he has waiters who lost jobs in the computer industry and casinos as well as two students who are working several summer jobs because their fathers are out of work. 
"I've got phone calls out of the woodwork," he said. "These kids need money. They're not fooling around."
This is one of those summers when students are finding that the ladder of success is missing several rungs. Chris Dorin, 21, of Ridgewood, is back at the bank where he has worked as a teller in previous summers. Mr. Dorin, a finance major at Bryant College in Smithfield, R.I., had hoped to get a job this summer at a brokerage house or mortgage company.
"The amount of job opportunities was lower this year," he said. 
The benefits and salaries were lower too. Companies don't want to spend the time and money right now to train employees.
Mr. Dorin, who is earning $8.50 an hour at the bank, said he was happy to be rehired when he could not get a paid internship because he has to pay $1,400 every six months for car insurance and also needs spending money at school.
"It's nice to have something to fall back on," he said. "Most people went back to jobs they had in the past."
On the other hand, students are finding there are other jobs that sound attractive in newspaper advertisements and on the Web, though they often turn out to be sales jobs that pay only on a commission basis. 
"A lot of jobs are just mass telemarketing," Mr. Dorin said. "It's not what you'd want to do. There are fliers like that all over my school."
Last summer, Pat Saltman of Audubon said her son, Josh, 21, sold Cutco knives for Vector Marketing Corporation, but this year he decided he did not want to do cold-call sales another summer.
"He worked hard and made good money," Ms. Saltman said, adding that the job entailed daily sales meetings and calling friends and neighbors to set up appointments for demonstrations. "He had no problem with cold calling, but you have to have the personality for it, and you have to have connections."
And then there is Six Flags Great Adventure, the sprawling theme park in Jackson Township.
Kristin Siebeneicher, a spokeswoman for Six Flags, said the park was still looking for help. When the hiring is complete, she said, about 42 percent of the 5,000 jobs will be filled by high school and college students -- although this year the employment office had noticed an increase in applications from people over 21.
"We see that as a possible sign of the economy," Ms. Siebeneicher said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "A lot of places are not actually hiring," said Doug Schultz, 19, of Stratford, a student at Loyola College in Maryland. "They are just accepting applications." (David Hunsinger for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); TRENDS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%) LABOR; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

PERSON: NUSSBAUM, DEBRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



376 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: Security Is the Issue In Offshore Services 

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 In no way do states save money by outsourcing their jobs overseas (Soapbox, June 1). This just means there are more unemployed people here, thus the need for unemployment payments, more people on welfare, needing to use food banks and other aid. When people are not working they cannot be consumers, thus the nonpurchasing snowballs to retailers. Less taxes collected by the state. Outsourcing is short sighted. The fact that private companies have done this does not make it right. This is one reason our trade balance is so bad.

Muriel C. Hyman
Matawan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFSHORING (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); FOOD CHARITIES (84%); RETAILERS (83%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



377 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 2008 words

HEADLINE: Celebration Bermuda 

BYLINE:  By Anthony Weller; Anthony Weller's third novel, "The Siege of Salt Cove," is forthcoming from Norton.

 BODY:
Ever since childhood, my idea of islands was tropical, so I'd always been skeptical of Bermuda, only a two-hour flight from New York. It never occurred to me that here was an island with virtually no resources, a rock 22 miles square in the middle of the Atlantic, which had traded for generations on little more than ingenuity and beauty to create a calm, prosperous society. 

THE MOOD
 As one of Britain's earliest colonies, on the same subtropical latitude as Shanghai and Charleston, S.C., Bermuda enjoys a fiscal Gulf Stream of its own creation. When I arrived the place struck me as highly British -- from the pillar postboxes to the serenely assured, idiosyncratic architecture -- but it became less so the longer I stayed and began to sense what being Bermudian means. 
 The surprise comes from what the island is not. It is not poor, not full of junky T-shirt kiosks. There are no casinos. The weather isn't always hot noonday sun; high season is April through November, not the reverse. It does not allow tourists to rent cars, which keeps down the traffic, encourages the use of bicycles or motor scooters and guarantees work for the taxi drivers incessantly polishing their shiny vans. Less starchy than the guidebooks would have you believe, it is unfailingly polite. Best of all, unlike many small places with a deep colonial past, it never feels like a client state, a humbled dependent. Bermudians resent being lumped with the other islands and will remind you, with a relaxed pride, that they're as distant from the Caribbean as Washington is from Dallas.
Visitors come for the plentiful pink sand beaches, and for the golf courses. But the island now earns far more from offshore businesses and insurance than from tourism. Local people call it a virtual economy, afloat on the billions flowing through daily, just as it once rode the currents of other ideas it got to first -- resort tourism, or trade with the United States in, say, Revolutionary War gunpowder, Civil War rifles, Prohibition rum or Bermuda onions. Another first, I'd hazard, is that the current premier, Jennifer Smith, is a black woman who succeeded another black woman.
Like Gibraltar, Bermuda really is a rock: all water comes from the sky, collected deftly off the ridged roofs, and residents speak of having Rock Fever from not getting away enough. Bermudians do tend to live elsewhere for years, then return, and one result is an unplaceable oceanic accent, neither British nor American nor Caribbean, to which each person seems to give a uniquely different inflection. 
I was happy to meet up with an old friend in Hamilton, the capital. John Zuill is a 14th-generation Bermudian I'd known in the United States, now co-director of a theater company, Waterspout, whose 2002-3 season included Mishima, Mamet and Shakespeare. Over coffee we talked about "The Tempest" -- the play's shipwreck may have been prompted by one here in 1609 -- and gazed toward the harbor. 
"The key to Bermuda has always been that unless you apply your wits, there's nothing here," Zuill said. "All we have are sunshine and brains. There was never any money to be made here unless you were actually here. There weren't estates to control from afar; there wasn't even fresh water. The slaves weren't plantation labor, because there weren't any plantations -- they had specific skills. And a lot of big ideas, like coffee or rubber or onions, failed. But as long as the United States and European tax codes don't change, we probably have a secure future."
Bermuda is careful to avoid any blatant sexiness in its ads, relying on the affection of repeat visitors who aren't seeking adventure. As I wound by bus from parish to parish, the coastal roads offered a sea crashing mildly on the rocks, the lilt of gospel halls, tilled tomato fields nestled among palms, fresh fish or lilies for sale beside the limestone walls and low shuttered houses -- some in pinks or creamy yellows, some in sorbets of grape, peach, mango. As Winslow Homer proved here in 1899, there is still an immortal calm in the watercolor disarray of a cove, a spit of beach, a peeling red-and-white wooden boat leaning on pale sand and fallen fronds, while an ever-changing force of intensifying blue moves horizonward.

THE FOOD
 Dining in Bermuda is always pricey, and most successful when least pretentious. In general, fresh fish, caught locally that very day or scrupulously flown in, brings out the best in Bermuda cuisine. Whether in a high-end restaurant, a traditional hotel dining room or a tavern, you can't go wrong with grilled fish. 
Many visitors end up ensnared in their hotel for all their meals, which is too bad. Hotel menus often seem undecided as to whether to follow trends 50 or only 20 years out of date. We stayed at Cambridge Beaches, Bermuda's oldest resort, at the west end of the island, where our dinners seemed like a throwback, albeit of good quality, with choices like steamed shrimp with smoked salmon, or cream of asparagus soup. Other establishments strained for originality, with tall sculptured ingredients from several continents pacified in a single weird dish.
One strong Bermuda tradition is afternoon tea, and some hotels without restaurants -- like Rosedon, a charming small inn in Hamilton, where we also stayed -- still offer a large teatime spread and an equally serious breakfast.
The broad ethnic mix of island flavors can be grasped in any supermarket, my favorite being Miles' Market, in Hamilton. Alongside a wall of British jams and marmalades, for example, are Greek, Thai, Chinese, Indian, Moroccan, Mexican, Italian, Japanese and Caribbean sauces, spices, chutneys. The frequency of red bean soup on menus will remind you that a quarter of the population is, in some Bermudian sense, Portuguese. 
There's a long tradition here of Italian restaurants. For my wife, Kylee, and me, Little Venice, on Bermudiana Road in downtown Hamilton, had the best cuisine on the island. (We had a regalo vegetariano of wild porcini mushrooms with goat cheese and a cheese fondue sauce, a risotto of sausage and avocado and a fillet of local whitefish with garlic and olive oil.) We also had a fine lunch one day, on a terrace overlooking Hamilton Harbor, at Tuscany, another Italian restaurant of high reputation. I tried a Bermudian specialty, the spicy fish chowder that I probably had once a day during my visit -- done here with a bit more finesse, perhaps, but the same gusto as elsewhere -- and a chicken and mango salad in curry sauce, with strawberries, pineapple and tomatoes. 
Still in Hamilton, Fresco's, on Chancery Lane, with its delicate soups, has a tucked-away wine cellar atmosphere and, since it's a little hidden, tends to attract more local customers than tourists. It also has one of the very best wine lists on the island, reasonably priced considering the usual high import costs. I soon became devoted to the local nonalcoholic ginger beer; the more-or-less official Bermuda drink, the Dark and Stormy, mixes in Gosling's Black Seal rum.
St. George, at the island's eastern end, has a Ye Olde Town Crier touristy aspect in high season, but seaside, right on the main square, the White Horse pub is far better than it has any right to be. Its Bermuda fish chowder may be the best I had -- a combination of a tomato base with a puree of local fish, celery, onion, carrot, that I laced with local black rum and sherry peppers, a kind of good cop-bad cop combination. ("You don't want to watch it being made," a waiter told me. "Let's just say it's various parts of the fish.") Then a superb grilled wahoo. ("Caught in Bermudian waters, man, but I can't say if it was carrying Bermudian papers.") In Hamilton, we became daily habitues of an excellent cafe, Rock Island Coffee, on Reid Street. Another hangout good for learning what's going on is Casey's Lounge, a smoke-wreathed lair on Queen Street where the drinks are actually cheaper than in the United States, and lawyers or bankers still in suits are playing cards with house painters.

THE STYLE
Bermuda's look is a gentle truce between climate and empire: formally relaxed. In Hamilton, you'd never guess that 13,000 registered companies are squeezed into those scalloped stucco buildings of yesteryear with their breezy wooden verandas. Business attire for men is often tie, jacket, shorts and knee socks. For lawyers, it's a half-wig and robes; for magistrates, the full wig. "Never mind summer," one lawyer told me,"you're itchy in any weather in all that clobber." 
If you amble by the shops on Reid or Front Streets, the city (population 1,100) feels resolutely up-market, though without the luxe of, say, St. Bart's. The emporiums bear family names: Trimingham's (est. 1844), Smith's (est. 1889), A. J. Cooper (est. 1897), with its surprising Wedgwood door handles. In short, a world of Irish linen, not sunstruck flesh; indeed, a young woman in a rare miniskirt was stared at as she walked coolly past me one day -- not in disapproval as much as in amazement. 
Though one version of Bermuda begins with sand and ends with sand traps, I was more struck by the past, writ small in a human-scale architecture. In Hamilton, my favorite nook was the Perot Post Office on Queen Street, at the entrance of Par-la-Ville Park, with its white walls and black shutters, its native orchids in planters, its slots marked Local/Boat/Airmail. William Bennett Perot, appointed postmaster in 1821, also built a large house behind a big rubber tree next door, now housing a museum of the Bermuda Historical Society.
Over in Somerset Village, nine miles to the west, I walked one of the most evocative stretches of the old railway trail. The train ran only from 1931 to 1948, before being dismantled soon after cars were permitted on the island. The trail, paved now, wandered through foliage, past limestone shoulders, morning glories and tart loquats that I picked and ate, then became a neighborhood road behind little houses with boats in their gardens. 
Dockyard, at the western tip of the island, was the Royal Navy's base from the early 1800's. A Maritime Museum has exhibits from 16th-century shipwrecks to 1930's cruise ships to the Bermuda fitted dinghy, a 14-foot anomaly with an absurdly tall mast, a huge sail and an inexplicable way of cutting rapidly through rather than over the water. 
Nearby, in the Commissioner's House, the displays devoted to the slave trade, complete with shackles and collars, were enough to make me want to go stand in the sunshine and weep. At least Bermuda, right after the 1834 British decree of abolition, immediately freed its 4,200 slaves -- about half the population.
At the island's eastern end, I spent a day exploring the slow lanes of St. George, the first settlement -- the preserved cottages in lime, lemon, mustard, salmon, set amid palms on Featherbed Alley, Barber's Alley, Pound Alley, Princess Street. It has an array of small, personalized museums: Tucker House, with a George III chamberpot hidden in a mahogany chest of drawers; the Globe Hotel, where blockade runners conspired to outfox Union ships; a homespun Black History Museum with mementos of cricket teams and gombey dancers; a wharfside Town Hall with its signed, faded portraits of Elizabeth and Philip. And there is St. Peter's, the hemisphere's oldest Anglican church continuously in use, its interior rich with the cigar-box fragrance of cedar. 
Bermuda is small but, on the other hand, I haven't seen anywhere else this large without any ugliness. I hadn't expected such a diverse and amiable island. Go for a walk in Hamilton up Cedar Avenue, past the Queen's Club, past a church of Christian Scientists and a house of Bahais, to the Catholic cathedral and its convent next door -- now a mosque. Or, better yet, take a morning stroll in Victoria Park to see the black, white, Asian schoolkids, of every continental extraction and possible mix, hollering and playing hand in hand -- just as, in the Botanical Gardens, I came upon a gigantic banyan tree, with innumerable, ever-multiplying downward roots. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: An interlude in Jobson Cove, one of a chain of secluded niches and sheltered bays along the southern shore of the island.; Top: Boys bury themselves in the pink sands of Horseshoe Bay. Above: In the town of St. George, St. Peter's, is the oldest Anglican church in continuous use in the hemisphere.; A genteel British tradition persists in a game of croquet on the lawn at Cambridge Beaches, a resort and cottage colony at the western tip of the island.; Top: Fresco's, tucked away on Chancery Lane in Hamilton. Above: Local produce. Right: A sushi and pasta appetizer at Waterloo House, a hotel in Hamilton.; Top: Girls, in their Sunday best after church, in Featherbed Lane, St. George. Above: A police constable directs traffic in Hamilton.; Peggy Stelzner, a waitress at Cambridge Beaches and a native of Germany, takes time off to test the gentle surf at Warwick Long Bay. (Ken Kochey for The New York Times) Map (Myra Klockenbrink for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (68%); BEACHES (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); GOLF (65%); THEATER (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: WELLER, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) BERMUDA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GIBRALTAR (79%); GERMANY (72%) BERMUDA

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



378 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: OUR CORRESPONDENT IN PRAGUE; 
Too Picturesque for Its Own Good?

BYLINE:  By Ian Fisher; Ian Fisher is the Prague bureau chief of The New York Times.

 BODY:
The Castle is nice, of course, the Charles Bridge sublime, even with tourists bouncing beerily off one another. But the Prague I like is summed up in an indoor passageway off Wenceslas Square, the city's downtown. Strung from the ceiling is a grand equestrian statue of Good King Wenceslas. He is suitably erect and heroic. His problem, apparently unnoticed by him, is that he is mounted not on the horse's back but on its belly -- and the horse, judging by the dangling tongue, is dead.
 You could go on at some length about this. The statue, by the artist David Cerny, went up after the Velvet Revolution gently brushed away some 45 years of Communism, and maybe -- you can almost hear a tour guide say -- it represents a system that expired long before its leaders realized it. Maybe. Mostly I think the Czechs like a dark little joke. 
 I like the statue on its own, but also because it begs questions that many Czechs, as well as foreigners who have been coming here for a long time, ask these days: Is Prague losing its slightly subversive edge? Is it becoming its own dream -- richer, respectable again, more European, and so a little bland? 
The answer to both questions, to some degree, is probably yes. But for me, two more questions are in order as the Czech Republic prepares to take its place, in 2004, near the top of the former Communist nations to join the European Union: Does it matter? And: Was there any other choice?
When the Berlin Wall fell, the brave went to the Balkans. Crooks and businessmen, often fused into the same person, went to Russia. To Prague went artistic types -- mostly ponytailed Americans, right out of college, who smoked guilt-free cigarettes in basement bars, drank vats of beer and dated women way out of their league. Prague was both dingy and grand. It was possible to feel mournful and confused -- Kafkaesque, if you like -- as well as to harbor a romantic notion that something big was happening, and in a really nice setting. Cheap, too. (This has not changed: a half-liter of some of the world's best beer costs only $1.)
It was this setting that attracted the tourists even before fancy restaurants and galleries sprang up. One popular guidebook damns the Mala Strana quarter, founded some 700 years ago, as being "almost too picturesque for its own good." Much of Prague is equally infected, and its aggressive preservationists intend to keep it that way: a Cubist building here; something fantastic in Art Nouveau (my favorite is the same as a lot of people's, the Grand Hotel Europa, again in Wenceslas Square) there; unexpected corners with structures that date back almost a millennium. Two years ago, I was thrilled at the possibility -- not realized -- of living in an apartment building near Prague Castle dating, at least in part, from 1490.
So tourists still come in huge numbers, gridlocking the Old City and Charles Bridge with their bodies and their crazy hats. These days, Prague seems especially concerned about the rise in package tours for single British men, who, like their trendier American counterparts a decade ago, are looking for beer and women. The differences: They probably spend more money, but they also tend to brawl in bars. Mala Strana is still gorgeous, but it is dotted with gaudy pizzerias and curio shops.
And, amid all the reconstruction and buildings restored to colors like bright pink, Prague has earned the reputation, among more adventurous travelers, as something slightly suspect, like the novel that can't be so great if everyone else, Oprah included, likes it.
(Interestingly, Prague's beauty is also a sore spot among some of its neighbors, notably in Poland to the northeast, whose people resisted the Nazis in a way the Czechs did not and so had their capital, Warsaw, leveled systematically by dynamite. There is a bitter joke Poles tell about a convention of architects from Eastern Europe who argue over which city in the region is the most beautiful. The punch line: Warsaw, the Polish architect tells the one from Prague, "because it was worth fighting for.")
To me, the knock on Prague misses the point. It is beautiful because centuries of Czechs -- and Germans and Jews, before its lovely multiculturalism was killed off in World War II -- made it that way. And, perhaps more than any other of the former Communist nations, the Czech Republic has rejuvenated its capital city physically as part of reclaiming what Czechs regard as their long-denied place in Europe. It is here that you see and feel the change in the region most. Prague is a little more staid than it was a decade ago, maybe, but few people here would trade this life for the old one. And it is not quite stodgy Vienna yet, either.
I first started coming here eight years ago, with Selma, now my wife, who lived in Prague until she was 14. She grew up just north of the Castle, so we would kill time by walking downtown. Prague is, above all, a city for walking. Over the years, taking those walks was like watching a black-and-white movie turn into color. Whole blocks of buildings were reconstructed, painted, reinhabited, not just downtown but in regular neighborhoods. Streets and sidewalks were repaved with cobblestones. Playgrounds appeared. In supermarkets, the old Communist aggression, which amounted to shoving everyone aside to get what little there was, became something like civility, around the growing yogurt section.
Even after the floods last summer -- whose damage was deep but confined to the Vltava River's edge and several neighborhoods outside the center -- reconstruction began immediately, with taste and charm, faithful to Prague's architectural diversity.
Like the citizens of many countries in Eastern Europe, Czechs worried that joining the West would erase their own culture, honed in defiance over years of Communism: the music, the fine dissident literature (Kundera, Klima, Skvorecky, poor Bohumil Hrabal, who, at the age of 82 pitched out a window to his death in 1997), a society that allowed a dissident, jeans-wearing playwright, Vaclav Havel, to be president for 13 years.
It is true, of course, that malls have crept into Prague, that Havel has been replaced by a more conventional politician. But Prague's arts have remained vibrant.Music -- jazz, classical, rock, which stood loudly against the Communist regime -- is still alive and reinventing itself. Home-grown Czech musicals, some awful, but some excellent, have become so popular it is practically impossible to get tickets. Through my brother-in-law, Jan Kalousek, I see a range of Czech pop culture. He is a crooner, though more famous now as a staple in gossip magazines, and has a role in one of the most popular of the musicals, "Cleopatra." The old dissident artists have given birth to a new generation. One example: Petr and Matej Forman, identical twin sons of the Czech film director Milos Forman, who lives in New York, direct a puppet show that is both high art and makes 4-year-olds laugh. That is an old Czech tradition.
Since my first visit, my wife and I have always taken more or less the same route on our walks, now with our two boys. The walk begins in Prague Six, north of the Castle, and where my wife grew up in a drab, concrete prefab apartment complex. Then it is up embassy lane (past where Mr. Havel chose to live, instead of in the Castle). Then past the Church of Loretto with its statue of St. Uncomber, a crucified woman with a beard. Up to the Castle, then down the slope of Nerudova, named after the writer Jan Neruda, who told tales of ordinary life in Mala Strana. Across the Charles Bridge, which can definitely be crowded, to the Old Town square, where the spires, cobblestones and famous astronomical clock are never tiresome. (A tip for tourists: walk a block to the right or left of the gawking crowds and find streets almost always empty.) Off the square, it is possible to catch glimpses of the new elite, amid the boutiques and bistros on Parizska Street, especially beautiful in spring when the linden trees blossom.
From here, it depends on our mood. Sometimes we go to Wenceslas Square, past the refurbished theater where Mozart's "Don Giovanni" had its premiere and Milos Forman filmed "Amadeus." These days, since we have little boys, we eat pizza nearby at a place where the waiters are from Montenegro. They are economic migrants of sorts from the former Yugoslavia, which was at one time so prosperous and Western that it attracted tourists from the rest of Eastern Europe, Prague included.
If Prague's old edginess has receded, its more eternal character shines through -- the ever-changing combination of old and new, stretching back more than a thousand years, reminders everywhere in stone and brick and paint that Communism was a passing phase, not even a very long one. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Charles Bridge. The first statue to be placed there was that of St. John Nepomuk, who was martyred by drowning in 1383.; Old Town Square, surrounded by medieval buildings.; In a passageway off Wenceslas Square, a statue shows the king on an inverted (and obviously dead) horse. (Julie Denesha for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); BEER & ALE (67%); RESTAURANTS (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: FISHER, IAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (91%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%) PRAGUE (CZECH REPUBLIC)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



379 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: The Remains of the Dog 

BYLINE:  By Jay McInerney; Jay McInerney is the author of six novels, including "Bright Lights, Big City," "Brightness Falls" and "Model Behavior." He is working on his seventh.

 BODY:
 THE CURIOUS INCIDENT
OF THE DOG
IN THE NIGHT-TIME
By Mark Haddon.
Illustrated. 226 pp. New York:
Doubleday. $22.95.
 THE difference between literature and its imitations might be defined in any number of ways, but let's be reckless, even elitist, and propose that a literary novel requires new reading skills and teaches them within its pages, while a conventional novel -- whether it is about lawyers or professors or smart single girls -- depends on our ingrained habits of reading and perception, and ultimately confirms them as adequate to our understanding of the world around us. Mark Haddon's stark, funny and original first novel, "The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time," is presented as a detective story. But it eschews most of the furnishings of high-literary enterprise as well as the conventions of genre, disorienting and reorienting the reader to devastating effect.
Fifteen-year-old Christopher Boone of Swindon, England, seems, at first glance, an unpromising narrator for a novel -- a curious hybrid of reliable and unreliable. By his own admission he doesn't like fiction. He is incapable of lying, of understanding metaphor or jokes. He's also incapable of reading any but the most basic of human facial expressions. "Usually people look at you when they're talking to you. I know that they're working out what I'm thinking, but I can't tell what they're thinking. It is like being in a room with a one-way mirror in a spy film." His own range of emotional response is so limited he makes the repressed butler in Kazuo Ishiguro's "Remains of the Day" -- a novel that this one resembles in its elegant economy of means -- seem like Zorba the Greek. 
The book's jacket copy identifies him as an autistic savant, but Christopher tells us all we need to know about his condition without reference to medical terminology -- just as well, since the term "autism" encompasses a variety of symptoms and behavioral problems that are still baffling behavioral scientists. The American Psychiatric Association definition includes "problems with social interaction, verbal and nonverbal communication and a restrictive repertoire of activities and interests." The problems of autism are related to how the brain processes, organizes and retrieves information; Christopher compares his own brain to a computer that is easily overloaded by multitasking. He has a photographic memory and is capable of working out complicated factoring problems in his head but is so overwhelmed by unfamiliar visual or verbal stimuli that sometimes he shuts down, holding his hands over his eyes or his ears while he groans or screams. He abhors physical contact, new environments and the colors yellow and brown. 
Haddon manages to bring us deep inside Christopher's mind and situates us comfortably within his limited, severely logical point of view, to the extent that we begin to question the common sense and the erratic emotionalism of the normal citizens who surround him, as well as our own intuitions and habits of perception.
Christopher's mind is logical and literal in the extreme; early on he suggests that metaphor is a form of lying, pointing out that very few people actually have skeletons in their closets or apples in their eyes. "When I try and make a picture of the phrase in my head it just confuses me because imagining an apple in someone's eye doesn't have anything to do with liking someone a lot and it makes you forget what the person was talking about." Christopher's inability to tell lies is one of the many reasons he has difficulty engaging in, or understanding, normal social intercourse. And his distaste for falsehood is one reason he doesn't like novels, except for murder mysteries, which are essentially puzzles, Sherlock Holmes being his literary hero -- though he has problems with Arthur Conan Doyle, Holmes's creator, who became involved with spiritualism later in life. Christopher's mind is purely scientific.
One of the subtle ironies of the book, given the evolution of the murder mystery detective toward the tough guys of Hammett and Chandler, is that young Christopher is ultimately far more hard-boiled than any gumshoe in previous detective fiction; unlike Sam Spade or Nick Charles, he has no sentimental streak, no underground reservoir of emotional identification with other human beings -- although he is fond of dogs.
When Christopher discovers his neighbor's poodle dead, skewered on a pitchfork, he sets out to solve the mystery and to write a true account of his detective work. In so doing he inadvertently stumbles upon the messy, illogical, emotionally complicated secrets of his parents and their neighbors. And even as he is finally forced to come to some limited accommodation of this knowledge, he makes a kind of plausible case for his own, ostensibly crippled worldview. Perhaps the greatest mystery here is whether Christopher is capable of change -- a question that goes to the heart of certain deeply held convictions about character.
If all this sounds somewhat grim and clinical, it's not. Christopher's skewed perspective and fierce logic make him a superb straight man, if not necessarily a stellar detective. In the course of interrogating one of his neighbors, while waiting impatiently for her to cut the chitchat, he observes: "Mrs. Alexander was doing what is called chatting, where people say things to each other which aren't questions and answers and aren't connected. . . . I tried to do chatting by saying, 'My age is 15 years and 3 months and 3 days.' " His inability to interpret basic social cues results in great moments of deadpan comedy, with strangers as well as with his patient, long-suffering father. 
MIDWAY through the book, Christopher's quest for the dog's murderer becomes a search for his mother, who his father has told him is dead. His solo journey from Swindon to London is, for him, a terrifying leap into the unknown, as suspenseful and harrowing as anything in Conan Doyle. He literally sees everything around him and is unable to edit the onslaught of sensory data in a new environment. And he is afraid of strangers and ill equipped to ask for their help. 
Christopher's book seemingly has a nice tidy ending, as he would have wished -- horrified as he is of indeterminacy. But this tidiness is an illusion, as the gulf between Christopher and his parents, between Christopher and the rest of us, remains immense and mysterious. And that gulf is ultimately the source of this novel's haunting impact. Christopher Boone is an unsolved mystery -- but he is certainly one of the strangest and most convincing characters in recent fiction.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Jeremy Traum) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); AUTISM (85%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (69%); MENTAL HEALTH (68%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (68%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (63%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: MCINERNEY, JAY; HADDON, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); ENGLAND (55%)

TITLE: CURIOUS INCIDENT OF THE DOG IN THE NIGHT-TIME, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



380 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: The Woman Who Kept the Secrets 

BYLINE:  By Sara Mosle; Sara Mosle is working on a book about East Texas in the 1930's.

 BODY:
 LIARS AND SAINTS
By Maile Meloy.
260 pp. New York:
Scribner. $24.
 Every once in a while a book comes along that upends popular notions of American fiction. There is the literature of family dysfunction, often put forward by disgruntled writers who, plumbing their own histories, take revenge on their parents in "Mommie Dearest" style (the more disastrous the breakdown, the better the potential for promotion and sales). There is regional literature, frequently praised, in a kind of backhanded compliment, for its parochial strengths by urban critics who find everyday life in some remote part of the world -- a farm, say, in Nebraska -- exotic and (briefly) interesting. There is the social novel about current events -- "ripped from the headlines," as the promos for "Law & Order" like to say -- which is at times satirical, studded with references to brand names, from Prozac to Prada, that act as a shorthand for character and class. And there is the historical novel, which escapes all that by going back in time, often combining the virtues of regional and social literature in one hefty volume. 
"Liars and Saints," Maile Meloy's spectacular first novel, is at once all of these literatures and none of them. The book follows the Santerres, a French Canadian and American family that settles in Southern California during World War II, through four generations as they crisscross the continent and globe for the next half-century. Propelling them, in part, are the tragic ramifications of a family secret: the beautiful and beguiling Yvette, the matriarch and a devout Roman Catholic, tries to conceal the unwanted pregnancy of her teenage daughter Margot by sending her to France for a supposed "year abroad" with distant relatives. Yvette feigns pregnancy and provokes a fight with her equally religious husband, Teddy, over whether to abort the unexpected child; she then flees in apparent distress to a convent, where she can continue the phantom pregnancy unobserved. Once Margot's baby is due, Yvette flies to France and "delivers" a baby boy. Yvette's other daughter, Clarissa, and Teddy are none the wiser. The boy, Jamie, is ignored by Margot, who craves a return to normality, and he is raised as Yvette's son.
In the hands of a lesser writer, this might have deteriorated into a melodramatic tale of family dysfunction. There is, after all -- in addition to the pregnancy, at the hands of a predatory dancing instructor -- a hippie Jesuit priest who smokes pot with his junior high school charge, an uncle (or so it seems) who impregnates his niece, Yvette's regrettable handling of her teenage son's sexuality (which sends him spiraling out of control for the next two decades) and another father, so consumed by his political career that he notices only after the fact that "his 20-year-old daughter was having a fatherless baby, and was letting cancer go untreated, and had become a fervent Catholic, and his ex-wife was sleeping with a woman who made wedding cakes."
Meloy, however, is too fond of her characters to subscribe to Philip Larkin's view about what mums and dads do. As one family member remarks, "each choice," at the time, "had seemed like the only one possible." That's not to say Meloy doesn't recognize the Santerres' various weaknesses and failures, but she tends to view them with wry humor rather than satirical condescension, noting affectionately of one character that "he could be counted on to do absolutely the wrong thing," as if his dependability were a virtue. Indeed, it's a testament to Meloy's powers of storytelling that by the book's end, the entire family regards the mother, unsentimentally, as a saint, the Jesuit has emerged as a minor hero, and the dance instructor, while not exactly reformed, has been resurrected in a narrative miracle worthy of Easter. 
Much of the novel is set in the West, as were the stories in Meloy's first collection, "Half in Love" (2002), which got her pegged, initially, as something of a regional writer. But in that stunning debut, Meloy already showed an uncanny ability to depict cosmopolitan cities as well as rural communities and different historical periods, conjuring up a no-nonsense ranch girl in Montana, a pampered Parisian aristocrat and a troubled gay diplomat in Saudi Arabia with equal economy and aplomb. Still, her writing follows what E. B. White once called "the neighborhood pattern." He was referring to New York and its collection of small towns, each a few blocks long, in which residents, loyal to their particular neighborhood, conduct the majority of their daily lives. White's comment was meant to defend the city from small-town charges that its teeming hordes are overwhelming and unfriendly. But it perhaps took a farmer from rural Maine, as White was at the time he wrote his essay, to notice that the converse is also true: that a small town is as bustling and socially complicated as any street corner in Manhattan. 
Meloy's genius is to recognize that we all live our lives within a few mental blocks, with our own set of "Winstons five doors down," as the Santerres' neighbors are forever being called, even long after they've moved away. In "Liars and Saints," her characters settle in, among other perfectly rendered places, free-love Hawaii in the 1970's, the Louisiana of rich Southern belles and bohemian Seattle, but the real landscape of the book is the geography of family, with its intimate connections and concerns, no matter how far the Santerres may stray from home. With each successive generation, the family secret gets concealed and takes on new forms, abiding by an underlying logic, like a few city blocks being continually rebuilt over the same grid system. 
The only person Meloy doesn't locate in this context is herself. With admirable restraint, she tells us virtually nothing about her background on this novel's dust jacket. We don't know if she's writing "what she knows." But her command of human nature is such that she writes with authority whether the setting is, however fleetingly, a Navy aircraft carrier, a biology lab or inside an R.V. in New Mexico. Indeed, the book is notable for its lack of place or brand names. Very occasionally, Meloy will mention a political event or a pop song in passing, but history enters her characters' lives not with a capital "H" but in small-letter ways. A daughter forever associates John F. Kennedy's assassination with her husband's sudden change of careers (which, in time, leads to their divorce); a child asks about the lyrics to an Eagles song. But what makes these moments memorable, and roots them in time, are the individuals involved. We don't hear about the feminist or gay rights movements. Instead, as time unfolds, a previously heterosexual daughter begins to date a woman, and a homosexual couple, "Bill and Bill," turn up next door. The family adapts -- or doesn't. 
If this weren't enough, Meloy accomplishes the above -- all these literatures -- not in some sprawling historical novel but in a breathtakingly spare 260 pages. She can telegraph years in a few sentences or lines of dialogue with aching specificity. Here is how she condenses Teddy's return from the Korean War, as seen by his perplexed younger daughter, into a single paragraph: "He didn't dance anyone around the house anymore, and he talked about moving the family away. When he found them coming back from the beach with their mother, all sandy in their swimsuits and squinting in the sun, he seemed angry. He'd say the weather was too good in California, and their lives were too easy, and they should see how the rest of the world lived. They were all rotting from the inside, he said. Clarissa kept her distance from him then."
MELOY is particularly good at teasing out the inner lives of children, and when a precocious kindergartner tries to work out an understanding of religion in our multicultural times, Meloy touches on many of the book's larger themes. "The kids at school -- except Gurpreet, who was Hindu, and Leyla, whose father was Muslim, and Allen, whose mother had been a Rajneeshee in Oregon and didn't like to talk about it -- said that Jesus was the Son of God. They agreed that you went to heaven when you died, and that Santa was real, but the Easter Bunny and the Tooth Fairy were parents. There were a few dissenters about Santa, but they had been mostly silenced. T. J.'s father, when T. J. asked which one was right, and who was real, said that different people believed different things, and that he could choose to believe whatever he wanted. This was not a satisfying answer at all."
Meloy never supplies a definitive answer, but her novel explores religion and faith from nearly every possible angle, with equal empathy for the faithful and doubting alike. In this sense, her book remains agnostic, but you can't help hoping that if God does exist, he -- or she -- looks down on us all with Meloy's generous gaze.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (A.J. Finlayson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); WRITERS (89%); RELIGION (89%); LITERATURE (78%); HISTORY (77%); FAMILY (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (68%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); WORLD WAR II (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: MOSLE, SARA; MELOY, MAILE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (69%); CANADA (54%)

TITLE: LIARS AND SAINTS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



381 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1047 words

PERSON: Armando Falcon Jr. 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
In the Shadow of Freddie Mac

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
FROM his office, which is a block away from the White House, Armando Falcon Jr. regulates two gigantic home mortgage companies that are vital to the economy. Yet few people have ever heard of him or his tiny agency.
 And that might be just fine, except for the bolt of bad news that hit last week, when one of those giants, Freddie Mac, a pillar of the multibillion-dollar mortgage securities market, announced the departure of the three top executives amid an investigation into possible accounting irregularities. Because Mr. Falcon's agency, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, was not the first to blow the whistle on the accounting practices, it has come under scrutiny from Congress. 
 Last Monday, Freddie Mac's board unexpectedly said that it had fired the company's president, David W. Glenn, and accepted the resignations of its chairman and chief executive, Leland C. Brendsel, and its chief financial officer, Vaughn A. Clarke. The departures came just five days after investigators said they found that Mr. Glenn had altered and removed diary entries he made at company meetings. Freddie Mac said the alterations were unrelated to accounting records. The company had announced in January that it would have to restate earnings for 2002, 2001 and perhaps 2000.
The disclosures galvanized legislators from both parties to call for hearings to examine possible wrongdoing not only at Freddie Mac, but also to scrutinize Mr. Falcon's embattled agency, which critics said had coddled Freddie Mac and its larger counterpart, Fannie Mae.
The low-key Mr. Falcon, a former House banking committee staff member appointed to his post by President Bill Clinton, said in an interview in his office last week that his agency had done its job, and that the oversight process had worked.
"Our job is not to run the company," Mr. Falcon, a native of San Antonio, said in an interview in his office overlooking the Old Executive Office Building, "but to make sure it is safe and sound."
Mr. Falcon, who has a law degree from the University of Texas and a master's degree in publicpolicy from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, acknowledged that there was still room for new revelations about Freddie Mac's financial practices. He said his agency had been closely involved since differences cropped up between Freddie Mac's former auditor, Arthur Andersen, and its replacement, PricewaterhouseCoopers, over how hedging transactions were booked.
The current crisis began to unfold on June 4 -- Mr. Falcon's 43rd birthday -- when he learned that there were problems with cooperation in the board's internal investigation of the accounting problem.
"The board informed us as soon as it was done," he said, referring to the executive changes on Friday, June 6, which directors approved last Sunday and made public on Monday. Mr. Falcon said that he met with James R. Doty, a lawyer conducting the internal investigation, on June 7, and "we appointed our team of six people, and started work on Sunday."
The examiners and other specialists are looking into deficiencies in accounting practices and controls, and any possible employee misconduct, he said. It expects to make public its findings within 90 days.
Mr. Falcon -- who, as a Clinton appointee, is scheduled to be replaced with a Bush administration candidate -- could be gone by that time, with the agency's troubles landing squarely in the lap of his successor, Mark C. Brickell, a former managing director at J. P. Morgan Securities and the chief executive of Blackbird Holdings, which ran an electronic exchange for derivatives contracts.
Before being appointed to oversee Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, Mr. Falcon spent eight years working for Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, Democrat of Texas, who was then the chairman of the House Banking Committee. After rising to general counsel of the committee, Mr. Falcon left in 1997 to run against Mr. Gonzalez's son, Charlie, in the Democratic primary for a House seat representing San Antonio. Mr. Falcon lost.
In 1999, he settled in as the director of the agency overseeing the mortgage giants, only to find that he might have walked into the ultimate no-win job. On one side, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as government-sponsored mortgage lenders, have enough political influence to resist oversight. Pushing back from the other side is the private mortgage industry, which would like to crimp the two companies' rapid growth.
Squeezed in the middle, Mr. Falcon said he focused on building up his 140-member staff by adding more examiners and other specialists, and by increasing its budget, to $32 million from $16 million.
But the shake-up at Freddie Mac last week blasted long-simmering concerns about the regulator to the surface. William Michael House, the executive director of FM Watch, a group of seven mortgage associations, accused Mr. Falcon's agency of being "more of a cheerleader than a regulator."
The agency was established in 1992 to guard against a recurrence of the excesses that had led to the savings-and-loan debacle of the 1980's. But the agency's oversight is split, with the Department of Housing and Urban Development watching over some of Freddie Mac's work.
From the time it was created in 1992, Mr. Falcon's agency had trouble fulfilling its key mission of devising a "stress test" to measure the companies' capital adequacy in worst-case situations. Mr. Falcon, who blamed a lack of financial support from Congress for the time required to do the job, got the mechanism in place in 2001.
But that has not quelled his critics. Representative Richard H. Baker, Republican of Louisiana, who heads the subcommittee that oversees Freddie Mac, said Mr. Falcon's office was not equipped to handle "the extremely complex and expanding universe" of the mortgage providers. Mr. Falcon's supporters say that blaming his office is unfair, because even Mr. Baker had declared publicly that "I've said repeatedly that Fannie and Freddie are managed well."
When the White House cut a year off his five-year term in February, Mr. Falcon decided not to fight it and agreed to resign. Because his wife, Rosemary, works in Mount Vernon, Va., and the couple have two girls 8 and 13, in school, he said he would stay in Washington and work on public policy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Armando Falcon Jr. is the departing director of the federal agency that regulates two giant pillars of the home mortage securities market. (Evan Vucci for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (75%); DISMISSALS (75%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ETHICS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (61%) HOUSING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MORTGAGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (83%) OFFICE OF FEDERAL HOUSING ENTERPRISE OVERSIGHT; FANNIE MAE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%) SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES; 

BILL CLINTON (58%) OLSON, ELIZABETH; FALCON, ARMANDO JR

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (53%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



382 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS IN BRIEF: NONFICTION 

BYLINE:  By Sherie Posesorski 

 BODY:
 TURNING THE WHEEL
Essays on Buddhism and Writing.
By Charles Johnson.
Scribner, $23.
 Since adolescence Charles Johnson has been haunted by the plangent question posed in 1926 by W. E. B. Du Bois: "What we do want? What is the thing we are after?" He sees his work as a writer of philosophical fiction and nonfiction, and as a teacher,as well as his decision to practice Buddhism, as his response -- a "lifelong meditation on what it means to be free." The central leitmotifs of the lucid, fervently reasoned essays collected in "Turning the Wheel" are "enlightenment and liberation." In Johnson's essays on Buddhism, he illuminates its beliefs and observances and their formative influence on his life and writing. He then argues that Buddhist principles underlay the civil rights movement -- Du Bois's struggle for the "complete advancement of black Americans, spiritual as well as political, cultural as well as economic" and Martin Luther King Jr.'s leadership and "dream of the 'beloved community.' " Through the purview of Buddhist philosophy, Johnson provides nuanced appreciations of Jean Toomer and Ralph Ellison. In the concluding autobiographical essays, Johnson affectionately recalls family members and his teacher and mentor, John Gardner, who opened "Dharma doors" that transformed his life into an "adventure of learning and growth and service." Sherie Posesorski

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (72%) POSESORSKI, SHERIE; JOHNSON, CHARLES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%)

TITLE: TURNING THE WHEEL (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



383 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 7263 words

HEADLINE: Going for Broke 

BYLINE:  By Jennifer Senior; Jennifer Senior is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
George E. Pataki has often professed his commitment to the education of each and every child in New York. But Dan Klores, a well-known public relations guru, never realized just how literally the governor took this pledge until one Friday morning some 18 months ago.
 "Dan?" His wife popped her head in their bedroom door. "Governor Pataki's on the phone." 
 Governor Pataki? Not only had Klores never spoken with the governor, but he had just begun helping to formulate a campaign strategy for Andrew Cuomo, one of Pataki's potential rivals in the coming fall election. 
He picked up the phone.
"And it was him, not someone making the call for him," Klores marvels. "And he said -- you could almost tell he had a script in front of him -- 'I hear you're trying to get your son Jake into Temple Emanu-El nursery school. Would you mind if I made a call to help you?' "
Klores had no idea what to say. The governor added, "I hear you're a great guy but politically misguided.' " That made Klores laugh. "Of course I wouldn't mind," he said. "But Governor, you have to understand: Andrew Cuomo is one of my best friends. If you make this call, I'm still going to do everything I can to get him elected. But I'll tell you what: I'm going to vote for you.' "
The governor also laughed, told him fine and hung up. "It was such a brilliant move," Klores says. "I ran into him a couple of months later at a Knicks game. And I told him, 'No matter what happens during this campaign, I will never go negative on you.' And I didn't."
I point out that many interest groups the governor wooed last fall -- like the New York City teachers' union, for which he worked to provide a historically large raise, or the health care workers' union, for which he worked to secure an unusually large contract -- probably felt similarly indebted on Election Day.
"Yeah, well, I guess those days are over," Klores says. "Until he runs again for something."
Last fall, George Pataki was soliciting the Democratic vote with spirited promiscuity, pushing a women's wellness bill through the Legislature, promising a popular bill on gay rights and spending money like a sugar daddy. By Nov. 4, the Republican governor had landed the endorsement of a raft of traditionally Democratic interest groups. On Election Day, he won with margins wide enough to plow.
This spring, however, was the end of Pataki's bartering season. Faced with an $11.5 billion deficit and no new revenue streams in sight, he dug in his heels and declared he would not contemplate raising taxes. He said it was a matter of philosophical principle; the members of New York State Legislature, galled that his principles were finally making an appearance after slumbering all autumn, flew into open revolt.
The Democratic Assembly and Republican Senate joined together and passed a budget that raised taxes. When the governor vetoed it on May 14, they overrode him within 24 hours. A recent poll places the governor's approval rating at an all-time low of 37 percent, and the members of his Legislature are freely venting their disgust. "I have never," says Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican leader of the New York State Senate and Pataki's habitual ally, "been this far apart from the governor."
Of course, it isn't unusual, at this bleak moment in the economy, for governors to find themselves so angrily pushed to the sidelines. It's the sort of thing that happens when states go broke and the federal government declines to bail them out. In late April, I asked Mike Huckabee, the governor of Arkansas, whether any governors were currently enjoying their jobs. He thought for a moment. "Well," he finally answered, "if they are, they're keeping it to themselves, because we'd all club them with large bats."
It is, however, highly unusual for George Pataki to be the object of seething resentment. This is a man who spent the great bulk of his tenure without generating much public feeling of any kind at all -- evading the spotlight, speaking in bumper stickers, blending like tofu into his surroundings. Yet today, only a small fraction of the electorate still trusts him. New York City residents are convinced he's trying to bleed them dry, voters upstate and in the suburbs are convinced he's trying to starve their schools, the unions that supported him in October were picketing him by April and state conservatives -- well, they gave up on the governor ages ago, fed up with his willingness to spend his way into voters' good graces.
Ordinarily, in times of crisis, politicians rely on their core supporters. But the economic downturn exposed the basic paradox of George Pataki, which Mario Cuomo and two subsequent challengers could not: he has no natural base. Like other Republicans who have tried to subdue a strongly Democratic state, he has been living in a tremulous state of equipoise, as if perched on top of a bowling ball. "Liberals are always grumbling because he's insufficiently liberal, and conservatives are always grumbling because Pataki's selling out," says Stephen Moore, president of Club for Growth, an influential Washington-based conservative group. "So he's an orphan, sort of. He's been liked. But not loved."
In fact, the last significant Republican to hold three consecutive statewide terms was Pataki's patron, the former senator Alfonse D'Amato, who was swept into office during the 1980 Reagan revolution, just as Pataki was swept in during the Gingrich revolution of 1994. And D'Amato managed to stay in office much the same way: by gamely wheeling and dealing with Democrats and running against a string of weak opponents. When Charles Schumer, a bright, scrappy Democratic congressman from Brooklyn, came along, D'Amato's string of good luck ran out. Moore wonders if this budget crisis might serve the same function for Pataki -- foreclosing any future in elected office and sending him out on a very low note. "In retrospect," he says, "the governor might have been better off not running for a third term at all."
Pataki dismisses such sentiments as alarmist, shortsighted. History, he insists, will show that he provided the real leadership during this difficult time while the Legislature faltered.
"I don't mean to be a psychoanalyst here," he said as he swirled ice cubes into a beer at a New York City pub a few weeks ago, "but I think one of the reasons the Legislature is angry is because they understand they did the wrong thing. You have to blame somebody for having done that."
I asked if it was possible that he, too, made some tactical errors.
"No."
None? 
"You can't go through anything, whether it's a campaign or a day, where you'd say, 'I wouldn't change a thing.' "
So what would he redo?
"I'd have continued to present the same budget. I'd have fought the fight."
Which in fact sounds a great deal like "I wouldn't change a thing." Despite the fact that he lost that fight and all his Senate allies in the process, he said he has only one regret: "The result."
Pataki has been down this road before. Whenever he has enraged his colleagues -- truly enraged them -- it has been part of a careful calculation, and it has paid off in some finer career dividend. In 1992, for example, when he was still a member of the New York State Assembly, he shocked everyone in Albany by challenging Mary B. Goodhue, his 70-year-old friend and mentor, who also happened to be the only female Republican in the Senate. But he won. The following year, Pataki grandly protested the excesses of the budget that the Legislature had forged with Mario Cuomo. His colleagues wheedled, cajoled, even held a marathon closed-door conference to try to change his mind, and he spent the rest of the year in tense estrangement. But then he converted this act of defiance into a gubernatorial platform. And again, he won.
Today, many in Washington and Albany say that Pataki has made a similar calculation. Though he publicly claims not to be bored with his job, privately he refers to himself as a lame duck. "Last year, I didn't even think he was going to run again," says Peter Vallone, the former speaker of the New York City Council. "Because every time I saw him in Albany, he wasn't happy. He was always totally frustrated with the lack of give on both sides of the aisle."
At this point, lawmakers on both sides of the aisle would be perfectly delighted to see the governor go. In fact the members of his own party would be happiest of all. Poke a Republican state senator, almost any at all, and a vat of bile comes rushing out. After passing so many left-leaning bills on his behalf, they can hardly believe the extreme conservatism of the budget they were asked to pass -- which forced them into the arms of the Democrats all over again.
"Hey, it wasn't like he was well loved when he was in the State Senate," says Tom Reynolds, a Republican congressman and a confidant of Pataki's. "By the end, he had two choices: either run for governor, or run his farm in Peekskill." It was up or out, in other words. Which seems to be the situation he's in today. 
"The most frequent barroom and hallway explanation I've heard in Albany is that he's running for vice president," says Randi Weingarten, president of the union representing New York City public-school teachers. 
"What he wants," Moore declares, "is to be president. I briefly worked for him in 1999, as an economic adviser, when he was considering running back then."
Looked at a certain way, Pataki has a better shot at the presidency than any New Yorker ought to. Though the state has produced some vivid political personalities in recent years -- Ed Koch, Alfonse D'Amato, Mario Cuomo, the late Daniel Patrick Moynihan -- their appeal beyond the Hudson River was always uncertain; they were too vainglorious, or too highbrow, or too crazy, or bullying, or brusque, or (at any rate, in every case) too conspicuously New York. Pataki, on the other hand, is a soothing and homogenized factory product, as lab-created and test-marketed as Kraft Singles. He's the first politician to reflect the new suburban-and-upstate power base of the state, whose composition more closely resembles that of the national electorate. "George Pataki's style seems more like a Midwestern governor's," Rudolph Giuliani says. "You could see him running Ohio or Illinois. But maybe that's really good, because it sort of ties us to the rest of the country."
For most Republicans in the rest of the country, however -- especially those in Washington -- the idea of a Catholic, pro-choice, pro-gay-rights, pro-gun-control candidate with a history of cozying up to unions is utterly risible. Pataki has made a career of defying expectations -- in Peekskill, the State Senate and the Governor's Mansion, and perhaps he thinks he can do it again. But this time, he would be playing on an incomparably larger field, with much longer odds and very different rules.
So New York could be the end of the political road for Pataki. And if the economy doesn't improve, and if he continues to fight with his own Legislature, the man who had so shrewdly timed his risks could exit political life an outcast. Too conservative for liberals, too liberal for conservatives. Overqualified for all the dull cabinet positions in the Bush administration, underqualified for all the good ones. Too Nebraska for New York, too New York for Nebraska.
That would be a sad ending to his story -- not unlike the ending Mario Cuomo had, when he left office in a plume of high deficits and thwarted ambitions. And it's not unlike the ending Giuliani was headed for, had Sept. 11 not violently rewritten his final act. 
"La familia Pena-Herrera sufrio una tragedia. . . . "
Sitting in the back of his car, unfurling a leg so long it creeps between the two front seats, Pataki is testing out his speech on Mel Cartright, his designated state trooper and unofficial Spanish tutor. The content of the speech -- stricter penalties for drunken drivers -- is unobjectionable, but its timing might raise eyebrows: it's April 11. He and his legislators are at a hostile impasse, and he is now 130 miles south of Albany.
"How bad was that?"
"Es tra-GE-di-a," Cartright says, correcting his emphasis.
"Ah. Trah-HAY-di-as. Si." Tragedy.
When Mario Cuomo was doing battle with the Legislature, he'd be in his office early, making phone calls, convening meetings, hounding aides. ("Mario wasn't happy unless he had his green eye shade on and his quill pen out," says Martin Connor, a Democratic state senator.) The same cannot be said of Pataki, who has long kept the Legislature at arm's length. When he first took over the governor's suites in 1995, he installed a desk with a state trooper at the entrance, which made it difficult for legislators to pop in. He does not live in the Governor's Mansion; when he spends evenings there, he seldom has members over. The governor's staff has sometimes spoken about the members of the Legislature as if they were a bunch of fractious parochial-school adolescents (which may not be entirely unfair), and today he barely has a functioning legislative-liaison office. 
"Y Borrrr-ACH-o," Cartright continues. Drunk.
"Bo-RACH-o," Pataki says.
Of course, there's a reason Pataki lurches into campaign mode when things get tough in legislative chambers: he's great at it. On television, his speeches (at least until recently) were positively narcotizing. But television misses the more tactile, interactive parts of these gatherings. He lingers on handshakes, makes easygoing chitchat; with his long arms, he seems genetically engineered to hug. In person he is warm, funny, charismatic. Ask what part of his job he likes most, and he answers: "Being with people. Ordinary people."
What about Albany? Is there anything about the process of passing laws he has grown to love? The governor stares. "I'm not a big process person," he says, after a second of deadpan silence. "I like to envision where you want to get to, and try to figure out how to get there."
Delivering uninspired oratory but relaxing everyone in his path, thinking in broad strokes but allowing others to follow through on the details -- those traits sound an awful lot like those of another Republican executive, in a capital one shuttle ride away. "Both George Bush and George Pataki are approachable, friendly, underestimated by consiglieres," says Karl Rove, the president's senior political adviser. "They're both loyal and not knee-jerk partisans. They both talk about what they're for, rather than tearing someone else down."
They've also each courted the Latino vote. The governor made a smart move when he decided to learn Spanish a few years ago. But it suited his temperament, too, allowing him to mingle with more constituents. He has also picked up French, German and Hungarian. "Les langues m'interesser tres!" he declares. Languages to interest me very!
Pataki's communications director, Lisa Dewald Stoll, looks up from her papers, vaguely concerned. "I have no idea what you're saying."
"I just came out for a massive income tax increase in French."
She gives her eyes an extravagant roll.
Pataki may be able to speak five languages, but throughout his tenure people have doubted that they really understood him -- or what he believed in. Back in February, at a specially-convened dinner in a supporter's Manhattan town house, the governor told the select crowd that they were going to see "the real George Pataki" emerge in this, his third term. It was an attempt to reassure them that he shared their views, but it seemed more like an admission that he had previously said whatever was necessary to get himself elected.
That's how it looks to a great many others too. "He has no discernible ideology in any direction," says Tom Carroll, head of the now-defunct Change-New York, representing the disgruntled right. 
"What the governor has done is whatever is popular at the moment," says Mario Cuomo, representing the disgruntled (and defeated) left.
"It could be that when he first ran, he ran right, and that when he ran this last time, he drifted left," says Randi Weingarten, who isn't so much disgruntled as confused -- Pataki worked to provide large pay raises for the members of her teachers' union before the election, then issued a budget that called for about $1.24 billion in education cuts. "Or it could be that he believes in these things. At this point, I don't know which theory is right."
Pataki will at least admit to one flip-flop overthe course of his eight-and-a-half-year tenure. In his first State of the State address in 1995, he flatly declared he wouldn't run for a third term, because he said he believed in term limits. ("I now know better than to make flat statements," he says.) But few things make the ordinarily sunny governor more prickly than questions about his ideological moorings. "I think in the first term the real George Pataki came through, and in the second one the real George Pataki came through, and in the third term, again, people will see the real George Pataki," he says, his voice tinged with irritation, as he stabs a forkful of salmon at the Governor's Mansion in late April. "Everything has been consistent. I've always gone out of my way to be as real as I can."
And so he may have done. But getting there has taken him along a tortuous path of extremely well timed pirouettes. While still a member of the State Legislature, for example, Pataki railed against big budgets, voted against clinic-access bills and Medicaid financing for abortion, opposed anti-discrimination laws for gay men and women and advocated the death penalty -- an argument he made a central plank in his 1994 gubernatorial campaign. Then he won that campaign. And by the beginning of his second term, he'd signed a clinic-access bill and was authorizing budgets with Medicaid financing for abortions. He reinstated the death penalty, but layered it with so many restrictions that the state has yet to execute a single prisoner. And though he diligently trimmed spending and lowered taxes his first two years, he started spending lavishly once the bull market plumped up the state treasury. "He went bananas, like a friend who goes off and starts drinking again," says Richard Gilder, former chairman of the conservative Manhattan Institute. "Though I do think his heart is in the right place."
The philosophy of any public official, of course, is allowed to evolve. But on a few notable occasions, Pataki has evolved at campaign time, or when his back was pressed against the wall. When Pataki first entered the State Capitol in 1995, for example, he showed little interest in dealing with Dennis Rivera, the savvy head of 1199/S.E.I.U., the health care workers' union. Then the union started running television ads against Pataki's Medicaid spending cuts. "He basically called me out of the blue," Rivera recalls. "And he said: 'I don't want to fight you anymore. I'd like to meet you.' So we met over wine." The union remained neutral in the 1998 election. Last year, facing historic deficits but also an election, Pataki supported a large wage increase for the union. It formally endorsed him.
Pataki has an almost identical history with Empire State Pride Agenda, New York's most influential gay-and-lesbian organization. Right before his re-election campaign in 1998, the group started hammering away at him for cutting one of its favorite programs. He agreed to restore it partly, and the group held its tongue. By 2000, he'd signed a hate crimes bill, and in October 2002, just days before the election, he moved on an anti-discrimination bill. The group endorsed him. 
People who try to divine the ideology behind the governor's pirouettes miss the point. It's pragmatism that has guided most of Pataki's political decisions. In fact, pragmatism has been the survival tactic for Republicans in this state for quite some time -- D'Amato was so good at it that many Democrats preferred doing business with him than with their fellow Democrat Daniel Patrick Moynihan. Until now it has served both New York and the governor well. But what happens when the desires of his constituents are at odds with the needs of his career? 
Back in September, Bruno publicly warned that the deficit for the following year would probably be around $10 billion. The governor responded he had no idea where Bruno was getting his numbers. Which is not the same, it should be noted, as saying that Bruno was wrong. The senate majority leader subsequently mentioned to him -- in private this time -- that Pataki should find some way to add extra revenues to the budget before the election, in order to stave off a fiscal disaster. "But he was preoccupied with what was going on in his life," Bruno says, "which was getting re-elected."
Pataki insists he still didn't know about the $11.5 billion deficit -- "I thought it was going to be significantly lower," he says. The Senate Republicans, at any rate, are having none of it. Last month, Bruno stopped just short of calling him a liar. The rest of the Republican senators stop just short of declaring they've been burned at the altar of the governor's ambitions. 
Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York City, has never let slip a stray word about the governor. And Pataki has been a forceful presence in the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan, setting a firm timetable and committing the governor's office to be a tenant of Daniel Libeskind's new building. But the financial support Bloomberg got from him since Sept. 11 has clearly been less than the mayor expected. During Pataki's re-election campaign, Bloomberg gave him at least two fund-raisers, one at $15,000 a plate, and did him the favor of keeping mum about the commuter tax that City Hall was so urgently counting on. Prominent New York Democrats told the mayor the campaign was the perfect time to get the governor on record about just how much he'd help the city. But Bloomberg chose not to pursue such a crass prenuptial agreement. Then, in late summer, he discovered a series of ads on radio and television from the Pataki campaign opposing the commuter tax. Still desperate to close the $6 billion budget gap the city was facing, Bloomberg worked the phone tirelessly and made numerous trips up to Albany. But he always returned empty-handed.
"I think Bloomberg started off with a little political naivete," ventures Guy Molinari, the former Staten Island borough president. (Bloomberg himself declined an interview for this story.) "I think he felt that if he made a case based on merit, he'd achieve a goal." He ponders this idea. "You also see a remarkable difference between what Pataki does and Bloomberg does," he adds. "If there are political chits to pick up, Pataki will pick them up. And Bloomberg won't." 
Case in point: just as the budget battle was slouching toward its ugly finish, Pataki nominated Diana Taylor to be the next state banking superintendent. By all accounts, she was qualified for the job, and she had held several jobs in the Pataki administration. But she also happened to be dating Bloomberg. The timing -- and the decision -- was impeccable. The governor managed to keep giving, even as he was trying to take away. 
Pataki is in his S.U.V. again, his six-foot-five frame collapsed in thirds, like a deck chair. "Straight ahead is Mount Beacon," he says, pointing with his Fresca bottle. "What's interesting is, Mount Beacon is where they first identified a separate species of hemlock. And the weeping hemlock is going to be an important part of the garden at -- " He gets distracted by something and motions at his driver. "Hey, Bobby! There's a motorcycle for sale!"
It's Earth Day -- a good day for Pataki, who even the crankiest Democrats concede has a fine record on the environment -- and we're going hiking in Fahnestock State Park. "Isn't this magnificent?" He points to a ravishing, lacy stretch of marshland. "I still think they should be called 'swamps' and not 'wetlands.' 'Wetlands' is a yuppied effort to make something more attractive. What's wrong with a swamp?"
Swamps, woodpeckers, snake dens, stone-wall formations: the governor's inner dork pours endearingly forth in anticipation of this setting. You can see the vestiges of the Peekskill farm kid who made his own radios, the mailman's son who showed up his freshman year at Yale in thick glasses and trousers that were too short. 
I ask him why, after eight and a half years, the public has never seen any hint of his natural looseness or sense of humor. Both drain right out of him. "I don't know. Ask the press."
But it's not just the press. 
"I don't know. That's just me. I can't worry about people."
I tell him it'd be nice to have his musings about it.
He's silent. "I just mused," he insists. Then he laughs. "I mused." 
In early 1994, John Zogby, a pollster in upstate New York, did a survey comparing the performance of each of eight Republicans in mock races against the incumbent governor, Mario Cuomo. At the last moment, he threw in Pataki's name. He came in last. But Pataki was still a virtual unknown. "So at the very end of the poll," Zogby explains, "we also said: 'What if you knew that George Pataki was the father of four, ran the family farm, was the mayor of Peekskill and had served four terms in the State Assembly and one in the Senate? Now, knowing what you know, whom would you vote for?' " 
Pataki pulled ahead of Cuomo, beating him by a 10-point margin: 41 to 31.
"The thing is," he slowly says, "nine years later, I don't know that George Pataki is any more than what he was in that one paragraph. Except you can now add three terms as governor."
It takes effort to remain that opaque, particularly in a media market like New York's. Part of it is that Pataki isn't driven by the same aggression and libidinal chaos that propel most men into public office. He's not angling to seduce everyone, as Bill Clinton always was; unlike Koch and D'Amato and Cuomo and Giuliani, he's not always spoiling for a fight. His ego is balanced, a true rarity in politics.
But dullness is also a shrewd media strategy. The governor almost never loses his temper publicly. His press conferences are rare, brief and uncontroversial. And he famously, comically, refuses to stray from the script. "In his early years as governor," Tom Carroll says, "you could ask him about the weather or how his kids were doing at Yale, and he'd still respond with a set message about tax cuts."
To ensure the maximum adherence to the message of the day, Pataki has always surrounded himself with painfully media-conscious advisers, who on their own time are a real "South Park" gang of vulgarians. Most are former employees of the original South Parker of New York politics, Senator Alfonse D'Amato (now on Park Avenue South, in his retirement). To hear them speak, it is sometimes hard to believe they're responsible for the governor's bland image and press strategy. To print most of what they say would be an exercise in reading around asterisks -- and yet it works. A former Pataki appointee recalls watching a new hire field a difficult phone call from a journalist. "Just tell them the governor's for lower taxes and the death penalty," screamed Zenia Mucha, his bellicose former communicationsdirector.
Pataki's aides complain that spontaneity in politicians is overvalued by the media. But Pataki pushes this idea to the breaking point. I asked him, for example, about Trent Lott, the Mississippi Republican whose nostalgic remarks about segregation cost him the title of senate majority leader. Had the governor issued a statement condemning them? At first, he said yes. A few minutes later, he said no. Then he said he couldn't remember. "I'm not exactly sure what we put out. Or didn't," he said. "I know I was asked. And I made it plain then that I thought it was wrong."
Alfonse D'Amato sits at his desk in his Park Avenue office, having a glass of extremely fine red wine, defending the man he handpicked nine years ago to defeat Mario Cuomo. "There is not a governor who ran in 2002 who said, 'I'm gonna raise taxes to cure the deficit,"' he says. Neither did most of their challengers, for that matter, including Carl McCall. In fact, McCall pledged not to raise them. "None!" he continues. "So why would you expect George Pataki to do something so idiotic?"
An appreciation for Realpolitik is one of the many things that D'Amato has passed on to his political protege. He has also passed on his communications directors (first Mucha, later Dewald Stoll), his chief fund-raiser (Charles Gargano, now head of the Empire State Development Corporation) and his two primary political strategists (the elusive Arthur Finkelstein; the garrulous Kieran Mahoney). Many of his friends are still the heads of New York agencies. The state wiring diagram, in fact, is still a series of loops connecting the former senator and the current governor. And the two men still socialize and speak frequently.
"If George Pataki raised taxes," D'Amato adds, "there'd be no discipline. There'd be spending on every cat and dog. And remember, when I was in office I was the biggest violator of that rule. I said, 'I'm going to get as much as I can for my state.' I never saw a road that New York didn't need. Or a bridge. Or a hospital. Or a program. Or a railroad."
The state certainly benefited from this arrangement, but so did all the contractors who oversaw the projects, and many of them subsequently became big donors to D'Amato and, in turn, to the giant Republican political machine the senator built. Because George Pataki is a tall, firm-boned graduate of Yale, it's easy to overlook the fact that he came up through this very machine. It's one reason he's so good at street politics.
D'Amato's assistant walks in, alerting him to a phone call from a former associate. 
"You need a spanking," D'Amato barks at the caller. "Or worse. You need -- " The rest of this sentence is unprintable. "You know what your problem is? You're working with these bloodsucking expletive , and you're becoming one. And you better make up with your lady friend! Because she'll -- " This sentence also ends badly.
"Well, you're my former protege," he says. "And I still love ya. But you don't steal a client from a friend. And you better call that lady and make love to her. Because she'll kill you. She will."
He hangs up and gloats. It occurs to me that perhaps one reason Pataki's handlers control him so tightly is that they all used to work for D'Amato.
"Well, look," he says. "You know, I was excessive, singing 'Old MacDonald' on the Senate floor -- 'Here a pork, there a pork, everywhere a pork-pork."' He might also have added calling Senator Charles Schumer "a putzhead" and doing a flagrantly racist impression of Judge Lance Ito. "So I think that maybe the people who worked with me were more sensitive to the fact that I had foot-and-mouth disease, which hurt me politically," he says. "It could be some kind of psychological thing, where they say, 'Look at Alfonse -- he had a promising career until he shot off his mouth one too many times.' "
The French ambassador suddenly appears on Fox News, which has been running on mute during our discussion. D'Amato scowls and uncurls his middle finger. "Weasel!" he shouts.
The governor is crunching along the hiking trail in Fahnestock State Park. Up in Albany, members of the Legislature are working on a budget of their own.
Are there moments, I ask him, when he ever wakes up in the middle of the night and thinks, What if I am blamed for the worst fiscal crisis in state history?
He chuckles. "No. Nooo. No. Never." 
He's silent for a bit. "We've laid out what I think is a good and reasonable solution," he says. "And assuming the Legislature ever acts, we will get through this time." 
He points at a blade of grass. "Hey. Look at that. It's a spring azure butterfly."
Whenever the governor sits at his desk in his private office, his head is crowned by a flock of stuffed birds that sit on a shelf behind him, giving him the look of a cartoon character who has been sucker-punched. And in a sense, that's what happened today, April 29: the New York State Legislature began voting to enact the budget Pataki deemed so ruinous to New York. Yet the governor is calm, almost sanguine, with no circles under his eyes, no anxiety distorting his face.
"I might turn it around," he says. "But tell me, why is it -- and this is something I found most frustrating as a legislator -- why is it that the members of each party delegate their responsibilities to one individual? That I have to negotiate with only two people is a very systemic flaw. If they hadn't delegated that authority, I'd talk to the legislators. I think the vast majority of the legislators in the Senate share my philosophy."
Pataki has complained before about the system in Albany, whereby decisions are made by three men in a room: the assembly speaker, the senate majority leader and the governor. But for the governor to blame that system for his current predicament seems a stretch. Most members of the Legislature will freely tell you that Pataki's ruling style is imperious, mysterious, aloof -- that he keeps his cards so close to his chest you can barely distinguish them from his shirt.
To lay this crisis at the feet of the State Senate's 74-year-old majority leader, Joseph Bruno, also strains credulity. Bruno is an old-fashioned politician, a guy with a horse farm, the sort who observes gentlemanly conventions of comity and cooperation. Pataki would never have been able to pass so many of those liberal bills if Bruno hadn't persuaded his fellow Republicans to do so -- sometimes against extreme odds. (The gay anti-discrimination bill, for example, started with only a handful of votes.) When the governor announced he'd be proposing a gun-control bill in 2000, Bruno and his colleagues first learned about it from watching ABC News. That didn't go over well. 
This year, however, Pataki put his Legislature in a position that even Bruno could not finesse. Pataki repeatedly declared he'd support no "job killing" new taxes, thus painting himself (and his lawmakers) into a corner; in January, he proposed a budget with cuts in education and health care so deep that any senator or assemblyman who supported them would have been run out of the district by an angry mob. Though Pataki has denied it, legislative leaders say he indicated that he wouldconsider raising New York's sales tax -- one of the few taxes that the elders of the national Republican Party might tolerate -- and let Bruno know he'd be willing to restore about $1.6 billion in spending. So Bruno and Sheldon Silver, the Democratic assembly speaker, went back to the books and came up with a budget that he thought would do the trick. Pataki disagreed. 
In previous odd-numbered years, the budget might have played out differently. But this year the state's coffers were empty; the Democrats controlled enough seats to override a veto; and the governor no longer had a goon squad to deliver votes for him. And this year, maybe for the first time, the distant goal of Washington seemed to matter more than the immediate conflict in Albany. So rather than trying to close the distance between the two positions, he simply walked away. 
If it was just Pataki's negotiating strategy, then clearly he didn't anticipate its effect: it drove Bruno into the arms of Silver, whom he and Pataki had so long conspired to contain. Together, Bruno and Silver hammered out a budget -- one that, unlike anything Bruno might have worked out with the governor, contained a personal income tax increase, a national Republican taboo. If it was just Bruno's negotiating strategy, then clearly he didn't anticipate that the governor would be so obstinate that he'd even allow an income tax increase on the wealthy to soar through on his watch. But as Tom Libous, a Republican senator and close ally of the governor's, says, "When this guy digs in, he's not going to move." 
Among certain constituencies -- people at the far end of either wing, generally -- it is now fashionable to suggest that the feuding between the governor and his two legislative leaders was all just an elaborately scripted work of political theater: Pataki knew his budget was untenable, and he knew the Legislature would come up with something more realistic. He'd get to look like a fiscal hawk, but New York would get the money it needed.
But that wouldn't account for how much he's now obsessing -- and smarting -- over the episode. In its aftermath, Bruno complained to his fellow Republicans that the governor sounded like a broken record, calling him every day to rehash the budget, demanding to know why he'd been betrayed. The senators would respond by cataloging the ways the state agencies had frozen them out, and by wondering aloud whether Pataki was ever going to get over it.
It's too soon to say whether the new budget will be as ruinous for New York as Pataki predicts, or how long the acrimony will continue. It could produce an endless volley of torments, in which the governor withholds money for legislators' pet projects, and they, in turn, malign him publicly, and he, in turn, freezes out their relations in patronage posts, and they, in turn, join with the Assembly Democrats for the next three years to pass budgets. But in September 2004, George W. Bush and tens of thousands of his supporters will descend on New York City for the Republican National Convention. A man with national political ambitions would be wise not to let out-of-town guests see him squabbling with his house staff. 
Odds are, Pataki and Bruno will find some working alliance. They're trapped together on the same desert island, after all; they need each other more than they'd each care to admit. "This is . . . a time," Pataki says. "I'll make you a bet right now as to where we are six months from now. I think we'll be working closely together and moving forward together as well as possible." Pataki has been known to mend some severely damaged fences. The evening of his first election as governor, in 1994, he was so furious with Rudolph Giuliani for endorsing Cuomo that he dismissed the mayor's congratulatory phone call with a two-word expletive and refused to speak with him for weeks. Their feuding didn't subside until Giuliani called the governor at his home in Garrison and told him he was gravely ill with prostate cancer.
Pataki invited him up for the weekend. "When he asked me on the phone, it seemed perfectly natural," Giuliani says. "But I think there was a point where I got in the car -- I was probably about a third of the way up -- and I started thinking: This is very strange. People would probably be really surprised we're doing this. I wonder what we'll talk about. But I'd often have that thought when we worked together. My reaction had always been that he's a very nice person. A good guy. Someone you could talk to." 
"It's the home of leaders," says one child.
"It's the home of change," says another.
The most recent I Love New York commercial features a sweet montage of grade-school kids posed against New York tourist sites. One little blond girl gets a close-up - so close that we can read the words on her T-shirt. 
"It's the home of the amazing. . . ."
"The inspiring. . . . "
Soon George Pataki's voice is heard: "This year, take your children home. Take them to New York."
The camera bounces back to the girl, whose T-shirt provides a felicitous subliminal subtext: "Future President." Then it moves on.
If Pataki is auditioning for a job in Washington, it is not clear, at this moment, that Washington has noticed. Washington is busy. "Look," Karl Rove says, "I hate to tell you, but I can tell you more about Section 79 drought relief than I can about what's going on in the New York State Senate." 
And how much, you wonder, has Pataki noticed about the unglamorous realities of Washington? In the Bush administration, the only genuinely powerful cabinet posts belong to the secretaries of defense, state and homeland security. Pataki's underqualified for one and two, and as for the third -- for which he obviously has some relevant experience -- the position's taken, at least for now. "I don't get any sense he has an interest in being a part of the administration," Rove says. "If he'd wanted to, he could have signaled it at the beginning of the term."
Pataki offers: "Actually, I would love to be secretary of state. I'm letting out a trade secret, but it's never going to happen. I've just always been fascinated by foreign policy."
Is that a suggestion? 
"No," he says firmly. "If it were a suggestion, I'd have suggested it to the president. Which I never have."
Which leaves, essentially, a shoot-the-moon bid for president in 2008, or the hope that he's fortunate enough to be tapped for vice president. 
In 2000, Libby Pataki, the governor's wife, says, they talked in some detail about what it would mean for the family if he were offered the job. "He was on the list," she says. "He was on the list." If that's the case, the governor can hardly be faulted for letting it shape his aspirations. But he took a startling gamble this spring, even if it did coincide with the beliefs of "the real George Pataki." It's hard to imagine why he would do so, in a state as liberal as New York. Then again, if you're a lame duck, you might as well bet the farm.
But Stephen Moore, one of the most important activists in the party's ascendant right wing, doesn't waste much time considering the odds. "It's impossible for him to be president," he flatly declares. 
Scott Reed, a Republican strategist, agrees: "For most Republicans around the country, New York and its politics are like Pluto."
Howard Wolfson, former head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, says, "Let me put it this way: George Pataki is more liberal than many of the Democrats we had running for Congress in 2002." 
"I think a successful governor of a big state is bound to be taken seriously," says John McCain, the maverick Republican contender of 2000, as he struts through the Senate hallways early one May morning. McCain's campaign model is a point of intrigue for Pataki advisers. "Would it be possible for a Pataki campaign to skip campaigning in South Carolina and concentrate on California? Or a more moderate state whose principles would be more agreeable? So much of it is about expectations. Everyone thought it mattered that I skipped campaigning in Iowa, and it didn't." He pauses. "Having said that, I think he'd have rather dim prospects in the South."
For now, it seems, the best platform Pataki has to look forward to is Madison Square Garden in September 2004. And even there, Giuliani will doubtless upstage him. 
Still, he sometimes allows himself to daydream about what he might do with the opportunity. "I've always believed that the party should reflect the diversity of opinion not just within the country, but within the party, and that certainly includes a tolerant plank on choice," he says. "I'll make the case, make the arguments, as passionately and as vigorously as I can."
In the best of circumstances, budging the party's anti-abortion position even an inch would be an unfathomably huge feat. Only Pataki would dare to speak about it at the nadir of his power, when he's such a diminished version of himself. 
Even at the pinnacle of his power, after all, in the days of effortless wheeling and dealing, the governor couldn't always get his way. He kept his promise to Dan Klores and called Temple Emanu-El preschool on behalf of little Jake, whose application had been sent in late. But the governor's intervention couldn't save him. The child was rejected. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: George Pataki (Henry Leutwyler); The governor and his director of communications, Lisa Dewald Stoll, head for the opening of the Greenwich Village section of Hudson River Park. Out of the office is usually Pataki's favorite location. (Nina Berman/Aurora, for The New York Times); So far for Pataki, the third term hasn't been the charm. Top: Reviewing his veto of the budget. Center: Protests outside an appearance in Westchester. Bottom: With Michael Bloomberg, his sometime ally, at a rare session of Congress held in New York City in September 2002. (from top: James Estrin/The New York Times; Douglas Healey for The New York Times; Getty Images.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); TEACHER UNIONS (61%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TAXATION; PUBLIC OPINION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%) SENIOR, JENNIFER; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



384 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1666 words

HEADLINE: 'Law & Order' To the Actors' Rescue 

BYLINE:  By VANESSA GRIGORIADIS

 BODY:
TO the residents of Craig Walker's SoHo neighborhood, he is mostly known as a talented barista. From 8 until noon, he plies his trade at Porto Rico Coffee on Thompson Street, a dimly lighted anti-Starbucks with the Rolling Stones on the stereo, paperback copies of Jacques Derrida in the sagging bookcase and a cluttered bulletin board advertising giveaway futons and classes at a local "D. J. university." 
 But Mr. Walker, 35, who has a shaved head and stands 6-foot-3, is also sometimes recognized for achievements beyond the espresso machine. "I was watching a 'Law & Order' rerun last night with my girl," a customer in chunky glasses told him the other day, "and I was like: 'I know that guy! How do I know that guy?' " 
 Mr. Walker grinned. "You know, man, I get that all the time," he said, grinding a pound of dark roast. 
Mr. Walker is one of hundreds, perhaps thousands, of struggling New York actors who owe their fame, and a share of their financial solvency, to the ever-expanding "Law & Order" franchise on NBC, which now includes the original crime drama, 13 years old, and two spinoffs. With each of the three shows producing about 22 episodes a season, and a supporting cast of at least 20 needed to play each episode's lawyers, police officers and gruesomely slain paralegals, the "Law & Order" industry has become the most important staple in a traditionally lean New York acting diet. 
"We have students who've been on it, instructors on it, even the artistic director of our playwriting affiliate," said Kathryn Eaker, managing director of HB Studio, which has been an acting school in Greenwich Village for over 50 years. "It's become a benchmark in an acting career -- 'Yippee, I landed my first spot on "Law & Order"!' "
A quick scan of Playbills from the Broadway hits "Nine," "Gypsy" and "Oscar Wilde's 'Salome' " shows 15 biographies listing a credit for "Law & Order." 
Dick Wolf, who created the redoubtable franchise -- its producer, Universal Television, is asking NBC for more than $550 million a year to keep it going, and a fourth spinoff is in the works -- said, "It's actually gotten to the point where if I go to the theater and open the Playbill and the actor doesn't have one of the 'Law & Orders' in his or her credits, I figure they either just got off the bus or they are really bad."
The "Law & Order" shows are not the only game in town. "Sex and the City," "The Sopranos" and "Third Watch" are also produced locally. But for character-actor roles of all ages and ethnicities, the "Law & Order" troika is unrivaled: the original series alone has meant over 36,400 days of work for New York actors since 1990 and has injected $602 million into the city's economy, the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting said. The three series -- the others are "Law & Order: Special Victims Unit," which began in 1999, and "Law & Order: Criminal Intent," dating from 2001, have so far produced 449 shows. 
"Quite frankly, I've started to think about holding an acting seminar for New York actors called 'Let's Talk About the Victim,' " said Roger Bart, a former star of "The Producers" on Broadway and a two-time "Law & Order" guest actor. "We'd only do monologues that begin with, 'Well, I didn't think much of him at first,' 'He was just a quiet neighbor,' 'I'd only dated her for two months.' "
For bit players used to scraping by on temping and coffee-bar tips, a "Law & Order" check can be the difference between canned tuna and sashimi. Those hired for a single day earn a Screen Actors Guild minimum of $655. Weekly performers are paid $2,272 and a lead guest star, $5,240. Residual fees from reruns can also be lucrative since the repeats are among the most popular on television. 
But even when the checks, which generally shrink with each rerun of an episode, grow tiny, they can still represent a lifeline for the proverbially starving New York actor. George Demas, who played the husband of a victim of medical malpractice ("She died during a routine laparoscopy -- don't ask me what that is"), said he received $1.22 for one rerun of the episode on TNT. "I didn't even frame that check," Mr. Demas said. "I cashed it. Now that's sad."
Aside from payment in whatever amount, "Law & Order" appearances add prestige to an actor's resume because the shows are critically respected, and even small parts are written with more depth than most television and film roles. With plot lines spun from headlines -- P. Diddy's trial after a nightclub shooting, Michael Jackson's dangling of his infant son from a window -- each episode follows a foolproof formula of crime, investigation and trial, presented with the methodical chronology of a police report and usually leading to the satisfaction of a conviction.
"If you choose to make your life in New York as an actor because you love theater and want to do theater or independent film, it's one of the only ways you can make some kind of money as an actor and still have integrity," said Marianne Hagan, a pretty strawberry blonde in a flowing blue caftan, who was nursing a cafe-au-lait-size cup of coffee alfresco at Les Deux Gamins, a cafe on Houston Street. 
Ms. Hagan was first cast on "Law & Order" when she returned from Los Angeles in 1997, fresh from a starring role in "Halloween 6." "I came back to New York to try to do theater, but everyone in New York was doing 'Law & Order,' " Ms. Hagan said. She was cast almost immediately. "I was like, 'Yes!' " she said, raising her cup in a toast. "I've returned back to New York, like Caesar returning from Gaul."
The original "Law & Order" has a history of showcasing future stars, with Julianna Margulies (as a navy lieutenant), Claire Danes (child model) and Laura Linney (in a Japanese white slavery ring) all appearing during their salad days. 
The jury is still out on what a guest spot actually does for a supporting actor's career. "The credit hasn't superseded Broadway in terms of casting, but it's allowed all of us who work in the business to see actors we might not have seen otherwise," said Tara Rubin, a casting director for "Mama Mia!" and "The Producers." 
But the parts these actors are playing might not be the ones they want casting directors to see. "I don't feel like a lawyer, but they always cast me as a lawyer," said Bob LuPone, who has appeared in sixepisodes. "It hasn't done anything for my career to bring me out of the fray, as it were, as a career actor."
Nor has Mr. Walker been able to turn his appearances into a career that lifts him out of his SoHo coffee bar. So far, he has made $15,000 to $20,000 for three guest spots on the "Law & Order" shows, but has yet to find an agent. "They can't figure out my type," he said, referring to Manhattan agents and casting directors. "I get a lot of 'downtown hipster guy.' I mean, what does that mean?" 
So Mr. Walker auditions mostly for commercials, like one for a beer. "It was a party scene," he said. "They hired a hypnotist, and the hypnotist says to one of the guys, 'You are a dog.' " Then another guest appears with beer. Everyone runs over to him, and the scene shifts to the hypnotized guest lapping water out of the toilet bowl -- " 'cause he's still a dog," Mr. Walker explained grimly. "And they wanted me to play the dog."
On the other hand, John Dossett, who is starring in "Gypsy" on Broadway, recalled that last year he missed an audition for "Dinner at Eight" at Lincoln Center but was cast anyway from a "Law & Order" tape.
Casting directors on the "Law & Order" shows maintain they now have a difficult time finding new faces -- which might be the first time in the history of the New York acting world that demand has outstripped supply. Last season, Mr. Wolf ordered directors to wait 60 days between casting the same actor twice in prominent guest roles on any of the three shows. "We don't want someone to tune in Wednesday night for 'Law & Order' and then Sunday night for 'Criminal Intent' and see the same actor playing the villain in one show and the cop in the other," said Gayle Keller, the casting director of "Criminal Intent." 
But as surely as BackStage appears once a week, New York actors will show up for an audition. On a rainy Thursday in June, 30 of them lined the gray-carpeted hallway of the Chelsea Piers offices where the three series are cast. This call was for an episode in the third season of "Criminal Intent," the story of a woman who avenges the death of her husband, a hit man, by marrying and then murdering the killer. (Kinky!) 
A New Yorker cartoon is on the casting assistant's corkboard: "In the criminal justice system, the courtrooms are cleaned every night by members of the cleaning crew. These are their stories."
Gripping dog-eared pages of script, actors trying out for mobster roles wore heavy gold chains and tight white T-shirts. Those reading for lawyers wore suits and carried leather portfolios under an arm. They had all dressed the part on their own -- including Peter Mele, in a bright orange jumpsuit with "State Prison" stenciled on the back, hoping to be cast as convict. "I'm a Mafioso about to be paroled in a week, but there have been some complications because my son took it upon himself to do some dirty work on my behalf," Mr. Mele said, explaining the role. "But business is business in the mob world," he continued. "When you come down to it, family don't mean nothing."
Mr. Mele shot a sideways glance at the "lawyers." "I don't know who these suits are," he grumbled. 
Stevie Ray Dallimore, auditioning for the part of a prosecutor, strode out of the casting room confidently, holding the hand of his 3-year-old daughter, Rose, in green galoshes. (Mr. Dallimore had brought her to save on the cost of baby-sitting.) 
"It went well," he said, "though she" -- he indicated Rose -- "stopped me in one of my speeches. She just said, 'I'm finished with my fruit snacks.' I stopped and then went on. It wasO.K." 
Later, he learned he did not get the part. "They're saving me for something better," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MANY ARE CALLED -- Actors and would-be actors in the series, clockwise from top left, George Demas, Craig Walker, Leslie Cohen, Sal Mistretta, Stevie Ray Dallimore, Saundra Santiago and Robert LuPone.; SPINOFFS --Christopher Meloni and Mariska Hargitay, left, as detectives on "Law & Order: Special Victims Unit." Below, on "Law & Order: Criminal Intent," Vincent D'Onofrio and Kathryn Erbe, playing detectives, flank Courtney B. Vance as a district attorney. (Universal); THE PROSECUTION -- In a "Law & Order" episode, from left, Elisabeth Rohm, Carolyn McCormick and Sam Waterston. (Eric Liebowitz/Universal Television)(pg. 6) Drawing (Chris Gash)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER (87%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); PARALEGALS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); DRAMA LITERATURE (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MARISKA HARGITAY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



385 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Why Wheels Of Recovery Are Spinning In Iraq

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: BASRA, Iraq 

 BODY:
TWO months after American and British forces crushed the government of Saddam Hussein, the economic consequences of a "lean" peacekeeping strategy are mounting rapidly.
 Electricity, essential to restoring normalcy to business and personal life, remains crippled because looters are stealing copper cable as quickly as it is being installed. 
 Oil production, Iraq's main source of income, is still far below its prewar level because of pilfering and perhaps even sabotage at oil fields and refineries. 
Big Iraqi factories are still idle, partly because they are antiquated, but also because they were gutted by theft and then immobilized by the lack of electricity. 
And foreign investors, whether large multinational corporations or the large population of wealthy Iraqi expatriates, say Iraq is still too unstable for them to make major financial commitments.
It would be wrong to attribute all these problems to American military strategy. Military officials say they never expected the Iraqi police and government to simply vanish overnight, as they did after the war.
American officials have responded to the problem by putting 25,000 military police officers in Baghdad, an additional 4,000 troops in pro-Hussein strongholds like the city of Falluja, and thousands of new Iraqi police officers back on the streets everywhere.
Yet the fact remains that Donald H. Rumsfeld, the defense secretary, pushed hard to wage war with fewer soldiers and a more nimble use of technology than in the first Persian Gulf war. The strategy proved successful, but American forces are now finding themselves stretched thin and scrambling to catch up.
In Washington and Baghdad, American officials treated the first wave of postwar looting as little more than a minor nuisance. It was not until mid-May, when the looting had long since evolved into pervasive street crime against individuals, that American officials began to put thousands of extra soldiers into policing and street patrols.
There are signs that street crime has declined and that Iraqis feel more secure. Shops here and in Baghdad are open later in the day than they were a few weeks ago. New restaurants appear almost daily. Iraqi children play soccer under street lights at night, and more Iraqi women venture into the markets.
But new problems are cropping up. Here in Basra, the big southern port city, residents say power failures are longer and more frequent now than they were when the war ended. The reason is that looters have stepped up their theft of high-tension cables, which they melt into copper bars and sell across the border in Iran.
Just last week, the British military police here arrested eight men who were driving a large truck loaded with several tons of stolen cable. Iraqi police officers say that that was merely one of countless thefts, and that copper-melting shops continue to operate brazenly.
AMERICAN forces near Baghdad, meanwhile, are locked into an increasingly serious battle against guerrilla snipers and bombers who stage regular hit-and-run attacks. That battle reached a new level of postwar intensity last week, when American military forces attacked a suspected training base for loyalists of Mr. Hussein. Before the firefight was over, an Apache helicopter had been shot down and an F-16 fighter jet had crashed because of an apparent mechanical failure.
Militarily, the hit-and-run attacks pose a negligible threat to American and British forces. But they greatly increase the insecurity of investors about Iraq, and the retaliatory raids and house-to-house searches by troops are likely to increase resentment among ordinary Iraqis.
Iraqi frustration is already running high. Though job statistics for Iraq do not exist, economists and business executives here say that at least one-third of the population is either unemployed or underemployed. Some believe that more than half the work force may fall into that category.
At least in the short term, the dislocation is likely to increase. Iraqi factories, private and government-owned, became antiquated and insular as a result of United Nations sanctions against Iraq. 
Now, with American and British administrators throwing open Iraqi borders to free trade, Iraq's rickety factories are being swamped by new foreign competitors who are more modern and more efficient and savvier in their marketing.
Such dislocations would be almost inevitable, regardless of whether American leaders had moved faster to provide postwar security. But each additional delay strengthens foreign brands like Samsung or Siemens and erases names like the State Company for Vegetable Oils. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); DESERT STORM (76%); CRIME RATES (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CRIMES AGAINST PERSONS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); CITIES (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (55%); SOCCER (50%) LUGGAGE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: SWANY CORP 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%) ROBERTSON, CAMPBELL; MIYOSHI, ETSUO#000T031220SRAQA01# 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



386 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: COPING; 
Where Martha Reigns, a Walk in the Aisle

BYLINE:  By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; E-mail: amh@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN honor of Martha Stewart's indictment earlier this month, this seemed like a good time to buy Martha Stewart Living at the Christopher Street subway station. Maybe Martha would shed some light on this humiliating turn of events in her very personal magazine, where she reveals even friends' birthdays. 
 The magazine was selling out. Evidently, the curiosity of others had been piqued. Being indicted could be good for business. 
 Inside the July issue, Martha introduces her editor in chief, Margaret Roach, paving the way for succession, perhaps? Ms. Roach's first letter to readers is about the pleasures of making packaged mac and cheese for friends, especially if the dish is spiffed up with good silver on the side. A win for the working woman; in the past, Martha would have proselytized mac and cheese from scratch.
 But it was the title of the editor's letter, "Do Unto Others," that caught the eye. Could this be a subliminal plea for Martha's fans to sympathize with her plight and keep buying her products?
 Do they? Are they?
 It's a short walk from Christopher Street to Kmart on Astor Place in the East Village, one of seven city shrines to Martha's apotheosis as domestic goddess. The store is, at first glance, kind of a shock, more Duane Reade in presentation than Westport, Conn. Inside, Joe Boxer and Maybelline dominate. Martha has been exiled, for the most part, to the second floor. But her fans still manage to find her wares by looking for her trademark blue and green color scheme.
 In the patio section, Audrey Cole, a 53-year-old unemployed housekeeper from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, was scrutinizing iced-tea glasses, debating whether to buy the 89-cent Kmart glasses decorated with a watermelon pattern or the $1.49 Martha Stewart Everyday ones in blue and green stripes.
 "Martha knows how to make money -- you got to give it to the girl," Ms. Cole said admiringly, in her Guyanese lilt.
 You might not think that Martha would have much of a following in the city, with its cramped apartments, scarce outdoor space and rushed pace, and you would be wrong.
 Ms. Cole is a Martha expert. Pushing her cart toward a white-glazed pitcher embossed with acorns, she explained that the acorn, like blue and green, is a Martha motif. What's appealing about the pitcher, Ms. Cole said, is that "it looks like something your mother had."
 At this point, Ms. Cole divulged a shopping secret: You can get Martha knockoffs at the 99-cent store. Still, she covets the genuine item, as pilgrims to Lourdes seek miraculous water. "I'm getting it as collector's items," she said.
 In the lighting section, Suzanne Bagert, a 35-year-old securities and banking lawyer, casual in flip-flops and jeans, had picked out a Martha Stewart lamp with a beaded shade. Ms. Bagert quit her job at Credit Suisse First Boston six weeks ago. Quitting her job and buying the lamp were, in an aspirational, Martha-like way, connected.
 Investment banking "is an overwhelmingly male environment," Ms. Bagert said, adding: "Women tend to have more subservient roles. All the men do everything in a very predictable way. They get married. Their wives don't work. They have 2.3 kids and move to Darien.
 "My life just wasn't like that," she said. "Maybe that ties into why I like Martha. It's kind of like creating a home for yourself, as opposed to eating takeout night after night and coming home to an empty apartment."
 Yet Ms. Bagert also sees Martha as "a little bit cold, a little bit fake," a view that the government, with its obstruction of justice charges, seems to have latched onto. She pitched herself as a holier-than-thou, stay-at-home mom, yet no working person had time to do what Martha preached. She created a false persona, then sold herself as if she were fast food in Tiffany-blue wrapping.
 "She puts on an air, you could see that's not really Martha," Ms. Cole agreed. She has made Martha's mother's pound cake for her 11-year-old son. "Yeah, it was good," she said. "You have to give the girl her due."
 But she passed up the Martha glasses. She is waiting for the fire sale. "Wait until the verdict comes, when Kmart is trying to put Martha, the memory of her, behind their back," she said.
 She does not feel sorry for the fallen diva. "Jail might humble her," she says, chuckling. "But it won't hurt her. Whether we buy her stuff or not, Martha's going to be rich when she comes out."
 By then, Ms. Cole might not be rich. But she hopes to have a job as a housekeeper, and a very valuable stash of Martha souvenirs.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 22, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The Coping column last Sunday, about the reaction of shoppers at Kmart to the indictment of Martha Stewart, referred incorrectly to the placement of her products at the Astor Place store. They have not been "exiled" to the second floor; they have been there since they were introduced.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lisa Haney) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (78%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



387 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: The Poor as a Handy Distraction 

 BODY:
The gravest questions of fiscal responsibility for the nation are being ignored in the freakish sideshow now under way in Congress over yet another tax cut in these fiscally difficult times. President Bush and the Republican leaders should be candidly debating the $2 trillion-plus mountain of deficits and debt they are rolling onto the backs of future generations through the administration's serial tax cuts. Instead, they are obsessed with the 2004 election cycle, wrangling over how best to throw a last-minute bone to low-income Americans shortchanged in last month's tax giveaway to the most affluent Americans. 
 Republicans voice concern that they seem compassionate, yet not extend "welfare" to the working poor. Lost in that debate is the fact that various indefensible tax shelters were protected as corporate welfare in the lobbying frenzy for the new tax cuts. Unmentioned, too, is the fact that the nation's richest 1 percent will garner better than 25 percent of the revenue cut. Those earning more than $500,000 will average $17,000, while those down in the $40,000 bracket average $320. 
 Without doubt, the 6.5 million minimum-wage families shamelessly neglected the first time around deserve the extra $400 in child care credits most other Americans are awaiting. The Senate's $3.5 billion short-term solution is preferable to the House Republicans' $82 billion move to up the tax-cut ante, but only relatively so. Washington's tax debates are but a piece of the bigger picture of an uninhibited binge of revenue cuts and deficit budgeting. Senate Republicans style themselves as more responsible than the House in demanding last month's total cut be no more than $350 billion. But the actual cost in deficit will be more than twice that once the "sunset" accounting gimmicks are removed, as promised.
The Bush cuts offer too little short-term stimulus while choking the long-term revenue flow for the looming time when Social Security and Medicare costs will balloon. Mr. Bush's growing need to float the federal government on borrowed money will crimp economic growth. This is the stuff of real debate. Instead we have the G.O.P. worrying a modest share for the poor. The outcome promises to position the president as a compassionate "moderate" in a cynical bit of right-wing theater produced by the House majority leader, Tom DeLay, the president's indispensable ally in budget politicking. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (77%); FAMILY (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); MEDICARE (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (51%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; TAX CREDITS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



388 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Hot Zombie Love 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD; E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The leafy Connecticut towns of New Canaan and Norwalk are getting ready for the invasion of the body-snatched. The Stepford wives, those frilly minded, man-pleasing zombies who glided through suburban colonials and supermarkets three decades ago, are back -- clutching casseroles with blue potholders and garden tools with white gloves.
 Usually, I avoid remakes. But I'm intrigued to see what the director Frank Oz and the screenwriter Paul Rudnick do with their new version of the 1975 cult thriller and ingenious spoof on male fear of female assertion, "The Stepford Wives," a William Goldman screenplay from an Ira Levin novel. 
 Nicole Kidman will take Katharine Ross's role of a woman who moves to an immaculate Connecticut suburb with her husband (Matthew Broderick). She and her new pal (Bette Midler) discover that the place is more wicked than wicker, and that the women walking around in ruffles are preternaturally unruffled (Faith Hill et al.).
In the original, the men in town take revenge on the Betty Friedan ethos and notions about unshaved legs, burned bras and competing his-and-her careers by killing off their newly liberated wives and replacing them with shaplier and more submissive robot doppelganger in aprons who knit and coo. (The fembots with Farrah hair and blue eyeshadow sometimes go haywire and breathily repeat things like, "I'll just die if I don't get that recipe.")
Christopher Walken is now the villainous town founder, so Nicole will need her wits about her to escape.
Mr. Rudnick says the plot has only increased in resonance because men have grown even more anxious about gender issues and begrudge having their hegemony shredded by women, gays and minorities. "Straight white males act like the angry new endangered minority," he says. "Men only evolve with a gun at their head."
Ms. Ross played an amateur photographer whose husband felt she neglected the home. Mr. Rudnick has ratcheted up Ms. Kidman's accomplishments, making her a network president, and her husband an underling and junior vice president.
"There's still social pressure -- everyone looking at a guy with a wife who makes more money, going, 'He's the chick,' " the writer says.
He notes that the "embedded biology" of romantic fantasies has not changed: "Men want a babe and don't care about her earning power. Women want a rugged poet or musician with a private jet."
It will still make a great thriller. But the real chiller is that the evil husbands in the original did not need to murder. They just needed to wait. In the long interval between the two movies, women have turned themselves into Stepford wives. 
They can no longer wince at their mates because they have frozen their faces with Botox. They're sedated with Prozac, Zoloft, Xanax and Paxil. (As one mother told New York magazine about rampant pill-popping: "People say 'I'm anxious' and I think, how quaint.")
Women puff their lips, balloon their breasts and suck fat from their hindquarters. The spring fashions were so hourglass sexy, frothy and pastel, they were dubbed "Stepford style" in the Times fashion section.
Martha Stewart (a haywire robot with a team of lawyers) led women -- and culture -- back to the wifely arts of cooking, gardening, decorating and flower arranging. Hillary Clinton, once so angry about tea and cookies, is now so eerily glazed and good-natured that she could be the senator from Stepford.
If 70's feminism produced the squat and blunt Betty Friedan, this decade has produced the sensual and zaftig Nigella Lawson, who wryly calls herself a "domestic goddess" and is a purveyor of what fans call "gastro porn." More of a male fantasy than Stepford husbands could ever conjure up, the British cooking show hostess is always in the kitchen purring hot home economics advice such as mangoes are "best eaten in their natural state, and preferably in the bath."
There's even a retro trend among women toward deserting the fast track for a pleasant life of sitting around Starbucks gabbing with their girlfriends, baby strollers beside them, logging time at the gym to firm up for the he-man C.E.O. at home.
As Mr. Rudnick slyly points out: "Men and women are working in tandem to create the Stepford wife of tomorrow. Once the technology advances, there'll be a Botox babe who runs on solar power." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); MEN (78%); WOMEN (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY (61%); VISUAL ARTISTS (61%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (58%) MOTION PICTURES; WOMEN; FEMINIST MOVEMENT 

PERSON: NICOLE KIDMAN (78%) DOWD, MAUREEN; RUDNICK, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: STEPFORD WIVES, THE (MOVIE)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



389 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: The World: When Laws Don't Apply; 
Cracking Down on the Terror-Arms Trade

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: KENNEBUNKPORT, Me. 

 BODY:
FIRST came pre-emption, President Bush's declaration that the age of containment was over and that the United States would no longer wait before wiping out potential threats. Now, after he turned doctrine into practice in Iraq, comes the next phase of the strategy: a bid to pre-empt conflict itself by hobbling the traffic in the most horrific armaments.
 Call it pre-emptive pre-emption. The aim is to keep countries like North Korea, Iran, Libya and Syria from trading in arms that could be slipped to terrorists or used to challenge American power. 
 Under this new approach, now being refined by Pentagon and State Department officials, the White House is pressing for a coalition of nations that would allow ships to be boarded and aircraft to be forced down the moment they slipped into any cooperative country's waters or airspace. Thus the United States and its allies would combine intelligence with creative use of national laws to seize suspicious shipments around the world and disrupt the transportation system for everything from missiles to the centrifuges used to enrich uranium.
As Mr. Bush headed to his parents' house here on Thursday, American officials and many of their allies were meeting in Spain to devise the new rules. Britain, France, Germany, Australia, Poland and Japan were represented, but not Russia, China and South Korea. The next day, in a sign of why the United States believes it needs to move fast, the Thai police seized 60 pounds of radioactive cesium in Bangkok that authorities believe may have been intended for use in "dirty bombs."
The administration's initiative was born partly out of frustration with the way international law had deep-sixed an effort to stop the shipment of North Korean missiles to Yemen last year. Rather than try to rewrite international laws that govern freedom of the seas -- bedrock principles for the global economy and American economic power -- the White House decided to base its efforts on the inventive use of national laws.
Some experts said the strategy of stepping up pressure on North Korea and other countries without creating international legal problems is creative, if complicated. "It requires a lot of cooperation -- the Chinese, for example -- and an agreement on what constitutes contraband," said Michael E. O'Hanlon, a scholar at the Brookings Institution who has studied the implications of the Bush approach.
The failed effort to stop the missiles bound for Yemen reflects the hurdles involved. American intelligence tracked the ship, which flew Cambodia'sflag, and Spanish troops boarded it. But having discovered the cargo, they let it go after Yemen declared the missile shipments legal under international law. Not wanting to anger a sometime ally against terrorism, President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney relented. 
"It was not the brightest moment in the American fight against proliferation," a senior aide said.
The new coalition is intended to tie up such shipments on whatever pretext is available, long before they make it to their destination, and preferably before they make it to the high seas at all.
Imagine, American officials said, that spy satellites detect a North Korean missile shipment headed to Iran. The missiles could not be seized in international waters. But if they entered the waters of a coalition member, they could be grabbed under a variety of national laws.
"We're going to use every rule available," a top White House national security official said in an interview. "There will be gaps, places where we can't act. But no one has ever before tried to marry the ability we have to track these shipments with the existing national authorities that are out there."
Missiles and nuclear material aren't the only targets. In the case of North Korea, the administration is trying to shut off its main sources of hard currency, which pay for its armaments. 
The North Koreans had a taste of this approach last week in Japan. More than 1,000 Japanese police officers, customs officials and shipping regulators suddenly showed up at the dock where a ferry between North Korea and Japan regularly runs. For years, the ferry has been considered a link in providing North Korea with hard currency, mostly from pachinko parlors run by Koreans who live in Japan.
The cash transfers themselves are probably legal. But in recent months Japan has finally worked up the gumption to act against the North, and so the ship was subject to intensive safety inspections and the most rigorous customs examination in memory. North Korea immediately ended the ferry service. The Japanese authorities moved on to other North Korean rust buckets that show up in their ports, few of which could pass anyone's safety inspections.
Australia's foreign minister, Alexander Downer, said last week that his country was working on a plan with the American and Japanese navies to intercept North Korean smugglers, some of whom were grabbed recently as they tried to deliver a shipload of drugs off the Australian coast.
Drugs are an easy case, because they are considered contraband around the world. The trick for the Bush administration is to persuade other nations -- including Russia and China, which helped North Korea and Iran with their nuclear programs -- that they must join in the crackdown.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Last year, Spain stopped a ship bound for Yemen from North Korea carrying missiles. Inset, a missile fuel container. (Spanish Navy via Associated Press); (Agence-France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); DIRTY BOMBS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FREEDOM OF THE SEAS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (67%); CENTRIFUGES (66%); GLOBALIZATION (63%) TERRORISM; ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (58%) SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); YEMEN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SPAIN (92%); IRAQ (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); THAILAND (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SYRIA (79%); FRANCE (69%) YEMEN; NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



390 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: SECURITY; 
Iraqi Leader Asks U.S. To Stop Military Sweeps

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 14 

 BODY:
Adnan Pachachi, a respected elder Iraqi statesman encouraged by Bush administration officials to enter postwar politics here, criticized the United States military today for its increasingly aggressive operations in Iraq and said they should be suspended while an interim Iraqi government is formed over the next month.
 Mr. Pachachi said that military sweeps through civilian areas with mass arrests, interrogations and gun battles, intended to suppress the remnants of Saddam Hussein's Baath Party and military command, were inflaming sentiments against the American and British occupation. 
 He predicted that if such sweeps continued, they would be "exploited by the Baathists," and he added, "It would be much better if we didn't have these operations."
Mr. Pachachi, a former foreign minister who returned to Iraq last month after more than 30 years of exile, emphasized that he supported allied efforts to re-establish security in the country. But he expressed concern about the marked escalation of allied assaults through civilian areas, where guerrilla raids have attacked troop convoys or checkpoints and left 10 American soldiers dead in the last three weeks. 
"These incidents will not help to pacify the country," he said, referring to the military operations. "For now, the quieter it is, the better" for the postwar political process, he added.
Speaking in an interview, Mr. Pachachi, who served as Iraq's ambassador to the United Nations during the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, called on the top American administrator, L. Paul Bremer III, to allow Iraqis to form an interim government with only "consultations" with Mr. Bremer and the United Nations representative here.
He said such a step would help meet the rising demands from Iraqis that they control their own political destiny during reconstruction.
The pointed remarks from the man the State Department had nudged back into Iraqi politics at the age of 80 are likely to add to the pressure on Mr. Bremer to respond to Iraqi opposition groups and religious figures who want a speedy transition to substantive Iraqi control over the political process. They see such a transition as an essential step in preventing a backlash against the occupation authority.
Mr. Pachachi spoke at the end of a week of major military operations in Iraq in which allied forces have laid siege to a peninsula along the Tigris River 40 miles north of Baghdad, where more than 380 arrests were made during house-to-house searches in civilian neighborhoods and at military roadblocks.
Northwest of Baghdad, allied strike aircraft and helicopters assaulted what the military command called a terrorist training camp, killing 70 people. 
In a separate operation on Thursday near the northern city of Kirkuk, the 173rd Airborne Brigade detained 74 "suspected sympathizers" of Al Qaeda, the terrorist organization of Osama bin Laden. There were no further details about the operation, or explanation for the basis of the suspicions about those arrested.
Today, Iraqi detainees at the Abu Gharib prison complex west of Baghdad attacked their American guards by throwing rocks and charging them with pieces of sharpened metal during an apparent escape attempt. One American guard was wounded and other guards opened fire during the melee, in which one detainee was killed and seven were wounded, two critically.
It was the third incident in a week involving Iraqi prisoners, and the second attempted escape as allied forces were rounding up more suspected Baathists believed to be planning or inciting guerrilla attacks on allied checkpoints and convoys in central Iraq. On Thursday, two prisoners were shot trying to escape from an allied camp, and one died.
Mr. Pachachi has been regarded by American officials as a unifying figure on Iraq's rapidly developing political landscape. He has deftly kept his distance from a group of former Iraqi opposition leaders who have formed a "leadership council" to negotiate a postwar political structure with Mr. Bremer. But Mr. Pachachi also has stated common cause with them.
The council includes the two main Kurdish factions of Massoud Barzani and Jalal Talabani, the Iraqi National Congress of Ahmad Chalabi, the Iraqi National Accord of Iyad Alawi, the democratic movement of Nasir Chadirchy, the Shiite Dawa Party represented by Ibrahim Jafari, and the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution of Iraq under the Ayatollah Muhammad Bakr al-Hakim.
Mr. Bremer has ultimate authority in Iraq under a United Nations resolution that recognizes the United States and Britain as occupation powers. He has said that he intends to appoint a 25-to-30 member "political council" of Iraqis. Some Iraqi political figures have criticized this model for forming a transitional administration, and a prominent Shiite Muslim political organization said it would not be able to take part in any administration appointed directly by Mr. Bremer.
Mr. Bremer has said that any Iraqi political group is free to to boycott the selection process for his political council if it chooses to do so. But he has been working assiduously and diplomatically behind the scenes to ensure the broadest participation possible in the postwar political process.
Mr. Pachachi said he was working to bridge the differences between the American administrator and Iraq's emerging political forces.
"Why would Bremer want to dictate to the Iraqis who he wants?" Mr. Pachachi said. "I don't think he knows Iraq better than the Iraqis."
Mr. Pachachi said he was going to press this view in a meeting with Ryan Crocker, the State Department official assigned to Mr. Bremer's administration and a likely choice to serve as the first United States ambassador to Iraq when a government is formed.
"The people of Iraq want a government," Mr. Pachachi said, "and we could easily say this political council is a true government of Iraq" if Mr. Bremer essentially turned over the authority to choose such a body to a large group of Iraqi political figures.
Instead of a decree from Mr. Bremer, a decision to invite the selected Iraqis to serve on the political council of the interim government could be announced, Mr. Pachachi said, "as the result of extensive consultations" without Mr. Bremer's asserting his prerogative.
The former diplomat suggested that Mr. Bremer could maintain the fig leaf of control over the final decision-making by participating in the "consultations" with the Iraqis assembled from all parts of the political, religious and economic spectrum.
Their task, once seated as an interim government, would be to make policy on economic recovery, a new currency, a new judiciary, a census and electoral law to guide the first democratic elections in about a year's time.
The interim administration would have the authority to appoint ministers and carry out Iraq's foreign relations during the occupation period "by appointing and receiving ambassadors," he said.
"I think for us, speed is of the essence," he said. "We want to have a government as soon as possible."
The negotiations with Mr. Bremer are set to continue this week.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Official Is Captured
 BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 14 (Reuters) -- Saddam Hussein's air force commander has been taken into custody by American forces, the United States Central Command said today in a statement.
It said that the commander, Hamid Raja Shalah al-Tikriti, was number 17 on the American list of the 55 most-wanted Iraqis. So far, 31 of those on the list are known to be in custody.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Adnan Pachachi, former Iraqi foreign minister, urged the creation of an interim government. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); AL-QAEDA (62%); HELICOPTERS (60%); RELIGION (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) TYLER, PATRICK E; PACHACHI, ADNAN; HUSSEIN, SADDAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



391 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Iran Blames Paramilitaries for Attacks on Student Protesters 

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: TEHRAN, June 14 

 BODY:
Chanting students and heavily armed vigilantes remained in a tense standoff around the main student dormitories of Tehran University tonight after the government unexpectedly put the blame for five nights of escalating clashes on shadowy paramilitary forces that have long been the favored means of squelching dissent here.
 Reports emerging today indicated for the first time that the protests had spread beyond Tehran, with one protester reportedly killed in the southern city of Shiraz, and a dormitory at the Industrial University of Isfahan heavily damaged by fire. 
 "This is a student movement, not an American movement," some 500 students chanted outside the Tehran University dormitories, according to the Iranian Student News Agency. They were evidently answering accusations made by senior clerics that the demonstrators were stooges aiding an American plot to destabilize the Islamic Republic. 
The ISNA report said that at least 50 vigilantes on motorbikes were circling the area yelling "Hezbollah! Hezbollah!" and darting through the heavy traffic to detain anyone who looked suspicious to them. 
There has been no official announcement about the exact number of wounded or arrested in the clashes, but students and other witnesses said about 70 people were wounded in Tehran over the last four nights, some of them critically. 
Students were wary about the presence of the vigilantes even after the nightly news on the main government-run television station announced that arrest warrants had been issued for 100 men believed responsible for fomenting bloodshed. They were described as followers of Said Asgar, also sought, who was freed after a brief jail sentence for the attempted murder of one of the country's leading reformers in 2000.
The sudden placing of blame on the much feared vigilantes -- known as baseejis or Ansar Hezbollah and believed controlled by Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the country's supreme leader -- came as a surprise. Student Web sites carried a statement from Ansar Hezbollah saying it was not responsible for the current attacks.
If carried out, the arrest of any such men would be a remarkable event. Although their command structure is obscure, the vigilantes have often been used as shock troops to instill fear in anyone threatening the government through civil disobedience. Students who detained half a dozen of the vigilantes attacking them on Friday night said they were carrying identification cards from the intelligence service of the Republican Guards. 
On Thursday, Ayatollah Khamenei accused the United States of fomenting the protests and, although calling on the vigilantes not to intervene, chillingly warned that if the protests continued, they might end as similar disturbances did in 1999.
The vigilantes attacked the same Tehran University dorms that year, tossing students out third-story windows and vandalizing the buildings. One student was killed with a gunshot, several were brutally injured, and a few remain in prison. The current protests could well continue at one level or another until the July anniversary of those attacks.
Students said they remained fearful of a repeat of the ferocious assaults, which the regular security forces, although surrounding them, appeared powerless to prevent.
"We are all very scared," said a 21-year-old student reached by telephone who would identify himself only as Amir. "The regular security forces had entered the dormitories to protect us, but they only had a few batons, and they said they were not going to hang around tonight."
The vigilantes, on the other hand, swarmed onto campus in the early hours today by the hundreds, armed with truncheons, heavy sticks, chains and even a few sidearms, he said.
Details of attacks on the dorms at three universities in Tehran and others in Isfahan and Shiraz emerged slowly today. Pictures on student Web sites showed blood-smeared walls and doorways that had been smashed at Tehran University.
There were few details about the death in Shiraz, reported by the Web site of Amir Kabeer University, other than that the victim was a male shot in the chest who died later in a hospital. There were pictures of students with gruesome wounds that appeared to have been caused by razors or other sharp objects.
Given recent statements by the Bush administration calling for change in Iran, the protests have increased the concerns of an already jittery government. The fact that Farsi-language satellite broadcasts from the United States, run mostly by monarchist opposition groups, have been urging people onto the streets only added to their concerns.
But students and other protesters have shown themselves fed up with all sides. "We want no shah, we want no supreme leader," went one chant.
Experts said that the level of violence unleashed by the vigilantes would probably dampen the protests, but that growing anger about the slow pace of change in a country with 48 million people under the age of 30 -- 70 percent of the population -- would only fester.
"They really scared people last night," said Mohsen Sazegara, an opposition journalist. "But it will gradually push people to become more radical. People are unhappy and very angry, so whenever there is an opportunity, they want to express this anger."
The anger has not been reserved only for the conservative religious establishment around Ayatollah Khamenei, blamed for slowing the pace of greater democracy as well as of social and economic freedom.
Reformists have been calling for a referendum on constitutional change that would shift power away from the supreme leader, but have gotten nowhere. There was no orchestrated demand for that in the current protests, which mushroomed out of a small march last Tuesday against the privatization of universities.
Students, who voted heavily for the reformist president, Mohammed Khatami, have also expressed anger at his inability to deliver greater change. They have been especially angered by his silence in the face of the protests this week and for the first time chanted against him. 
The Ministry of Information barred local and foreign reporters from covering the protests tonight, saying it could not assure their safety after a number had been beaten. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); ARRESTS (88%); RIOTS (77%); VANDALISM (76%); MURDER (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); ARREST WARRANTS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (71%); FIRES (70%); PRISONS (69%); RELIGION (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); SENTENCING (64%); POLITICS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%) TEHRAN UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (53%) MACFARQUHAR, NEIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHIRAZ, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (92%) IRAN; TEHRAN (IRAN); SHIRAZ (IRAN); ISFAHAN (IRAN)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



392 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2650 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: IN THE FIELD THIRD INFANTRY DIVISION; 
Anxious and Weary of War, G.I.'s Face a New Iraq Mission

BYLINE:  By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 14 

 BODY:
Sgt. Jaime A. Betancourt was there in March when a taxi loaded with explosives killed four of his company's soldiers at a checkpoint. He was there in April when his battalion seized the road out of the international airport and Saddam Hussein's army made its last desperate defense.
 He was there later that month when his company, part of the First Brigade of the Army's Third Infantry Division, crossed the Tigris River and began to restore order in Baghdad's eastern half as chaos threatened to unravel the victory the brigade had helped win. 
 He is still here today, enduring infernal heat and fetid quarters in the ransacked headquarters of Iraq's Interior Ministry, as much of the Third Infantry Division remains in the city it helped conquer, interacting with people it once saw as the enemy. 
"I think that was the most scary thing -- trusting civilians, especially after the car bomb," Sergeant Betancourt, 21, said, referring to the taxi bombing, the worst single attack against the brigade's troops, on March 29, near Najaf, about 85 miles south of Baghdad. "We didn't want nothing to do with these people anymore."
As he stood guard at a hospital, as he enforced curfew at checkpoints, as he patrolled streets once again bustling with Iraqis, even the children terrified Sergeant Betancourt, who appears barely older than a child himself.
"At the end," he said, "it was like, 'Get that kid away from me.' "
It was not supposed to end this way for the brigade's 5,000 soldiers, who were accompanied by a reporter during the war and again this month in Baghdad. After fighting their way from the Kuwaiti border to Saddam International Airport in three fierce weeks, they believed that the war -- or at least their part of it -- was over.
Six months after arriving in Kuwait and almost three months after entering Iraq, they were ready to go home. Then they discovered that, at least from a soldier's-eye view on the ground, there seemed to be no American plan for a postwar Iraq.
The mayhem that followed the collapse of Mr. Hussein's government on April 9 has thrust them into a new mission: keeping peace, even as their weary minds and bodies are still at war.
"You call Donald Rumsfeld and tell him our sorry asses are ready to go home," Pfc. Matthew C. O'Dell, an infantryman in Sergeant Betancourt's platoon, said as he stood guard on Tuesday. "Tell him to come spend a night in our building."
Two months after surging into Baghdad, the First Brigade's soldiers have found themselves enmeshed in yet another war -- less intense, perhaps, but still exhausting, still perilous and, at times, still psychologically taxing. Some are haunted by the deaths they caused -- and suffered -- and have sought counseling. All are tired and hot and increasingly bitter. Morale has plummeted as sharply as the temperature has risen.
Last Saturday night, Sergeant Betancourt's company sent a Humvee and an armored personnel carrier on a mission to fix the satellite phone their company had bought in Baghdad. As they were returning, someone threw a grenade from an overpass. It exploded only a few feet away, rattling but not seriously wounding two soldiers.
"If it had been a split second earlier, it'd have been bad," Staff Sgt. Ray B. Robinson, a squad leader in Sergeant Betancourt's company, said. "They're killing us."
He added later, "Enough is enough."

Curfew
Enforcing the Peace At the End of the War
When the First Brigade's troops arrived in late April, replacing the marines who had seized the area as Mr. Hussein's control evaporated, they encountered fires, looting and rampant violence. The brigade's sectors covered a wide swath where more than a million Iraqis -- Sunnis, Shiites and Christians -- live in a volatile mix.
The brigade, commanded by Col. William F. Grimsley, imposed a curfew, from 11 p.m. to 4 a.m., and began arresting those who violated it, as many as 1,000 people a night. Colonel Grimsley said troops had killed more than 100 Iraqis who appeared to pose a threat to American forces.
On May 8, a crowd gathered in the street around Pfc. Marlin T. Rockhold, 23, of Hamilton, Ohio, as he was directing traffic at a bridge in northern Baghdad. A man with a gun approached him from behind and shot him dead. Another soldier from the unit -- the brigade's Third Battalion, Seventh Infantry Regiment -- was wounded in a similar attack, leading officers to believe that both attacks were the work of one man. Whoever it was escaped.
On May 26, Pfc. Jeremiah D. Smith died when a remote-controlled mine detonated under his Humvee as he was escorting new troops and equipment to and from the airport. Private Smith, 25, was a member of the 34th Armored Regiment at Fort Riley, Kan., but was assigned to the brigade's Second Battalion, Seventh Infantry Regiment. He died two days before he was scheduled to go home. Three other soldiers were wounded.
Now, this part of Baghdad, like much of the rest of Iraq, has returned to normal, at least as normal is defined here: dust and poverty, trash-filled gutters and pools of sewage in streets and courtyards. The number of nightly arrests has fallen sharply. One night last week, soldiers confiscated only three rifles and three pistols, compared with hundreds taken nightly in the beginning.
"It's not the Wild West anymore," said Lt. Col. Todd R. Wood, the new commander of the Second Battalion. 
After six weeks of patrols in his area, Colonel Grimsley said the level of violent crime was lower than in Atlanta, the nearest big city to the brigade's base in Georgia. Shops and cafes have reopened. Vendors have appeared again on sidewalks, selling cigarettes and sodas. Traffic, even traffic jams, have returned.
"When this bicycle shop opened about a week after we got here, I knew we were going to be O.K.," Colonel Grimsley said as he rode in an armored Humvee through Adhamiya, the neighborhood where Mr. Hussein is reported to have made his last known public appearance, on April 9, just as Baghdad was about to fall.
But the situation is still unstable. On June 1, a firefight erupted at the Abu Hanifa Mosque only a few hundred yards from the bicycle shop. A grenade was thrown from a car toward soldiers guarding a checkpoint. Snipers opened fire from at least one building nearby. Two soldiers from the First Armored Division were wounded. An Iraqi civilian died.

Charity
Restoring a City A Step at a Time
With the war over, the brigade's soldiers turned to what Colonel Grimsley called "little good works," projects intended to rebuild Baghdad and to build trust in an occupying force.
Through the last days of April and into May, the brigade cleared the streets of the detritus of war: hundreds of burned vehicles, piles of masonry and brick, garbage spilling off sidewalks, the rotting carcasses of donkeys, cows and dogs.
Lt. Col. Thomas P. Smith, commander of the brigade's 11th Engineer Battalion, estimated that the troops had removed hundreds of tons of debris as well as thousands of weapons and untold rounds of ammunition, stockpiling them for what will someday be the new Iraqi Army.
More than 40 million dinars that had been found or confiscated -- $200,000 to $300,000, depending on the wildly fluctuating exchange rate -- was turned over to schools and hospitals or used to hire hundreds of day laborers, desperate for work.
One night the brigade arrested scores of looters; the next day they hired many of them.
For the soldiers, it was a jarring transition. Many had served as peacekeepers in Bosnia or Kosovo, but few felt prepared to restore order to a country so soon after war.
"How do you want to break down this wall of wanting to fight?" said Capt. James R. Lockridge, a combat engineer whose job only weeks ago had been to clear mines, to knock down enemy defenses, to destroy weapons and ammunition.
The other day he found himself walking through Al Wasity Hospital, which looters had stripped of virtually everything down to electrical wires, as they had in so many hospitals in Baghdad.
The hospital has become a pet project. Captain Lockridge hired Adnan al-Safar, an electrical engineer, as his foreman, and together they oversaw repairs, replacing lights and circuit breakers, reinstalling air-conditioners, unclogging sewage lines and repairing pipes that had left the hospital without running water.
"You have to trust them," he said in a corridor crowded with patients: men with gunshot wounds, children with broken limbs, women with newborns. "There are 40 or 50 Iraqis around us right now. There could be a suicide bomber."
He paused and added: "At some point you just have to let go. You have to let go of that fear or you won't get anything done."
The needs are immense, his means limited. His goal, he said, was simply "getting Baghdad back to where it's Baghdad."
As he walked out of the hospital, the hospital's ambulance driver confronted him. The hospital had only one ambulance and needed more. "I think there's one over at the Police Academy," Captain Lockridge told him, through an interpreter. "I'll look into that today."

Morale
News From Home Is Not Always Good
The First Brigade received orders in May to prepare to go home via Kuwait. Late last month, Maj. Mark B. Nordstrom, the brigade chaplain, and Capt. Kevin A. Bayles, the brigade doctor, gave their briefings to soldiers about the emotional and physical adjustments they were likely to experience.
Their replacements, the First Armored Division, had arrived and had begun to take over their patrols.
Then a new order came. The First Brigade would stay to act as a reserve in case Baghdad tumbled back into anarchy; its sister brigade, the Second, went to quell pockets of fighters in Falluja, to the west. Only the Third Brigade was going home, along with unneeded units, like the artillery battalions and the division's band.
Back in Georgia, where the Third Infantry Division is based at Fort Stewart and Fort Benning, families had already made "Welcome Home" banners. They were told to stop sending mail on May 21, so most soldiers are not receiving letters or packages anymore.
Major Nordstrom described the last two weeks as "the hardest weeks of my career as a chaplain." He drew a distinction between morale and "fighting morale." He said he meant that the soldiers would still do their jobs, but that they were not happy about it.
Several soldiers have received psychological counseling after showing signs of combat stress: nightmares, sleeplessness, edginess, outbursts of anger and what the chaplain called "intrusive thoughts."
"We have guys whose wives are sick, but not sick enough for them to get emergency leave; guys whose wives are cheating on them -- they've heard through the grapevine," Major Nordstrom said. "And you know, the hardest thing is we don't have anything to offer them."
The mission remains as important as the battles that preceded it, for if some order is not brought to Iraq and the economy restored to a functioning state, the war these men fought so hard to win may seem to have been in vain.
Colonel Grimsley puts it in a larger, political context, understanding the importance of success in Iraq for President Bush and his re-election campaign next year.
"They have invested everything in this," he said.
For the soldiers, this is little solace.
Private O'Dell's wife gave birth to a son on May 31. Sergeant Betancourt married his wife, Nadine, on Dec. 30 and on Jan. 5 reported to a new assignment at Fort Stewart. By the end of that month, he was in Kuwait. He has spent six days with his new wife.
He is of Colombian descent, born in Miami, raised in Medellin. He attended a military academy in Colombia, but spent his last year of high school in Miami so he could learn English and join the Army.
"It wouldn't be so bad if they said nothing," Sergeant Betancourt said about going home.
Then he echoed a complaint heard without exception among the brigade's soldiers. "We're war fighters," he said. "Our job is done."
It was the division's commander, Maj. Gen. Buford C. Blount III, who broke the news of the assignment extension during a conference call to reporters in Georgia two weeks ago. He acknowledged the strains it was causing but said that with a new mission, "morale's getting better every day."
Almost no one here seems to see it that way. Most of the brigade's troops -- the staff members at headquarters and the Second Battalion -- are stationed around the Interior Ministry not far from the city's Olympic Stadium. As many as 10 soldiers to a room live in the building's offices, where there is sporadic electricity and no running water.
The building is hot and stifling and reeks of sweat and filth and human waste. Some soldiers have bought air-conditioners, but they are only as reliable as the electricity. During the day, a dusty, smoky haze settles over Baghdad. Helicopters thud slowly overhead, searching for signs of unrest. At night, there are distant bursts of gunfire, but nowhere near the number these soldiers heard when they first arrived. Things feel safer, but not safe.

Authority
Shifting From Battle To Public Relations
First Lt. Wayne Sok rode a tank as the brigade fought its way to Baghdad. He rides a Humvee now, patrolling the dusty, trash-strewn neighborhood of Riyadh in the city's southeast sector.
During the war, he and the tank crew he commanded killed dozens of Iraqi fighters. During the peace, he organized the election of Iraqis to a neighborhood advisory council. In the neighborhood, he is the face of absolute authority. He is 25.
Last Friday, still in his flak vest, he negotiated a microloan for two of the council's members, Huda Ismail Muhammad and Safana Abdul Hamid Ali. Colonel Grimsley had offered to give the two women money to create a small business selling the kerchiefs and tablecloths they knit at home.
"Four sewing machines," the committee's president, Salaam Hanoon Moslit, said, acting as translator and mediator, as he began to enumerate their needs. "Is it reasonable?"
"Whatever you want," the lieutenant said.
The women conferred in rapid Arabic.
"Six machines," Mr. Moslit said.
By the time they asked for an air-conditioner and a car, it was clear there was a misunderstanding. The women wanted to open a factory; the lieutenant explained that the idea was for them to profit from the work they did at home.
Lieutenant Sok returned to the council's next meeting, on Tuesday night, with a compromise: the Army would give the women $500 to help them make enough of their knittings to sell at a market and provide them with customers by busing in officials with the new interim American authority under L. Paul Bremer III, the Bush administration's provisional governor.
"We will do our best to make it successful; first for us, second for you," Mr. Moslit responded. Then he offered an aside, out of earshot of the lieutenant.
He complained about the putrid water that had built up in the neighborhood's streets after a sewage pipe broke. He complained that he could not open his restaurant for lack of propane and customers. He complained that his council had no contact with the new authorities here, besides Lieutenant Sok.
"They work very slowly," he said of the Americans. "Our people are beginning to get angry, and it's not going to be good."
Lieutenant Sok, from Murfreesboro, Tenn., is striving to do good in this midsummer heat, learning how to jump-start a society, entirely by his wits and instinct. In his military training, he noted, "they didn't teach us any of this stuff."
He went to Middle Tennessee State University and joined the Army a year and a half ago. A few months ago, he said, he focused on only one thing: war. It taught him something.
"Before the war, I was, like, not sure if I could shoot anybody," he said. "I don't feel like that now."
When the war ended, he, too, had to adjust. Driving his Humvee, he pointed to an approaching car and explained it this way: "Like that vehicle: it'd be dead now. Any vehicle coming toward me."

GRAPHIC: Photos: First Lt. Wayne Sok and Dr. Zaid al-Saffar, above left, discussed financial aid for Safana Abdul Hamid Ali, center. Right, soldiers took charge of a rocket launcher in Baghdad.; Sgt. Jaime A. Betancourt now faces a new mission as a peacekeeper in Iraq.; Pfc. Thomas Brown of Shreveport, La., fought his way into Baghdad and helped secure the airport, but when the main fighting ended, his unit's mission changed to peacekeeping. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 8); Weeks ago, Capt. James R. Lockridge was clearing mines. Now he is trying to get Al Wasity Hospital in Baghdad running again. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); AIRPORTS (72%); CURFEW (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (81%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003 



393 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: There Goes the Neighborhood 

BYLINE:  By William Julius Wilson; William Julius Wilson, professor at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government and department of African and African-American studies, was awarded the National Medal of Science in 1998.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
Advocates for the poor have protested President Bush's $350 billion tax cut on many grounds, notably its selective use of the per-child tax credit. But few have discussed its potential effect on one of the more remarkable long-term economic trends of the last decade: the decline in concentrated poverty in America. 
 A recent report for the Brookings Institution by a University of Texas social scientist, Paul Jargowsky, revealed that the number of people residing in high-poverty neighborhoods decreased by 24 percent, or 2.5 million people, from 1990 to 2000. Moreover, the number of such neighborhoods -- the study defined them as census tracts with at least 40 percent of residents below the poverty level -- around the country declined by more than a quarter. 
 The news has been greeted as a major step forward for inner-city blacks, because their neighborhoods tend to feature the highest levels of concentrated poverty. To some extent this is true, although perhaps not in the way either the political left or right are spinning it. And, as promising as the findings are, they do not signify that we've found a magic bullet in the war on poverty.
In fact, the study conforms to the long-held if oft-ignored fact that the state of America's urban core is not separate from that of the country's economy as a whole. Thus the notable reduction in the number of high-poverty neighborhoods, and the substantial decrease in the population of such neighborhoods, may simply be blips of boom times rather than permanent trends.
Social scientists have rightly devoted considerable attention to concentrated poverty because it magnifies the problems associated with poverty in general: joblessness, crime, delinquency, drug trafficking, family breakups and poor "social outcomes" like school performance. Moreover, as Mr. Jargowsky has emphasized in previous research, when high poverty rates spread through a neighborhood, middle- and working-class people tend to see the area as "dangerous." It becomes isolated, socially and economically, as people go out of their way to avoid it.
In 1990 almost a third of blacks lived in such neighborhoods; the 2000 figure was 19 percent. Yet despite this significant improvement, African-Americans still have the highest rates of concentrated poverty. In part, the state of inner-city ghettoes is a legacy of historic racial subjugation. And it is true that racial discrimination and segregation continue to play a role in limiting the progress of many African-Americans. 
However, neither the spectacular rise in black concentrated poverty from 1970 to 1990, nor the dramatic decline from 1990 to 2000, can be explained mainly in terms of race. Rather, these shifts demonstrate that the fate of African-Americans and other racial groups is inextricably connected with changes across the modern economy.
The data bear this out. The declines in concentrated poverty in the 90's occurred not just in a few cities but across the country. Virtually all racial and ethnic groups recorded improvements. The number of whites living in these neighborhoods declined by 29 percent (from 2.7 million people to 1.9 million), and the number of blacks decreased by 36 percent (from 4.8 million to 3.1 million). For all races, the greatest improvements against poverty concentration were in the South and Midwest, the smallest in the Northeast, mirroring wider economic trends.
Nonetheless, there is a tendency among scholars, black leaders and policy makers to view the economic problems in the African-American community, including the growth of concentrated poverty, separately from national and international trends affecting all American families and neighborhoods. One reason may be a desire for tidy solutions. However, if the economic problems of the black community are defined exclusively in terms of race, they can be isolated and seen as requiring only race-specific solutions, as proposed by the political left, or narrow political solutions with subtle racial connotations (like welfare reform), as trumpeted by the right.
A look at the long-term statistics shows that neither welfare reform nor race-based programs seems to have had much to do with changes in poverty concentration. The sharp rise in concentrated poverty occurred during a period of rising income inequality for all Americans that began in the early 1970's. This was a period of decline in inflation-adjusted average incomes among the poor and of growing economic segregation caused by the exodus of middle-income families from inner cities. What had been mixed-income neighborhoods were rapidly transformed into areas of high poverty. 
Almost 30 years ago, the African-American economist Vivian Henderson pointed out that "the economic future of blacks in the United States is bound up with that of the rest of the nation." So, just as blacks suffered greatly during the decades of growing separation between haves and have-nots, they benefited considerably from the incredible economic boom in the last half of the 1990's, which not only substantially reduced unemployment, including black unemployment, but sharply increased the earnings of all low-wage workers as well. 
Undoubtedly, if the robust economy could have been extended for several more years, rather than coming to an abrupt halt in 2001, concentrated poverty in inner cities would have declined even more. 
This cannot be proved now; data on concentrated poverty are provided only by the decennial census. But the Brookings report clearly shows that the favorable trend of the 1990's may be temporary rather than long term. Unemployment and individual poverty rates are on the rise again; more than 2.4 million jobs have disappeared in the last two years. And given the continuing increase in the Hispanic population, the number of high-poverty barrios is likely to grow rapidly in a sluggish economy.
That is why my concern extends beyond the details of Mr. Bush's tax cuts to the big picture. If, as many economists predict, the cuts result in huge budget deficits and further weaken a faltering economy, we may again see the depressingly high levels of concentrated poverty recorded in 1990.
The lesson for those committed to fighting inequality, especially those involved in multiracial coalition politics, is to pay more scrutiny to fiscal, monetary and trade policies that may have long-term consequences for the national and regional economies, as seen in future earnings, jobs and concentrated poverty. We must remember that high-poverty neighborhoods reflect America, all of America.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); TRENDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); CITIES (73%); CENSUS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BLACKS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; URBAN AREAS 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) WILSON, WILLIAM JULIUS (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003 



394 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Online profiling, separating the car buff from the travel seeker, is a new tool to lure advertisers.

BYLINE:  By Nat Ives 

 BODY:
VISITORS to The Wall Street Journal Online today will become the latest lab rats of online advertising, as the Web site starts grouping them into classes like "car buffs" and "consumer techies," all the better to serve them ads for Lexus or NetFlix wherever they may roam on the site.
 Sending ads based on interests usually requires users to register personal information with the individual Web sites. But the Journal Online is joining a growing group of online publishers in adopting technology that can classify users merely by monitoring where they click. 
 The effort, the latest tentative step in the herky-jerky evolution of Internet advertising, contrasts with another increasingly popular approach: intrusive ads that unexpectedly jut into articles or cover most or even all of the screen. 
Such intrusive ads have many fans among marketers. But there are worries that users will resent sites that permit ads to interrupt them too often, and that news sites will risk their credibility if the boundary between advertising and editorial content becomes too faint.
"It is not the way Web sites should be going because it's undermining the very nature of the Web," which offers instant gratification and usefulness, said Jakob Nielsen, a principal at the Nielsen Norman Group in Fremont, Calif., which researches user behavior online. With behavior-based ads, he said, "the challenge becomes, how good can we become at finding out what they want and need? If we do that, there's going to be no need for that disruptive full-screen advertising which says, 'We don't care what you were doing, we're going to slam you with this thing.' "
Getting it wrong could halt a fledgling rebound in online ad spending that may finally be getting under way. A new report from the Interactive Advertising Bureau indicates that ad spending online rose to $1.6 billion in the fourth quarter from $1.5 billion in the previous quarter, the first quarter-over-quarter increase recorded by the bureau since 2000.
Another research group, the TNS Media Intelligence/CMR unit of Taylor Nelson Sofres, reported that Internet advertising totaled $1.5 billion in the first quarter of 2003, up from $1.4 billion in the same period last year.
Offering advertisers another way to slice up the audience was another way to fight for those ad dollars, said Randy Kilgore, vice president for advertising, marketing and sales at the Journal Online, part of Dow Jones.
In the past, auto marketers, for example, could try to reach readers shopping for cars by placing ads near relevant content, like the Journal Online's leasing calculator. "But I don't stop being into a car just because I left the leasing calculator page," Mr. Kilgore said. 
To that end, visitors to various parts of the Journal Online will be placed in one of eight categories -- car buffs, consumer techies, engaged investors, health enthusiasts, leisure-minded, mutual-fund aficionados, opinion leaders and travel seekers -- or into a custom category designed at a marketer's request.
Behavior-based advertising should particularly appeal to sites that do not ask users for personal information to view their content, according to Omar Tawakol, vice president for product marketing and business development at Revenue Science in Bellevue, Wash., which developed the system being used by the Journal Online.
The Journal Online becomes the latest Web publisher to pursue behavior-based advertising. Tacoda Systems in New York provides its Audience Management System to clients like CondeNet, part of the Conde Nast division of Advance Publications; Tribune Interactive, a network of newspaper sites owned by the Tribune Company; and USAToday.com, the Web site for USA Today, owned by Gannett. AlmondNet in New York also offers similar services. And The New York Times on the Web, part of The New York Times Company, in March introduced its own version of behavior-based advertising, developed internally. 
For the Journal, behavior-based advertising also offers a way to seduce advertisers without giving over its pages to distracting animations.
"You won't see Bart Simpson running across our screen," Mr. Kilgore said, referring to the cartoons, sound effects and screen-takeovers that have captured marketers' imaginations in a very different way.
On Slate.com, for instance, a current ad for the Blue card from American Express expands beyond its boundaries, covering portions of articles with gray and blue blobs that eventually coalesce into a credit card as space-age music plays.
Visitors to the Web sites of ABC News, TV Guide and The New York Times last weekend also could see cavemen appear in full-screen, 15-second commercials promoting the Discovery Channel's "Walking with Cavemen" special, which first ran last night.
That these expansive ads, which can be stopped with a single click, are distracting is exactly the point, according to both supporters and detractors.
"One of the biggest problems is that those ads tend to have an unbelievable ability to interrupt whatever a person's doing at that point," said Charlene Li, principal analyst at the San Francisco office of Forrester Research.
"The thing I hear is that if it's interesting and funny, people won't mind as much," Ms. Li added. "And I say that's true, but most of the time they're not."
But backers argue that it provides a better canvas for ad agencies' creative executives than boxy, contained formats, including the larger-size ads also gaining ground.
"We're a television brand," said Susan Campbell, vice president for consumer marketing at the Discovery Channel in Silver Spring, Md., part of Discover Communications. "And our goal in the media that we choose is to try to be as dynamic and multidimensional as we can." The online campaign for "Walking With Cavemen" was created by itraffic in New York, part of Agency.com, and uses technology from Unicast.
Others said the ads might sometimes grate on users, but they were a price of free, quality financial information.
"I can't tell you that there aren't people who say, 'I wish you wouldn't do it,' " said Larry Kramer, chairman and chief executive at CBS MarketWatch, a financial Web site that runs full-screen commercials before users reach its main page for the first time each day. "When I ask how else would you have us do it, they don't have a better answer."
Of course, aiming such ads more carefully might make them irritate less.
Full-screen ads are first and foremost a nuisance, said Michael Cohen, 38, a New York disc jockey who was renting access to the Internet at a copy shop last week.
"It's not the worst thing in the world," Mr. Cohen said, when reminded that ad revenue supports free content online. "It depends on what it is. If it was for a new Lexus, I wouldn't be interested. If it was tickets to a Dylan concert, then I'd be interested."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As online ads, like a recent one for the Discovery Channel, have become more intrusive, The Wall Street Journal Online is taking a different approach, assigning ads based on what users have been reading. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); WEB SITES (78%); RODENTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); PUBLISHING (73%) NEWSPAPERS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRIVACY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (52%); DOW JONES & CO INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WALL STREET JOURNAL 

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (58%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: IVES, NAT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003 



395 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Could It Be Last Dance For Hot 97's Hip-Hop D.J.?

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY and LOLA OGUNNAIKE 

 BODY:
In his three years as a co-host of Hot 97's top-rated "Star and Buc Wild Morning Show" in New York City, the acid-tongued Star was suspended more than a dozen times by the management at the radio station.
 Yet despite ridiculing AT&T, one of Hot 97's top advertisers, and playing blood-curdling screams after the singer Aaliyah died in a plane crash in 2001, Star was always forgiven and welcomed back to his 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. slot. 
 So when he was yanked off the air again about a month ago, listeners could be excused for thinking Star would return shortly. But this time the suspension appears permanent. Star (Troi Torain) stormed out of the Greenwich Village studios of Hot 97, otherwise known by its call letters WQHT-FM. The hip-hop-infused Hot 97 now has a new host for the morning drive, D. J. Sway. And last week Star, who said he was already fielding offers from other radio stations, hired a lawyer to free him from a noncompete clause in his contract that bars him from seeking employment at a rival station until 2005. 
Why Emmis Communications, the owner of Hot 97, would remove the host of the most popular morning show among listeners 18 to 34 in the New York region is one of the radio industry's great mysteries.
The explanation for Emmis's seemingly self-inflicted wound to the bottom line involves the arrival of an Emmis top executive named Barry Mayo to the New York market, Star's steep salary demands and on-air tirades at Mr. Mayo, and the growing competition for the hip-hop market between Emmis and Clear Channel Communications, the nation's largest radio operator.
Emmis dispatched Mr. Mayo to New York four months ago to oversee the company's three local stations as senior vice president and market manager for Emmis New York, replacing Judy Ellis, who decided not to renew her contract after 16 years at the company. Mr. Mayo, 50, is a well-known commodity in the radio industry, working as a consultant before buying Broadcasting Partners, a chain of five financially struggling radio stations, and selling it for a hefty profit. In 1989, a Fortune magazine profile called Mr. Mayo "the turnaround artist" for his ability to overhaul stations and increase ratings.
Mr. Mayo did not waste time once he arrived in New York. In February, he removed the popular "Tom Joyner Morning Show" from Kiss WRKS-FM (98.7), an adult rhythm and blues station, saying that he was dissatisfied with Mr. Joyner's ratings, analysts said. Mr. Joyner's show was the fifth-ranked morning show among adults 25 to 54. He replaced Mr. Joyner with "The Kiss Wake-Up-Call," part of his plan to bring more local voices to the station. 
He has also hired new sales managers and sales teams, while encouraging the on-air personalities to be less offensive in an effort to make current advertisers happier and attract new ones. 
Mr. Mayo and Star soon clashed. No topic was too sacred for Star or his sidekick, Buc Wild (Timothy Joseph). They peppered their show with misogynistic insults and racial epithets. The men, who are both black, poked fun at welfare mothers, Caribbean immigrants and other blacks who favored reparations for slavery. 
While Star and Ms. Ellis occasionally butted heads, he said recently that they worked well together. "We had tension, but we had a good relationship," Star said. "She understood the goal: ratings."
The show was a big draw for listeners 18 to 34, a demographic coveted by advertisers who sell cellphones, soda and athletic gear. But now Hot 97 had some direct competition for the hip-hop listener. In March 2002, Clear Channel changed Jammin' 105 to Power 105, switching to an urban contemporary format from a classic soul station. 
The new format got off to an impressive start. In the first five months, Power 105 leaped to 3rd-ranked, from 13th, in New York radio, according to Arbitron, the commercial rating service. In the latest ratings period, from March through May, Power 105 was fourth in the market; Hot 97 was second, behind Clear Channel's light music station WLTW-FM (106.7). The "Star and Buc Wild Morning Show," though, fell from third over all to fifth. Power 105's morning show tied for 11th. 
Amid these shifts in ratings, the relationship between Star and Mr. Mayo became more strained. Star was stand-offish toward Mr. Mayo and increased his vituperative on-air comments about certain advertisers. Meanwhile, Star was seeking a new contract, worth $2.7 million annually, and a higher profile representing Hot 97 at community events, things Mr. Mayo was cool to, according to analysts who have had dealings with Mr. Mayo. Mr. Mayo declined to comment for this article, as did other executives at Emmis.
Then, three weeks ago, Star said, he ripped 20 awards plaques off the walls of Hot 97's offices and stormed off the air and out of the station's office on Hudson Street. He said that Mr. Mayo withheld two $30,000 salary checks that were owed him.
When asked if his reaction was extreme, Star was unrepentant. "I'm very confident and outspoken, and black men like myself are always viewed as having a chip on our shoulder," said Star. In a recent interview he even called Mr. Mayo, who is black, "Benson," the butler from the 1980's sitcom. 
"He has no real power in the white man's house," Star said. "This is about this Negro not knowing how to deal with a person of my caliber."
With management changes at Hot 97 and the departure of Star, Clear Channel executives see an opportunity to increase Power 105's ratings and lure away advertisers from its rival. "It can only mean good things for us," said Tom Poleman, program director for Clear Channel New York and Z-100 (WHTZ-FM), the top pop music station in the city. "Star was a well-established brand. Those listeners are looking for new places to go and we have some excellent shows." And Clear Channel executives have said privately that they are interested in hiring Star for one of the company's stations.
With Hot 97's morning show upended, and Angie Martinez, another popular host, on maternity leave, some analysts have expressed concern about Emmis's ability to maintain its stronghold in New York. Emmis operates 18 FM stations and 3 AM stations, but its 3 New York stations are its most lucrative. Emmis's New York stations contributed about 34 percent of its total radio net revenue of $65.7 million and 43 percent of its cash flow of $31.4 million in 2002, an increase over the previous year, said Bishop Cheen, a fixed income and communications analyst for Wachovia Securities.
Jeffrey H. Smulyan, president and chairman of Emmis, told analysts last month that he was pleased with WQHT's recovery against Power 105, especially during an economic downturn, which was brought on by the attacks on Sept. 11. 
"We feel that it has recovered for a lot of reasons," Mr. Smulyan said of the New York market. "I think there is a renewed focus on some sales strategies and some new people in sales and management."
Star has a different take on the matter. "Doomsday is coming for Hot 97 and it will be spearheaded by me," he said.
Now it will be up to the listeners to decide.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Star (Troi Torain), left, and Buc Wild (Timothy Joseph), right, on WQHT-FM before Star's most recent suspension. (David Corio) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COVENANTS NOT TO COMPETE (87%); RANKINGS (78%); CONTRACTS LAW (72%); JAZZ & BLUES (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (56%) RADIO; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WQHT-FM (NYC RADIO STATION); EMMIS COMMUNICATIONS CORP; CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC; WWPR (NYC) (RADIO STATION) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%)

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE; OGUNNAIKE, LOLA; MAYO, BARRY; TORAIN, TROI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003 



396 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 104 words

HEADLINE: How L.A. Is Like Iraq 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The bloodshed in Los Angeles that Bob Herbert details in "Where Fear Rules the Street" and "L.A.'s Streets of Death" (columns, June 9 and 12) is downright sickening. 
 South and East Los Angeles are plagued by persistent unemployment and random violence, much like postwar Iraq. Will our government send peacekeeping forces into Los Angeles to confiscate weapons, restore order and rebuild the local economy? 
 Unfortunately, in this age of fervent tax-cutting, it seems that there's only enough money for nation-building in "strategically important" parts of the world.

GEOFFREY J. KING
Austin, Tex., June 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%) CRIME AND CRIMINALS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: KING, GEOFFREY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) IRAQ; LOUISIANA

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003 



397 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: DMZ Twist: U.S. Plans Unsettle North Korea 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, June 10 

 BODY:
When the Pentagon announced its plans to pull American troops away from the border with North Korea, attention focused mostly on South Korea and its objections to losing the protection of the so-called tripwire. What was largely overlooked were the protests from the party that felt most threatened by the change: North Korea.
 The tripwire, it seems, works both ways. 
 Ever since the armistice ending the Korean War was signed on July 27, 1953, North Korea has bitterly denounced the presence of American garrisons near the border. While the 700,000 North Korean soldiers in the border area outnumber the 14,000 American troops by 50 to 1, North Korea implicitly accepted the real strategic value of the tripwire: if the North Koreans ever repeated their surprise attack of 1950, American deaths would draw the United States into a second Korean War. 
In a new twist, North Korea now fears that if the United States rolls up its human tripwire, it will free the United States to bomb nuclear sites near Pyongyang, the capital. In the military chess game on the Korean Peninsula, by moving American troops out of range of North Korea's border artillery, the United States gains a strategic advantage.
"Our army and people will answer the U.S. arms buildup with a corresponding powerful deterrent force and its pre-emptive attack with a prompt retaliation to destroy it at the initial stage of war," North Korea's official Korean Central News Agency said recently.
Alexandre Mansourov, a former Russian diplomat in Pyongyang who now teaches at the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies in Hawaii, translated North Korea's concerns, saying, "If the U.S. pulls out of the bases, North Korea knows that the U.S. is preparing a pre-emptive strike."
Removing the tripwire deprives North Korea of two other critical strategic advantages. Without the American bases near the demilitarized zone, North Korean military leaders lose the chance to drape themselves in nationalist colors by killing large numbers of Americans. Lacking those American targets, North Korea would have to resume threatening to turn Seoul into a "sea of fire," which would undermine its stated desire for harmonious relations with South Korea.
In addition, China, which increasingly sees North Korea as an economic millstone, is likely to oppose strongly any attack on South Korea, which is now one of China's top five trading partners and foreign investors.
For their part, South Koreans, by and large, are almost as nervous as the North Koreans. While the public image of South Korea is which often focuses on anti-American protests, polls indicate that a largely silent majority want the American troops to stay put.
Calling the tripwire "a psychological defense line" against North Korea, a group of 133 National Assembly members, about half the total, have begun a drive to collect 10 million signatures to oppose the move.
To reassure the South Koreans, the United States promised to continue to carry out training in areas near the demilitarized zone.
This American pledge "will mean that U.S. troops will continue to play the role of a tripwire to deter war," said South Korea's assistant defense minister for policy, Lt. Gen. Cha Young Koo, in an effort to sell the public on the unpopular deal that he was forced to accept.
For Americans, this concept is glaringly out of date in light of the war in Iraq, where much of the attack was waged by long-distance bombs and cruise missiles instead of soldiers climbing out of trenches. In an age when American and British forces took over Iraq in three weeks and lost fewer than 200 soldiers, the idea of leaving 14,000 troops exposed to withering bombardments seems nonsensical.
"The term or concept of tripwire is an antiquated one and doesn't bear a lot of relevance to current data," Adm. Thomas B. Fargo, commander of the American Pacific Command, said recently in Tokyo. "When you have missiles that go hundreds of miles or actually thousands of miles; you can threaten a porch or an airfield a couple of hundred miles away, forces that are tens of miles away don't constitute a tripwire. So that's a term that I think has outlived its usefulness."
But not, perhaps, to the North Koreans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ARMIES (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); TERRORISM (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TERRORISM 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) HAWAII, USA (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); CHINA (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; CHINA; PYONGYANG (NORTH KOREA)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003 



398 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles City Council Retaliates Against Mayor 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 15 

 BODY:
The Los Angeles City Council, ordinarily a rather pliant body, rose up in revolt this month, rejecting Mayor James K. Hahn's proposed $5.1 billion budget for the coming fiscal year and imposing its own version.
 The Council was motivated in part by personal pique. 
 The mayor and his brash police chief, William J. Bratton, the former New York City police commissioner, had accused Council members of being, in Chief Bratton's words, "missing in action" in the fight against crime by refusing to allocate $30 million as part of the new budget for the hiring of 320 new police officers.
Saying that the city could not afford the new hires in a weak economy, the Council retaliated by turning down the mayor's spending plan, with 11 voting against the mayor, 3 siding with him and one member absent. 
The Council's action may indicate an important shift in institutional power in Los Angeles, where the mayor traditionally sets the city's broad priorities while the 15 Council members tend to the more parochial concerns of their districts. The 11 members who voted against the mayor included several who had once been his most reliable allies.
The episode left members of the Council feeling an unfamiliar sense of empowerment.
"The city charter says there is a balance of power between the mayor and the Council," said Alex Padilla, the Council president, who has generally supported Mayor Hahn but who led the group that rebuffed him on the budget. "For the last two years, the mayor and the Council agreed on a heck of a lot. But on this one, it just didn't happen. I think it was a healthy test of the relationship."
Mr. Padilla's diplomatic language masked the passion of the political fracas that played out over the last several weeks.
Chief Bratton, who plays politics by a less genteel set of rules than Mr. Hahn, infuriated the Council by suggesting it was jeopardizing the safety of the citizenry and leaving police officers vulnerable by not supporting the hiring plan. He said that by its actions the Council was inviting Osama bin Laden to attack Los Angeles and putting police officers at the mercy of armed gangs.
In a radio interview during the battle with the Council, Chief Bratton said: "Let them start attending some of the funerals of the victims of crimes. Let them start attending some of the scenes of crimes like I do every night in this city."
Mr. Padilla called those remarks "offensive and insulting." Chief Bratton then sent individual apologies to all 15 members of the Council.
Despite the very public tension between the mayor and the Council in the days leading up to the budget vote, Mr. Hahn said he was surprised that the Council turned on him.
"I felt blindsided by the whole issue," he said in a recent interview. "I had never seen anything like it in 20 years in city government. There was no warning that something like this was coming."
Some Council members say there was plenty of warning.
They say they advised the mayor in public and in private that he had failed to explain adequately what his priorities were and how he intended to pay for them. Mr. Hahn's predecessor, Richard J. Riordan, used to spend at least an hour or two with each member of the Council in the weeks before the release of his budget, laying out the plan and offering inducements for support in the form of discretionary spending in their districts.
But Mr. Hahn did not tend those vines, perhaps emboldened -- some members of the Council and some outside analysts say -- by two major political victories in his first two years as mayor.
Last year Mr. Hahn engineered the resignation of Bernard C. Parks as police chief. He also helped defeat seccession efforts in the San Fernando Valley.
Mr. Parks is now a member of the City Council and was among those who voted against the mayor on the budget.
Janice Hahn, a member of the Council and the mayor's sister, said the mayor and his aides had overestimated their persuasiveness. "They just took it for granted they had the votes," she said. "They counted their chickens before they hatched. I accused them at one point of not knowing how to count votes."
Ms. Hahn, one of the three Council members who voted with the mayor, said she did not think he would suffer long-term harm from the rebuff. She said the citizens of her district, at least, were mystified that the Council appeared more concerned about future budget deficits than about mayhem in the streets.
Jaime A. Regalado, executive director of the Pat Brown Institute of Public Affairs at California State University at Los Angeles, said he suspected that Mr. Hahn's budget -- and the vigor with which he and Mr. Bratton defended it -- was a calculated plan to put the Council on the defensive.
"I think it was an issue that the mayor felt was a win-win for him," Mr. Regalado said. "Jimmy has not shown, shall we say, impressive leadership. This was a way for him to establish his own imprint as a leader."
Mr. Regalado said he believed the city would eventually find the money to hire the new officers. In the long run, he said, Mr. Hahn's position will be strengthened. 
"In the perceived power dynamics between the mayor and the Council, he appears to have lost a battle, but he won the war," Mr. Regalado said. "All the public will remember is that he was fighting to hire more cops."
Mr. Hahn said that he hoped to put the recent unpleasantness behind him, and that he remained determined to put more police on the streets. He said he was going to try to find a way, even in a rocky economy, to replace the more than 900 uniformed officers the Los Angeles Police Department lost between 1997 and 2001.
"That's why I got so exercised about this whole issue," Mr. Hahn said. "It seemed the Council was saying that if anything had to be cut it should be public safety. To me, that's the last thing that ought to be cut."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Police Chief William J. Bratton, left, and Mayor James K. Hahn are at the center of a budget dispute with the City Council in Los Angeles. (Associated Press); Alex Padilla, president of the City Council, led the group that rebuffed the mayor on the budget. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); POLITICS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (68%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; POLICE; POLICE; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) BRODER, JOHN M; HAHN, JAMES K (MAYOR); BRATTON, WILLIAM J (POLICE CHIEF); PADILLA, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003 



399 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: City Milestone: Number of Jews Is Below Million 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH BERGER 

 BODY:
The Jewish population of New York City has fallen by 5 percent since 1991, dipping below one million for the first time in a century, according to a roughly once-a-decade study that is being released today by the UJA-Federation of New York.
 But Jews who left the city seemed to stay in the area, because the Jewish population has risen by a corresponding amount in three suburban counties in New York state. 
 The study, regarded as the most authoritative count of the Jewish population, said there were 972,000 Jews in New York City in 2002. That was a moderate drop from the 1990's and 1980's but less than half the peak of two million living in the five boroughs in the late 1950's. The study also showed that the decline would have been steeper if not for an influx of Jews from the former Soviet Union during the 1990's. 
But the addition of those immigrants -- now totaling 186,000 -- a sluggish economy and an aging population helped to more than double the rate of poverty among the city's Jews since 1991, according to the survey. One in five Jewish households in New York City -- one in six if three suburban counties are included -- reports an income that meets a commonly accepted definition of poverty. 
Overall, the Jewish population in the eight-county region covered by UJA-Federation -- the five counties of the city as well as Westchester, Nassau and Suffolk Counties -- has remained stable at about 1.4 million, as many successful Jews left the city to settle in the nearby suburbs. The growth in Westchester's Jewish population is particularly striking, climbing 40 percent since 1991.
The study's figures suggest pivotal changes in an ethnic and religious group that has helped shape the culture, music, language and very accent of the city itself. Some experts say the decline within the city will have repercussions for Jewish political representation and influence. Edward I. Koch, the former mayor, said he expected the decline to moderate the generally liberal tinge of city politics, a trend that he said would be enhanced because Russian Jews are often more conservative because of their experience with Communism. 
"The Jews have set the philosophical agenda based on their history, the idea of 'We have to take care of everybody' and 'Justice, justice,' " he said. "I think there will be less of that."
But others cautioned that making predictions about Jewish influence on the basis of population numbers can be tricky. Dr. Jacob B. Ukeles, who along with Dr. Ron Miller was the study's principal investigator, said that Jews had been leaving the city at a lower rate than other non-Hispanic whites, and so constitute an increasing share -- now almost 35 percent -- of the city's white population. Others pointed out that exit polls in 1992 and 2001 show that Jews, who vote at a higher-than-average rate, comprise an increasing percentage of all voters. 
The study contained other significant findings for the Jewish community. The proportion of Jews who call themselves Orthodox has increased sharply over the decade, to 19 percent from 13 percent. The proportions of Reform and Conservative Jews have fallen accordingly. The rate of interfaith marriage, which rose sharply in the 1970's, has stabilized, the study found, with 13 percent of Jews marrying someone of another faith.
Since the United States Census does not ask religious questions, the survey is likely to be the gold-standard measure of Jewish population in New York City and the three suburban counties. The study was based on telephone interviews with 4,533 randomly selected households conducted between March and September 2002. It has a margin of error for various parts of 1.8 to 2.7 percentage points.
Dr. Ukeles pointed out that given the margin of error, the Jewish population for the city might be seen as holding steady.
Nevertheless, Jewish communal leaders have been anticipating the results for months and many understood that a figure below one million would be a significant milestone in the city's Jewish history. In the first decade of the 1900's, when Jews from Eastern Europe and Russia immigrated to the United States in large numbers, the Jewish population grew from 600,000 to 1,250,000, according to the primitive estimates at that time. It continued to flourish and in 1957 was counted at just over two million, meaning that one out of four New Yorkers was Jewish, compared with one in eight today. 
But an increase in Jewish affluence as well as a surge in citywide crime and turmoil, led to an exodus of Jews to the suburbs, particularly from the Bronx in the 1970's. (Today, the Bronx has approximately 45,000 Jews, scarcely more than Staten Island, with 42,000 Jews, up 27 percent in the last decade.)
By 1981, the Jewish population stood at 1.1 million. By 1991, that figure was at 1.027 million.
Although the study did not look at New Jersey or Connecticut and other New York counties, the American Jewish Yearbook shows that in 2001, there were 417,000 Jews in northeastern New Jersey, 90,000 in Rockland County, N.Y., and about 62,000 Jews in the Connecticut communities of New Haven, Bridgeport, Westport, Stamford and Greenwich.
The Jewish population of the United States was put at 5.5 million on the last completed study, taken in 1990, Dr. Ukeles said. A tentative study released last October put the national Jewish population at 5.2 million, but the study's methods and definitions have been questioned.
The new study of the New York area was designed in part to alert Jewish communal agencies how to tend to the population and from that point of view, the new poverty figures surprised many. Dr. Ukeles blamed much of the increase in poverty on the economy and on an increase in the proportion of immigrants, who tend to be poorer at least for their first few years in the country. But stories like that of Cathy Markowitz show that other factors come into play as well.
Mrs. Markowitz, the mother of three teenage boys, said she had been living a solid middle-class life in a house in Baldwin on Long Island when her husband, an accountant, suffered a severe stroke in 2000. She discovered that his health insurance was not paid up and that he had not put away enough money to care for his family. Now divorced, she receives Medicaid and food stamps and earns $24,000 a year as a medical receptionist.
"All Jewish people are not wealthy," she said. "What happened to me can happen to anybody."
The study found that engagement in Jewish religious and communal life remains very high, with 92 percent in the 8 counties saying that the survival of Israel was very important to them, and 86 percent saying it was very important to help struggling or endangered Jews.
In New York City, and particularly Manhattan, Jews consider it less important to belong to a synagogue than do Jews in other parts of the country. Dr. Ukeles speculated that the smaller numbers of synagogue affiliation may be because of the many Jewish cultural offerings in the city that fill the need for Jewish identification. Still, only 16 percent of respondents in the 8 counties said they never attend synagogue during the year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (94%); COUNTIES (90%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); POVERTY RATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); AGING TRENDS (73%); RELIGION (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%); LIBERALISM (67%); POLITICS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); AGING (52%) POPULATION; JEWS 

ORGANIZATION: UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003 



400 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Aircraft Executives Talk of Industry'sStruggles 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: PARIS, June 15 

 BODY:
Senior executives of the world's two biggest makers of passenger jets underlined the difficult economics of commercial aviation today -- while sticking with their forecasts for the number of planes they will deliver this year.
 Alan Mulally, the head of the passenger jet business of one of the manufacturers, Boeing, said the company was on target to reach the delivery of 280 planes. Noel Forgeard, the chief executive of the other company, Airbus, confirmed his goal of 300 aircraft. 
 The rival companies have struggled to keep orders and deliveries flowing as airlines reduce their passenger capacity. Air travel has recently declined further because of fear of SARS, the Iraq war and economic uncertainty in Europe and the United States.
Meeting the goal of 300 "will be quite an achievement in view of existing conditions," Mr. Forgeard said. Last year, Airbus delivered 303 planes.
Mr. Forgeard said that "the three years ahead will be difficult for all industry players, including Airbus," and described the downturn in the airline business "as the most severe crisis the aviation industry has ever faced."
Mr. Mulally said Boeing was working intensively with customers and had cut its production capacity. "It's really tough for the airlines," he said. "They need to get their balance sheets repaired and get profitable again."
He said Boeing would deliver 280 planes this year, down from 381 in 2002, and estimated 275 to 300 in 2004. Orders, he said, were likely to begin recovering in earnest in 2005.
Each executive promoted his company's concept for the next leap forward in air travel -- Airbus with its 550-seat A380, to enter service in 2006, and Boeing with its fuel-efficient 7E7 expected in 2008. Neither plane has flown yet.
Neither executive expressed much worry about the roughly 2,100 aircraft that have been taken out of service worldwide. Many are older planes that were near the end of their life span, and only 500 to 600 could be brought back into service, they said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (72%); IRAQ WAR (69%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SALES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; AIRBUS INDUSTRIE 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%) SIC3721 AIRCRAFT; SIC3728 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & EQUIPMENT; SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2003 

 
