

1 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (CBS) CHAOSFreddy Rodriguez (''Six Feet Under'') stars as Rick Martinez, a C.I.A. spy whose dream job is eliminated on Day 1 but who is saved just in time by the agency's deputy director, H. J. Higgins (Kurtwood Smith). Higgins thinks the new guy would be a perfect addition -- as a mole -- to the roster of unruly agents in the Clandestine Administration and Oversight Services. Otherwise known as Chaos, the division is assigned to handle threats to national security, the biggest of which seem to be its own bureaucratic gridlock and incompetence. But when the agents dig up dirt on Rick, he finds himself playing their game. Eric Close portrays Michael Dorset, a psychologist turned operative motivated by paranoia; James Murray is Billy Collins, a Scot who was decommissioned from the British Secret Service and banished; Tim Blake Nelson (above right, with Mr. Close, center, and Mr. Rodriguez) is Casey Malick, whose understated demeanor serves to camouflage his ability to transform into a ''human weapon''; and Christina Cole is Adele Ferrer, who seems to have Rick's best interests at heart. But perhaps most dangerous is Fay Carson (Carmen Ejogo), an alluring agent with an uncanny ability for getting at the truth. 
8 P.M. (Disney) PHINEAS AND FERB: PHINEAS'S BIRTHDAY CLIP-O-RAMA! As a birthday present to Phineas, Ferb puts together clips from previous episodes that show off the boys' best inventions. New animated segments tie it all together.
8 P.M. (NBC) WHO DO YOU THINK YOU ARE? Gwyneth Paltrow traces the roots of her paternal grandfather, a man driven to succeed in the face of adversity. In the process she gleans insight into the character of her great-grandmother and discovers that her mother's ancestors have deep roots in Barbados.
8:30 P.M. (13) NEED TO KNOW Maria Hinojosa revisits the story of military households where caring for a wounded family member dominates the lives of others; another segment examines police-force layoffs in Camden, N.J., one of the nation's poorest and most violent cities. Also, Win Rosenfeld interviews Jon Wertheim, a senior writer at Sports Illustrated, about the ways that morality, psychology and economics affect sports. And Jon Meacham speaks with Jeff Greenfield about his new book, ''Then Everything Changed.''
9 P.M. (NBC) DATELINE NBC Dennis Murphy explores the fatal shootings of a husband and a son in a quiet Georgia town.
9 P.M. (BBC America) LAW & ORDER: UK The murder of a soccer player, which at first glance looks like a random robbery gone wrong, leads to a London crime ring when the prime suspect turns star witness.
10 P.M. (Starz) CAMELOT In this sexually charged interpretation of the Arthurian legend, Britain is engulfed by darkness and chaos after the death of King Uther, and the sorcerer Merlin (Joseph Fiennes) goes in search of Arthur (Jamie Campbell Bower), Uther's unknown son and heir, whom he believes can reunite the kingdom. Meanwhile Arthur's ambitious half-sister, Morgan (Eva Green), will wield whatever unnatural forces are necessary to take over the throne. Only Guinevere (Tamsin Egerton, above, with Mr. Bower) can shine some light into Arthur's harsh world. Chris Chibnall (''Torchwood'' and ''Law & Order: UK'') is the chief writer on this new series, created with Michael Hirst (''The Tudors'').
9:30 P.M. (TLC) SAY YES TO THE DRESS: RANDY KNOWS BEST Randy Fenoli, the fashion director of Kleinfeld Bridal, presents the top 10 gowns most flattering to specific body shapes.
10 P.M. (Current TV) BAR KARMA In the latest installment of this series, which allows viewers to shape the action in a magical watering hole at the edge of the universe, Dayna (Cassie Howarth), the lone waitress, leaves the safety of the bar to rescue its owner, Doug (Matthew Humphreys), who is trying to stop a hacker from releasing a virus that will destroy the Internet.
10 P.M. (HBO) REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER Randy Cohen, who formerly wrote the Ethicist column for The New York Times Magazine; Doug Heye, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee; and Senator Bernard Sanders, independent of Vermont, are seated at the round table. The artist and filmmaker Julian Schnabel, whose most recent movie, ''Miral,'' is about an orphaned Palestinian girl growing up in the wake of war, and Tim Shriver, the chairman of the Special Olympics, are interview guests. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI BACHLAKOV/CBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); SOCCER (69%); WRITERS (66%); MURDER (62%); ATHLETES (60%); WITNESSES (60%); SHOOTINGS (60%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED KINGDOM (87%); BARBADOS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



2 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: The Jobless See A Lifeline at Risk

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
PALM COAST, Fla. -- With his worn black canvas briefcase at his feet, Richard Dudenhoeffer, a cabinet maker, stood at a computer at the one-stop employment center and scrolled through Florida's employment listings before settling on three applications: Custodian for the Flagler County School Board. City meter reader. Assistant manager at a tractor supply company.
In the year he has been collecting unemployment checks in Flagler County, where joblessness remains stubbornly high, Mr. Dudenhoeffer, 61, has not even gotten his foot in the door, despite his almost daily efforts to find a job, any job. No interviews. No phone calls. No e-mails. No flicker of hope.
Without charity and his $247 weekly unemployment check, he would lose it all, he said, starting with his mobile home and his car, a lifeline in a county with no public transportation. 
''I sold my 9-millimeter gun,'' Mr. Dudenhoeffer said offhandedly, after rattling off the possessions -- coin collection, gold jewelry -- he had sold to stay afloat. ''It was too tempting to blow my brains out.'' He added, ''I am just so depressed.''
For the jobless like Mr. Dudenhoeffer, the outlook does not look immediately brighter.
The Florida House of Representatives approved a bill in March that would establish the deepest and most far-reaching cuts in unemployment benefits in the nation. Like the law signed in Michigan on Monday, the measure would reduce the number of weeks the unemployed could collect benefits from the standard 26 weeks to 20.
But the House proposal in Florida -- in a high-unemployment state that already has some of the lowest benefits -- takes it one step further by tying benefits to the unemployment rate. If the rate falls, so do the number of weeks of benefits. If the rate dips below 5 percent, the jobless would collect only 12 weeks of benefits, the lowest level.
This has workers worried in Florida, where the unemployment rate, while continuing to inch down, is 11.5 percent, considerably higher than the nation's rate of 8.9 percent. Michigan's rate is 10.4 percent.
The Senate is taking a less stringent approach in its bill, choosing not to reduce the number of weeks or tie benefits to the unemployment rate. The two chambers are expected to resolve their differences within the next few weeks.
The House version, which would take effect Aug. 1 if signed into law and affect people who apply after that date, would also make it easier for businesses to fire employees, who would then not be eligible for unemployment benefits.
The bill's sponsor, Representative Doug Holder, a Sarasota Republican, said creating jobs is pivotal to keeping Floridians off the unemployment rolls. Businesses need the state's help in doing that, Mr. Holder said. The average number of weeks people remain on unemployment compensation is 17.7 weeks, he added, and that means most people would be unaffected, at least in terms of how long they would collect benefits. More than 535,000 Floridians were receiving benefits as of March 26.
''Florida is positioning itself to be the most business-friendly state in the country,'' said Representative Holder, whose bill would also help weed out those who do not have legitimate claims. ''Our unemployment compensation trust fund has gone broke. We have to replenish it. The best way to do that and to right a capsized economy is to provide more jobs.''
Others disagree.
''To talk about cutting the maximum number of weeks down to as low as 12 is basically accepting as a certainty that lots more people will run out of benefits before they find employment and that they will go many weeks without any income,'' said George Wentworth, senior staff attorney for the National Employment Law Project, which advocates for workers. ''It's cruel as a matter of public policy, and it's really kind of wrongheaded in terms of the local economy.''
But the business community, led by the Florida Chamber of Commerce, has made passing the House version of the bill a priority, contending that businesses would benefit greatly from relief from the escalating tax to pay for jobless compensation. This year the tax on business owners jumped to $72.10 a year for each employee from $25.20, still relatively low, but it is expected to climb steeply because Florida's unemployment fund is running a $2.1 billion deficit. Thirty other states are facing deficits in their unemployment programs.
''This is our thorniest problem this year,'' said Bill Herrle, Florida executive director of the National Federation of Independent Business. ''There is no happy solution. It's intractable. We have an enormous problem. Our take is that big problems require solutions from all the participants.''
Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican who has made job creation a cornerstone of his tenure, supports the House approach.
But to some here in Flagler County, where the economy rose higher but fell harder than in any other in Florida in the past decade, the idea of creating jobs by taking away meager benefits from people whose lives have been upended does not seem just. From 2000 to 2010, this slice of Florida, just north of Daytona Beach, had the highest population growth in the state, spurred by construction as houses multiplied along vast stretches of open land. The collapse here was equally drastic. Construction jobs disappeared practically overnight, and the county now has the state's highest unemployment rate, 14.9 percent.
Jobs make news here. A few weeks ago word spread that new Red Lobster and Olive Garden restaurants in town were ready to hire. Hundreds lined up in the sun to file their applications. Only a few dozen were accepted.
Standing outside the employment center here, Leslie Stultz, a trim 62-year-old man with a Jamaican lilt, said politicians were too quick to dismiss how difficult it was for some people to find jobs in this region of Florida, particularly for workers in their 50s and 60s. Relocating is out of the question when there is no money in the bank, Mr. Stultz said.
He said he recently lost his temporary job performing quality control for a company that manufactures sunscreen. It was his second layoff in two years, he said. His wife, a home health care worker, has seen her income drop sharply. Now he is fighting with the bank to arrange affordable payments so he can keep his tidy white stucco house, decorated with Egyptian artwork and mirrors and with a pool out back, in one of Palm Coast's many walled-off developments.
''People aren't sitting back relaxing and collecting $275 a week,'' Mr. Stultz said. ''There are no jobs here, and there are so many unemployed people.''
Mr. Dudenhoeffer, whose kind eyes grow weary as he retells his journey from small-business owner to perpetual job seeker, said he could hear the clock ticking. He explained that had exhausted his state benefits and was now collecting emergency federal benefits. He said he tried to be optimistic. And despite his grim situation, there are occasional moments of happiness. On his birthday recently, friends collected money to buy him a gift card for Red Lobster.
Still, watching his online job applications simply fall into a void again and again, Mr. Dudenhoeffer said he could not help growing despondent.
''When the benefits run out,'' he said, ''I'll just give up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Job-hunting materials outside a job center in Flagler County, which has 14.9 percent unemployment.
Richard Dudenhoeffer, 61, of Flagler County, Fla., has been hunting for a job for a year but has yet to get a single response.(A15)
 Unemployed Floridians learn computer skills on a training bus at a job center in Flagler County. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); APPROVALS (72%); COINS & COINAGE (71%)

COMPANY: TRACTOR SUPPLY CO (72%)

TICKER: TSCO (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444210 OUTDOOR POWER EQUIPMENT STORES (72%); SIC5261 RETAIL NURSERIES, LAWN & GARDEN SUPPLY STORES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



3 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: New Claims for U.S. Jobless Benefits Declined Last Week

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing new claims for jobless benefits fell last week and factory employment in the Midwest hit a 27-year high in March, more signs that an improvement in the labor market is under way. 
''Everything that we have seen is pointing to an acceleration in the pace of job growth,'' said Millan Mulraine, a senior macro strategist at TD Securities in New York.
Initial claims for state jobless benefits slipped 6,000, to a seasonally adjusted 388,000, the Labor Department said on Thursday, a day before the release of the government's closely watched monthly employment report.
Although the four-week moving average of unemployment claims, which is a better measure of underlying trends, rose 3,250, to 394,250, it held beneath the crucial 400,000 level for a fifth consecutive week. Overall claims have been below the level that is associated with steady job growth for three consecutive weeks.
''The important metric for claims is the level, and it's below the 400,000 mark, which is generally deemed as the point that is consistent with the economy providing between 150,000 and 200,000 jobs. This report certainly points to that,'' Mr. Mulraine said.
Separately, the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago's employment index hit the highest level since December 1983, jumping to 65.6 in March from just under 60 in February.
Its overall business barometer dipped to 70.6 from 71.2 in February but remained in expansion mode.
Though annual revisions to the jobless claims back to 2006 showed slightly higher readings for recent weeks than previously estimated, the downward shift remained intact.
''There is every reason to expect that to continue as the return of bank credit to small businesses allows them to hold onto people who might otherwise have been laid off,'' said Ian C. Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y.
The claims data falls outside the survey period for March's employment report, to be released on Friday.
While job creation is on an upward trajectory, the economy took a step back in the early months of 2011. That was highlighted by the easing in Midwest manufacturing activity in March and a dip in orders at the nation's factories in February.
A report from the Commerce Department showed that new orders for manufactured goods fell 0.1 percent in February after rising 3.3 percent in January.
The claims report showed the number of people still receiving benefits under regular state programs after an initial week of aid dropped in the week ended March 19 to its lowest level since October 2008.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); TRENDS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (62%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



4 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Praise From Those Who've Run in His Shoes

BYLINE: By GREG BISHOP; Pete Thamel contributed reporting.

 BODY:
STORRS, Conn. -- Outside Gampel Pavilion on Tuesday afternoon, Connecticut students honked horns and screamed out car windows at the mere sight of Kemba Walker, college basketball's most electrifying player since early March. Walker ducked inside for a scheduled news media session, only to find about two dozen reporters waiting.
Walker simply shook his head. He had no answers for the past nine games, all elimination contests, all UConn victories. Taken together, those games comprise the single best stretch not only of Walker's career, but also perhaps in the history of UConn men's basketball. The next installment will take place Saturday in Houston, against Kentucky in the Final Four.
''What he's doing is unprecedented,'' said Dallas Mavericks forward Caron Butler, one in a long line of N.B.A. players from Connecticut. ''I've never seen anything like it.'' 
Starting March 8, UConn played nine games in the Big East and N.C.A.A. tournaments. Walker logged 344 of 365 possible minutes in those games and averaged 26.3 points, 5.9 rebounds, 5.3 assists and 2.2 steals. He made a buzzer-beater against Pittsburgh, grabbed 12 rebounds against Syracuse, had 12 assists against Bucknell and scored 36 points against San Diego State.
Ben Gordon, a former UConn guard now with the Detroit Pistons, is one of the few who compiled a similar stretch of sustained brilliance. He still remembers what it felt like. In 2004, he led the Huskies to Big East and N.C.A.A. tournament titles with an unshakeable focus. Even in class, or during down time, he was consumed with basketball, with the run. He thought of nothing else.
Yet Gordon's 2004 team featured seven future N.B.A. players, including Emeka Okafor, who was named the tournament's outstanding player. Because the current Huskies have seven freshmen, five of whom play regularly, Butler, Okafor and Gordon, in separate telephone interviews, described Walker's run as beyond anything they accomplished. Okafor called it ''more remarkable'' for its five Big East victories in five days, the first time that has been accomplished. Gordon used ''more impressive'' and said the N.B.A. equivalent would be sweeping every series in the playoffs.
Perhaps the closest comparison came from Syracuse Coach Jim Boeheim, who invoked Carmelo Anthony's 2003 N.C.A.A. championship run with Boeheim's team. Most great UConn players, Boeheim said, played alongside skilled sidekicks, like Donyell Marshall with Ray Allen, or Khalid El-Amin with Richard Hamilton. Others, like Butler, saw their best runs end earlier than Walker's.
''He's had to do the most,'' Boeheim said. ''Kemba has the youngest group of guys you could possibly have, so what he's done is more impressive than anyone in a long time.''
The seeds for Walker's run were sown last summer, when his teammate Alex Oriakhi repeatedly told Walker he was the best point guard in the country and the associate head coach George Blaney added another dimension to Walker's game. Blaney said Walker, a Bronx native, arrived in college like most New York City guards: he ran as fast as he could, as far as he could, at a breakneck pace that disrupted fundamentals.
Last summer, Blaney overhauled the mechanics of Walker's jump shot. Walker took 500 to 1,000 attempts each day. By summer's end, Blaney said he could already see a difference.
''That,'' Blaney added, ''was the final piece.''
Having a reliable jumper made Walker more versatile, more dangerous. But while he has scored more points (931) this season than any player in UConn history, he was not named the Big East player of the year. In fact, his star rose most sharply once the run started, and even Gordon said: ''I didn't expect him to emerge as the star that he is now. I don't think anybody saw that coming.''
As it happened, as the interview requests and marriage proposals increased with Walker's legend, he became tired most of hearing his own voice and seeing his own face. No matter what channel he turned to, he saw himself. ''That's frustrating,'' he said Tuesday.
Walker has always showcased a similar duality. He loved to perform; as a young break dancer, he took the stage at The Apollo Theater in Harlem. The dance competitions were like N.C.A.A. tournaments: win and advance, lose and go home. In them, Walker honed his ability to please crowds.
Yet away from any kind of stage, Walker struck his teachers at nearby Rice High School as quiet, even reserved.
''A gentleman,'' Sister Joan Whittle said while sitting in the library this week. ''He was a sweetheart. He showed up to senior night after he graduated and stayed hidden until after the ceremony. He didn't want to take anything away.''
Two of his teachers, John Shea and Michael Pagidas, remembered how Walker sat in the front row, how he picked up economics, or debated the novel ''1984,'' with ease. They also remember his basketball exploits, with his rise at Rice almost exactly like the one he has had at UConn.
At Rice, Walker did not start as a freshman. By his junior year, he had emerged as a supreme athlete. Marcus Nicholson, now a senior, recalled a moment when Walker jumped on the right side of the lane and glided to the left side, as if he planned to float forever.
Dwayne Mitchell, Rice's basketball coach, formerly an assistant with Walker's teams, said: ''When it was his turn to take over, that's what he did. I knew it was going to come this year. I knew he'd have a run like this.''
Yet while Walker freely admits his life has changed in the last month, he also seems to have retained the personality he had at Rice. When asked if he had played against Maya Moore, the Connecticut women's star, Walker shook his head and said, ''She might beat me.''
Oriakhi took the class Violence and Human Rights with Walker this semester and said Walker always sat in the front row, always raised his hand. Calhoun said Thursday that Walker would go down as ''one of the most loved athletes'' at Connecticut. Oriakhi described Walker as the father of these Huskies.
''I didn't know he was that smart,'' Oriakhi said. ''It's kind of mind-boggling. I'll say to him: 'You just hit the game-winner, and now you're in class having that discussion. Who do you think you are? What are you trying to be?' ''
That is a good question. Because as Walker embarked on his postseason run, he also raised his stock for the N.B.A. draft. Okafor and Butler said Walker's explosiveness, his pure scoring ability, would translate well at the professional level. Okafor added, ''I see him having the same success, if not more, when he gets to the N.B.A.''
On Thursday in Houston, Walker sat for another news conference. There came another round of questions, one after another, and Walker continued to deflect credit toward Calhoun, toward the assistant coaches, toward his teammates, toward everyone but himself. That seemed easier than trying to explain the run, how it originated, how long it might continue.
For nine of the season's most important games, Walker is simply feeling it, the way no Connecticut player, including him, has ever felt it. But Gordon added one caveat: to attain the title of the best UConn run, Walker will need to add the perfect ending.
He will need a championship, same as Gordon.
''After that,'' Gordon said, ''there's nothing to compare it to.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''What he's doing is unprecedented,'' the Mavericks' Caron Butler said of Kemba Walker, above. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA HILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (92%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS MAVERICKS (83%); BUTLER UNIVERSITY (83%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (55%); SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); BUCKNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); DETROIT PISTONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



5 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: In Hunt for New Revenue, Options Are Limited

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Ross Ramsey, the managing editor of The Texas Tribune, writes a regular column for the Tribune.
It's not just that State Senator Robert L. Duncan doesn't like gambling. He doesn't think he could get legalized casinos out of his State Affairs Committee, or out of the full Senate. And why, the Republican of Lubbock asks, would you waste the Senate's time on something that might not win approval in the House?
Better to wait. 
In the meantime, the senator -- assigned with several colleagues to find some new sources of money that can't be called taxes -- says he'll take another week or so to get that job done.
The mission is to find $5 billion to $6 billion. The problem is that there aren't many recurring sources of money. Taxes keep on rolling. So do fees.
''There's not a lot of revenue that doesn't rise to the level of a tax increase,'' said State Representative Harvey Hilderbran, Republican of Kerrville, who heads the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee. He's skeptical the Senate can find that kind of money, but he'd welcome it.
Mr. Duncan and his crew are more likely to draw up a list heavy with one-time sources of money. The upside is that money available now, of whatever kind, can be used to help close the state's projected budget shortfall without cutting programs that lawmakers and their constituents want to protect: public schools, or nursing homes. The downside is in using one-time money for ongoing expenses.
Two years ago, lawmakers came to Austin to write a budget that had the same problems -- a ''structural deficit'' (the gap between what lawmakers promised to raise in a 2006 tax bill and what they agreed to spend on public schools at the same time), a shortfall, a recession -- that are featured in this year's edition. They were rescued by the federal government's contribution of billions in stimulus money, and used that one-time money for ongoing expenses.
Now, lawmakers are staring at a larger version of the 2009 problem. They don't have the money to pay for the things they've already promised to voters, and they have to break the promise of those programs, or break their promise of no new taxes, or find another way out.
The Easter Bunny isn't bringing federal stimulus dollars this year, so it's up to lawmakers to find a solution.
Mr. Duncan is not spilling any details, saying he doesn't want to constrain the brainstorming by flinging up early suggestions for the political skeet-shooters. Most of the ideas are known; what's not clear is how many dollars each thing is worth.
Speeding up tax collections, particularly on the state's main business tax, could bring in a couple of billion dollars every biennium. Declaring amnesty for overdue taxes would generate about $75 million, according to Representative John Otto, Republican of Dayton, who has been working on these ideas. Holding the state's monthly payment to school districts for one day -- pushing that expense out of this budget and into the next one -- is good for about $1.8 billion. In addition, $3 billion in accounts related to tobacco lawsuit settlements in the 1990s might be tapped.
A couple of tax-like options have been mentioned in other quarters. There's the high-cost natural gas tax exemption, originally a temporary break designed to spur production. Legislators later made it permanent, but ending the exemption would bring in well over $1 billion.
And there's that corporate margins tax. It was created in 2006, replacing the corporate franchise tax, and has produced less money than lawmakers hoped. Would ''fixing'' that constitute a new tax?
Some things work in reverse. Two years ago, lawmakers temporarily raised the exemption on that business tax so that companies with less than $1 million in revenue didn't have to pay it. The old floor was lower, and raising it to the current level freed an estimated 39,000 companies from the tax. If lawmakers do nothing, many of those taxpayers will be paying a combined total of $172 million they don't pay now, but they won't be happy.
Worst of all, it's all one-time money. The wonks who work for Comptroller Susan Combs have told lawmakers that the state starts each biennium with that $10 billion structural deficit. Add another $5 billion to $6 billion in one-time money from Mr. Duncan's effort that might get written into the next budget. Barring a windfall of some kind, they'd start two years from now with a $15 billion to $16 billion shortfall.
And the easy pickings, the one-time measures that come from accelerated tax collections and delayed payments? Those would be all used up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (74%); APPROVALS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); BUDGET FORECASTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LUBBOCK, TX, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



6 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23B

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Airport Art Is Not an Oxymoron, at Least Not at SFO

BYLINE: By CHLOE VELTMAN. 
cveltman@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Even in these hard economic times, the Bay Area overflows with vibrant art institutions, among them the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the Cartoon Art Museum, the Oakland Museum of California and the San Francisco International Airport. Yes, that last one is correct.
With an annual budget of more than $3 million and 27 full-time employees, about 20 gallery spaces housing six-month-long temporary exhibitions on a variety of esoteric subjects like Japanese pottery and platform shoes, an Aviation Museum dedicated to commercial air travel and a vibrant commissioning partnership with the San Francisco Arts Commission, SFO is home to a world-class art collection. 
Although not a museum in the traditional sense, the collection includes museum-quality works by top Bay Area artistic talents like Wayne Thiebaud, James Torlakson, Roy De Forest, Hassel Smith and Lee Mullican, all of whom can be found in the collection of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.
The holdings also include works by international art stars like Arnaldo Pomodoro and Seiji Kunishima.
Many airports display art -- the San Jose International Airport has a cutting-edge video installation on the sensitive theme of surveillance, for example -- but the San Francisco International Airport's exhibition program is the only one in the country to have received accreditation from the American Association of Museums.
Few airport galleries have the resources to undertake the process, which takes two to three years. But for SFO, which initially received accreditation in 1999, it was worthwhile.
''The accreditation is a valuable check to see that we continue maintaining the highest professional standards in both policy and practice,'' John Hill, curator of the Aviation Museum, said.
Now, with the opening of the remodeled Terminal 2 on April 14, the art experience at the San Francisco International Airport is becoming even more enticing.
In addition to reinstalling 20 works from the airport's permanent 60-piece art collection, the San Francisco Arts Commission is introducing five newly commissioned pieces.
Passengers in the airy, naturally lighted $388 million terminal will be able to propel iridescent-winged acrylic ''butterflies'' up wires using a mechanical hand crank in the local artist Charles Sowers's interactive kinetic sculpture ''Butterfly Wall.'' Visitors with long layovers can take a cellphone audio tour covering the terminal's complete art collection. Local musicians from the airport's ''You Are Hear'' music program like the alt-cellist Zoe Keating and the Nice Guy Trio, a jazz group, will perform live.
The integration of art into Terminal 2 is a bold move in an era of tightening budgets and aviation-industry woes. But airport officials say that culture improves the quality of service.
''Our investment in the arts provides an engaging and less stressful experience to our passengers and employees,'' said John L. Martin, director of the San Francisco International Airport.
The new works were financed through $3.7 million in ''art enrichment funds'' from a city ordinance that earmarks 2 percent of the total cost of civic public works projects for public art.
The airport's emphasis on art also points to the increasingly blurred line between traditional cultural institutions and other destinations for high-quality art.
''I think airport museums are gaining the stature of more traditional museums,'' said Ford W. Bell, president of the American Association of Museums, a service organization in Washington D.C. ''Every major museum realizes the importance of bringing art to the people, as well as the other way around.''
Artists are drawn to the vast, diverse audience that airports attract. According to Mr. Martin, nearly 39 million passengers passed through the San Francisco International Airport in 2010 and an estimated 10 percent actively engaged with the airport's art. The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art welcomes an average of about 700,000 visitors a year.
''I am excited about the chance to interact with so many people,'' said Janet Echelman, the creator of the newly commissioned artwork ''Every Beating Second,'' a trio of giant red and purple woven sculptures that hangs in the concourse, post-security.
But audiences can be uneven and unpredictable.
''It gets eerily quiet,'' said Chuck Prophet, a singer-songwriter who has performed at the airport. ''Then it heats back up out of nowhere.''
The design of Terminal 2, a close collaboration between the Gensler architecture firm, airport staff and the San Francisco Arts Commission, melds the utilitarian aspects of the space and its arts offerings.
Instead of hard, institutional seats, airport visitors can sit in cozy armchairs surrounded by a triptych of colored tapestries depicting Bay Area gardens by Mark Adams.
It may be awhile before people start viewing the San Francisco International Airport as a cultural destination. But things seem to be heading that way.
''Two of our performance areas are pre-security,'' said Marc Capelle, the curator of ''You Are Hear.'' ''So we get folks that come out and listen to music and dine at the airport.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Topograph,'' by Kendall Buster, hangs in the departure lobby of Terminal 2 at the San Francisco International Airport. The piece is a small part of the airport's nationally accredited art program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); AIRPORTS (93%); ART COLLECTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ACCREDITATION (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (84%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); QUALITY CONTROL (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (63%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (61%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



7 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Many Jobs Seen as Failing to Meet the Basics

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
Hard as it can be to land a job these days, getting one may not be nearly enough for basic economic security.
The Labor Department will release its monthly snapshot of the job market on Friday, and economists expect it to show that the nation's employers added about 190,000 jobs in March. With an unemployment rate that has been stubbornly stuck near 9 percent, those workers could be considered lucky.
But many of the jobs being added in retail, hospitality and home health care, to name a few categories, are unlikely to pay enough for workers to cover the cost of fundamentals like housing, utilities, food, health care, transportation and, in the case of working parents, child care.
A separate report being released Friday tries to go beyond traditional measurements like the poverty line and minimum wage to show what people need to earn to achieve a basic standard of living. 
The study, commissioned by Wider Opportunities for Women, a nonprofit group, builds on an analysis the group and some state and local partners have been conducting since 1995 on how much income it takes to meet basic needs without relying on public subsidies. The new study aims to set thresholds for economic stability rather than mere survival, and takes into account saving for retirement and emergencies.
''We wanted to recognize that there was a cumulative impact that would affect one's lifelong economic security,'' said Joan A. Kuriansky, executive director of Wider Opportunities, whose report is called ''The Basic Economic Security Tables for the United States.'' ''And we've all seen how often we have emergencies that we are unprepared for,'' she said, especially during the recession. Layoffs or other health crises ''can definitely begin to draw us into poverty.''
According to the report, a single worker needs an income of $30,012 a year -- or just above $14 an hour -- to cover basic expenses and save for retirement and emergencies. That is close to three times the 2010 national poverty level of $10,830 for a single person, and nearly twice the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour.
A single worker with two young children needs an annual income of $57,756, or just over $27 an hour, to attain economic stability, and a family with two working parents and two young children needs to earn $67,920 a year, or about $16 an hour per worker.
That compares with the national poverty level of $22,050 for a family of four. The most recent data from the Census Bureau found that 14.3 percent of Americans were living below the poverty line in 2009.
Wider Opportunities and its consulting partners saw a need for an index that would indicate how much families need to earn if, for example, they want to save for their children's college education or for a down payment on a home.
''It's an index that asks how can a family have a little grasp at the middle class,'' said Michael Sherraden, director of the Center for Social Development at Washington University in St. Louis, who consulted on the project and helped develop projections for how much income families need to devote to savings. ''If we're interested in families being able to be stable and not have their lives disrupted and have a little protection and backup and be able to educate their children, then this is the way we have to think.''
The numbers will not come as a surprise to working families who are struggling. Tara, a medical biller who declined to give her last name, said that she earns $15 an hour, while her husband, who works in building maintenance, makes $11.50 an hour. The couple, who live in Jamaica, Queens, have three sons, aged 9, 8 and 6.
''We tried to cut back on a lot of things,'' she said. But the couple has been unable to make ends meet on their wages, and visit the River Fund food pantry in Richmond Hill every Saturday. With no money for savings, ''I'm hoping that I will hit the lotto soon,'' she said.
To develop its income assessments, the report's authors examined government and other publicly available data to determine basic costs of living. For housing, which along with utilities is usually a family's largest expense, the authors came up with ''a decent standard of shelter which is accessible to those with limited income'' by averaging data from the Department of Housing and Urban Development that identified a monthly cost equivalent for rent at the fortieth percentile among all rents paid in each metropolitan area across the country.
They chose a ''low cost'' food plan from the nutritional guidelines of the Department of Agriculture, and calculated commuting costs ''assuming the ownership of a small sedan.'' For health care, they calculated expenses for workers both with and without employer-based benefits.
Ms. Kuriansky said that the income projections do not take into account frills like gifts or meals out. ''It's a very bare-bones budget,'' she said.
Obviously, the income needs change drastically depending on where a family lives. Ms. Kuriansky said the group was working on developing data for states and metropolitan areas.
The report compares its standards against national median incomes derived from the census, and finds that both single parents and workers who have only a high school diploma or only some college earn median wages that fall well below the amount needed to ensure economic security.
Workers who only finished high school have fared badly in the recession and the nascent recovery. According to an analysis of Labor Department data by Cliff Waldman, the economist at the Manufacturers Alliance, a trade group, the gap in unemployment rates more than doubled between those with just a high school diploma and those with at least a four-year college degree from the start of 2008 through February.
For some of the least educated, Mr. Waldman fears that even low wages are out of reach. ''Given the needs of a more cognitive and more versatile labor force,'' he said, ''I'm afraid that those that don't have the education are going to be part of a structural unemployment story.''
Even for those who do get jobs, it may be hard to live without public services, say nonprofit groups that assist low-income workers. ''Politicians are so worried about fraud and abuse,'' said Carol Goertzel, president of PathWays PA, a nonprofit that serves families in the Philadelphia region. ''But they are not seeing the picture of families who are working but simply not making enough money to support their families, and need public support.''
In New York, Aine Duggan, vice president for research, policy and education at the Food Bank for New York City, estimates that about a third of the group's clients are working but not earning enough to cover basic needs, much less saving for retirement or an emergency. She said that among households with children and annual incomes of less than $25,000, 83 percent of them would not be able to afford food within three months of losing the family income. That is up from 68 percent in 2008 at the height of the recession.
As the nation's employers add jobs, it is not yet clear how many of them are low wage jobs, especially those that do not come with benefits, like health care. Manufacturing, for example, has been relatively strong and tends to pay higher wages.
Over the last year, wages adjusted for inflation have been essentially flat. ''If we were creating more low-paid jobs,'' said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics, ''we would expect more of a decline in real wages.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A study on economic stability says many jobs today are unlikely to cover fundamentals like housing, utilities and food. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B1)
People rely on food banks, like the Community Food and Outreach Center in Orlando, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) CHARTS: It Takes More to Make Ends Meet: A study says that it takes more money than the federal poverty level guideline for a family to survive and meet its basic needs. (Sources: Wider Opportunities for Women
 Department of Health and Human Services) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PARENTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (87%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POVERTY RATES (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); CENSUS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WIDER OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



8 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Words for Savings: 'Simplify' and 'Coordinate'

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren is a columnist for the Chicago News Cooperative.
Cook County has more units of government (945) than the state of Illinois has licensed acupuncturists (700), licensed auctioneers (682), collection agencies (935), alarm contractors (708) or detective agencies (582).
It has more than the state has licensed geologists (919), landscape architects (91), locksmiths (484), orthotics specialists (199), accounting firms (695), audiologists (793) or surgical assistants (241). 
If you expand to the Chicago region, there are 380 units of government responsible for our transportation. To use all the area's mass transit, you would need a dozen fare cards -- which is dumb. Why not a single card, like the San Francisco Bay Area now boasts for most systems?
You get the point.
Even stipulating that the size or number of entities shouldn't be the primary measure of government value -- quality and efficiency are -- excess is an expensive national malady. And Illinois, with 8,567 governmental entities, is a prime example of hidebound duplication, political intransigence and agencies whose existence is rarely questioned.
So it's welcome and predictable given the lean times that the president of the Cook County Board, Toni Preckwinkle, and Mayor-elect Rahm Emanuel announced that they would study how to collaborate. Given the messes they inherit, see them as a pinstriped Army Corps of Engineers.
They can dissect what others have done, like Pittsburgh and Allegheny County, which merged multiple operations, realizing that the boundaries among the county's 130 municipalities, 109 police departments and 195 fire departments were anachronistic. They combined matters like electricity purchases and law enforcement fingerprinting into single operations.
''Rahm and Toni could have a lot of sway over local government,'' said David Orr, the Cook County clerk, ''so this is a great opportunity.'' One obvious target involves Mr. Orr, who could meld the county's and city's traditionally separate elections operations.
A former Chicago alderman, Mr. Orr concedes the political challenges of self-preservation. Officials will resist losing their jobs, and their ranks are plentiful. At least 25,000 people file a Statement of Economic Interests with the county, which means they're elected or have supervisory or contract authority.
If you started county government from scratch, you would not have most of the autonomous entities and separate taxing bodies, like the recorder, treasurer and clerk. There are too many townships, library boards and park boards in the burbs.
Nearly 60 percent of suburban elections in Cook County on Tuesday are uncontested. That may reflect democratic satisfaction with incumbents; it may also suggest that we have more positions than people have the capacity to care about.
We've seen hopeful acts of cooperation. Joliet, Berwyn, Aurora, Cicero and Elgin were among towns that streamlined decision-making and jointly applied for federal stimulus money during the foreclosure disaster. They didn't get the money, but they came away conceding the benefits of regional cohesion.
As Mr. Orr noted, there are too many unincorporated areas serviced by the county, a criminal justice system that spends too much time and money incarcerating people for petty drug offenses, and absurd overlap between county and township highway departments.
Challenges specific to Chicago are manifold, as I was reminded by a new, unpublicized study of the city's work force development programs by Chapin Hall, an independent policy research group at the University of Chicago.
The city runs 40 separate programs, most using federal money and largely involving the Chicago Housing Authority, Department of Family and Support Services, Chicago Public Schools, City Colleges of Chicago and Department of Community Development.
The programs focus on adult and youth education, job placement, vocational training and Web-based general career and jobs advice. Their multiple targets include housing-authority residents, teenagers at risk of dropping out, ex-offenders and workers who read below a ninth-grade level.
Forty programs? That must be too many. More important, how have we been assessing their effectiveness? The history of government-sponsored work force development is truly uninspired, as James Heckman, the University of Chicago economist and Nobel laureate, has chronicled.
The new city-county study on collaboration will include health care, notably efficiencies that could be achieved by having the county run the city's clinics. If the county took over, it would surely seek financial help from the city.
I was reminded of the challenges Monday night at a well-attended, languorous debate in the 46th Ward aldermanic runoff at Truman College. For starters, we really don't need 50 aldermen. Second, there was the issue of city-county health care collaboration.
Efficiency is fine, was the consensus -- as long as they don't mess with the city-run clinic in Uptown. Nobody wants to give up what they've got.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); WRITERS (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUDIOLOGY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); LIBRARIES (72%); FINGERPRINTING (72%); ORTHOPEDICS (71%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); MAYORS (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); ENGINEERING (68%); SUBURBS (68%); POLICE FORCES (65%); LAYOFFS (64%); ARMIES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (54%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



9 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: The Mellon Doctrine

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
''Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate.'' That, according to Herbert Hoover, was the advice he received from Andrew Mellon, the Treasury secretary, as America plunged into depression. To be fair, there's some question about whether Mellon actually said that; all we have is Hoover's version, written many years later.
But one thing is clear: Mellon-style liquidationism is now the official doctrine of the G.O.P. 
Two weeks ago, Republican staff at the Congressional Joint Economic Committee released a report, ''Spend Less, Owe Less, Grow the Economy,'' that argued that slashing government spending and employment in the face of a deeply depressed economy would actually create jobs. In part, they invoked the aid of the confidence fairy; more on that in a minute. But the leading argument was pure Mellon.
Here's the report's explanation of how layoffs would create jobs: ''A smaller government work force increases the available supply of educated, skilled workers for private firms, thus lowering labor costs.'' Dropping the euphemisms, what this says is that by increasing unemployment, particularly of ''educated, skilled workers'' -- in case you're wondering, that mainly means schoolteachers -- we can drive down wages, which would encourage hiring.
There is, if you think about it, an immediate logical problem here: Republicans are saying that job destruction leads to lower wages, which leads to job creation. But won't this job creation lead to higher wages, which leads to job destruction, which leads to ...? I need some aspirin.
Beyond that, why would lower wages promote higher employment?
There's a fallacy of composition here: since workers at any individual company may be able to save their jobs by accepting a pay cut, you might think that we can increase overall employment by cutting everyone's wages. But pay cuts at, say, General Motors have helped save some workers' jobs by making G.M. more competitive with other companies whose wage costs haven't fallen. There's no comparable benefit when you cut everyone's wages at the same time.
In fact, across-the-board wage cuts would almost certainly reduce, not increase, employment. Why? Because while earnings would fall, debts would not, so a general fall in wages would worsen the debt problems that are, at this point, the principal obstacle to recovery.
In short, Mellonism is as wrong now as it was fourscore years ago.
Now, liquidationism isn't the only argument the G.O.P. report advances to support the claim that reducing employment actually creates jobs. It also invokes the confidence fairy; that is, it suggests that cuts in public spending will stimulate private spending by raising consumer and business confidence, leading to economic expansion.
Or maybe ''suggests'' isn't the right word; ''insinuates'' may be closer to the mark. For a funny thing has happened lately to the doctrine of ''expansionary austerity,'' the notion that cutting government spending, even in a slump, leads to faster economic growth.
A year ago, conservatives gleefully trumpeted statistical studies supposedly showing many successful examples of expansionary austerity. Since then, however, those studies have been more or less thoroughly debunked by careful researchers, notably at the International Monetary Fund.
To their credit, the staffers who wrote that G.O.P. report were clearly aware that the evidence no longer supports their position. To their discredit, their response was to make the same old arguments, while adding weasel words to cover themselves: instead of asserting outright that spending cuts are expansionary, the report says that confidence effects of austerity ''can boost G.D.P. growth.'' Can under what circumstances? Boost relative to what? It doesn't say.
Did I mention that in Britain, where the government that took power last May bought completely into the doctrine of expansionary austerity, the economy has stalled and business confidence has fallen to a two-year low? And even the government's new, more pessimistic projections are based on the assumption that highly indebted British households will take on even more debt in the years ahead.
But never mind the lessons of history, or events unfolding across the Atlantic: Republicans are now fully committed to the doctrine that we must destroy employment in order to save it.
And Democrats are offering little pushback. The White House, in particular, has effectively surrendered in the war of ideas; it no longer even tries to make the case against sharp spending cuts in the face of high unemployment.
So that's the state of policy debate in the world's greatest nation: one party has embraced 80-year-old economic fallacies, while the other has lost the will to fight. And American families will pay the price.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); LABOR FORCE (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (67%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



10 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: After an On-Time Passage of a Pared-Back Budget, Bracing for the Pain to Come

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN; Winnie Hu and Sharon Otterman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ALBANY -- After the State Legislature on Thursday adopted one of the leanest budgets in recent years, thousands of workers are facing the threat of layoffs, school systems across the state are preparing teacher cuts, and prison guards face losing their jobs as the state decides which prisons to close.
While Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and state lawmakers hailed the passing of an on-time spending plan for the first time in five years as a sign of Albany's behaving responsibly in tackling the state's financial woes, the consequences of a budget that makes deep cuts in education, health care and other areas will certainly prove severe. 
The job cuts would be the biggest single-year decrease in the state work force in at least 15 years, the last time the state's year-to-year spending decreased.
Now that lawmakers have passed a $132.5 billion budget, the pain predicted by many advocates may soon become real.
''It's a new day in Albany,'' the governor said in a video released Thursday. ''Government needs to recognize the new economic reality. Government needs to tighten its belt and cut the waste.''
The belt-tightening will not come without a price, according to officials around the state who were scrambling on Thursday to confront the fallout from the cuts. While the Legislature restored some of the education cuts Mr. Cuomo had proposed, many local officials said it was not enough.
''The state's cuts will be devastating,'' said Micah Lasher, the Bloomberg administration's chief lobbyist in Albany. The city has warned of up to 4,600 teacher layoffs and said they were more likely than ever given that the state had failed to restore anywhere near what the city had asked for in local aid.
The New York State School Boards Association had estimated that school districts not among the state's five largest cities might lay off about 5,000 teachers, based on the governor's initial proposal for a $1.5 billion cut.
Even though the Legislature restored about $230 million of that cut, it would probably not be ''enough to move the needle significantly in terms of layoffs in many districts,'' said David Albert, a spokesman for the school boards association.
Mr. Cuomo, for his part, has insisted that no layoffs are necessary because school districts can turn to reserves or unspent federal financing, among other things.
The budget also includes $450 million in savings from the state work force, which the Cuomo administration hopes to achieve through contract negotiations that are under way with public-employee unions. If that does not happen, Mr. Cuomo has said he would have to lay off up to 9,800 workers.
''Aside from all of this celebration that seems to be going on over having an on-time budget,'' said Stephen Madarasz, a spokesman for the Civil Service Employees Association, ''no one should lose sight of the fact that there is going to be a lot of pain for a lot of people and a lot of communities from all of the cuts.''
Mr. Cuomo has acknowledged the hurt that his budget would cause. (''You have to remember that every time you talk about a layoff, you're talking about a family,'' he said shortly before unveiling his budget.) But at the same time, his aides say that it is important not to ignore the wider picture.
''This is a transformational and historic budget that, while it does result in short-term shared sacrifice, includes critical long-term reforms that put our state on a path of fiscal stability and future growth,'' a spokesman for the governor, Josh Vlasto, said on Thursday.
That is of little consolation to officials who must deal with the short-term consequences.
New York City officials and the Cuomo administration have had a running battle over how to calculate state aid to the city. The city had asked the state to restore $200 million in school aid, of which it received about $53 million, with some additional money for special-education programs. But city officials said that the shortfall was greater because the state did not provide an extra $400 million in general aid and pension savings that the city had relied on in its budget.
City officials are now figuring out how to plug the gap, though they do not expect to release new layoff projections for weeks.
But the teachers' union, like Mr. Cuomo, continues to maintain that no layoffs are necessary. ''The city has a huge surplus -- it always has -- and I'm sure that it is growing as we speak,'' said Michael Mulgrew, the president of the United Federation of Teachers.
Besides New York City, other urban school districts as well as smaller, poorer districts, particularly those upstate, are also facing difficult choices because they are heavily dependent on state aid. Yonkers had proposed laying off 20 percent of the school district's work force, including more than 400 teachers and administrators, though an increase in state aid would probably mean fewer layoffs, officials said.
Even affluent suburban districts, which are less heavily dependent on state aid, said they were struggling to absorb the cuts even as they faced rising expenses for personnel and mandated services. Even so, several districts said they would be able to avoid layoffs and program cuts by tapping into reserves and raising additional local revenue through property tax increases.
''As our outside sources of revenue decrease, the challenge is to maintain the quality and breadth of programs that we offer and not to overly burden our taxpayers,'' said Henry L. Grishman, the superintendent of the Jericho district on Long Island.
Then, there is the issue of prisons. Under the budget deal struck between Mr. Cuomo and the Legislature, the governor will have the authority to close prisons in order to eliminate 3,700 prison beds, which would provide $72 million in savings.
The closings will be announced in the next several weeks. The governor agreed to balance the prison closings around the state and to consult the Legislature in deciding which facilities to close. The budget also included economic development grants for communities that would be affected by prison closings.
Mr. Cuomo, for his part, has tried to emphasize the positive. In a two-minute video message to New Yorkers he released Thursday -- a virtual victory lap of sorts -- Mr. Cuomo did not directly mention unresolved matters like state worker layoffs or prison closures.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dean G. Skelos, the Senate majority leader, on Thursday, when the State Legislature adopted one of the leanest budgets in years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo did not directly mention state worker layoffs or prison closings in a video he released Thursday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



11 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Happy Motoring: Traffic Deaths At 61-Year Low

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
It may not seem that way when some knucklehead speeds past you on the right, but driving is getting much, much safer: last year the United States recorded the fewest traffic deaths in more than 60 years, according to federal data released on Friday. 
An estimated 32,788 people were killed in traffic accidents in 2010, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. That represents a 25 percent decline since 2005, when there were 43,510 traffic fatalities, and the fewest deaths since 1949 -- when ''On The Town'' won the Academy Award for best score for a musical, a new magazine called Motor Trend named the Cadillac as its first car of the year, and when there were far fewer drivers on America's pre-Interstate roads.
''Last year's drop in traffic fatalities is welcome news, and it proves that we can make a difference,'' the transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, said in a statement. ''Still, too many of our friends and neighbors are killed in preventable roadway tragedies every day. We will continue doing everything possible to make cars safer, increase seat belt use, put a stop to drunk driving and distracted driving and encourage drivers to put safety first.''
The reason driving deaths have declined so steeply over the past five years is something of a mystery, but officials and experts point to a combination of factors. Old cars are being replaced by newer models with more safety features, including air bags and antilock brakes. Highways are built or refurbished with more attention to safety, with features like rumble strips and cable median barriers to separate cars from oncoming traffic. Seat belt use is believed to be up, and stricter car-seat laws have made the days when children bounced around in the back of station wagons a distant memory.
But other Western nations have seen even greater declines over the last decade, and the fatality rate is still higher in the United States than in many other countries.
Whatever the explanation, the decline in deaths was not merely caused by the drop in driving as the Great Recession wore on. Measured by deaths per miles traveled, which filters out the effect of less driving, the roadways were safer as well.
In 2005, there were 1.46 deaths for every 100 million miles traveled, and last year the rate dropped to 1.09. (In 1949, by comparison, the rate was 7.13.) And last year there were fewer deaths, even as there was more driving: traffic deaths dropped an estimated 3 percent in 2010 from 2009, but officials estimated that the number of miles traveled rose by 0.7 percent. The Northeast did see an increase in traffic deaths last year, but every other part of the country saw a decline.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Safer on the Roads: Traffic fatalities per year. (Source: National Highway Traffic Safey Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (88%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); TRENDS (77%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (74%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (73%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMOTIVE RESTRAINT REGULATIONS (66%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



12 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: For Hedge Fund Investors, Brazil Is the Country of Now

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
Ten years ago, Goldman Sachs proclaimed that Brazil was among the new economic powerhouses. Now it is the next frontier for hedge funds.
Looking to capitalize on the fast-growing region, global hedge fund managers have started to descend on Brazil. The industry's biggest players are wooing top talent, opening new offices and buying local firms - all part of a broader effort to expand their investment reach.
''Latin America suffered because it was always believed that 'Brazil is the man of the future and always will be,''' said Marko Dimitrijevic, founder of Everest Capital, a Florida-based emerging market hedge fund that oversees $2 billion. ''But it looks like the future is now.'' 
Late last year, JPMorgan Chase's Highbridge Capital purchased a majority stake in Gavea Investimentos, a top Brazilian hedge fund. Brevan Howard, one of Europe's largest hedge funds, recently set up shop in Sao Paulo. This week, the first Hedge Fund Brazil Forum, an industry conference held at the Copacabana Palace Hotel in Rio de Janeiro, drew hundreds of attendees, including representatives from premier shops like Paulson & Company and SAC Capital Advisors.
In all, hedge fund assets devoted to the region rose 75 percent, to $21.4 billion, in 2010, according to data from Hedge Fund Research.
The strategy follows a well-worn playbook for hedge funds. Just as firms moved into Hong Kong to gain entry to the lucrative Chinese market a decade back, they are using Brazil as a beachhead for the rest of Latin America. The Hedge Fund Association planted an official industry flag on Wednesday, establishing a regional chapter with a local outpost in Brazil.
The appeal is obvious. While many developed countries have sputtered amid weak economic growth, Brazil has continued to thrive, given its rich reserve of natural resources and growing middle class. Last year, the country's gross domestic product increased 7.5 percent - helping catapult Brazil ahead of Britain and France to become the fifth-largest economy in the world.
''In the past five years, about 34 million Brazilians entered the middle class,'' said Oscar Decotelli, a partner at Vision Brazil Investments, a $2 billion alternative investment firm based in Sao Paulo. ''This for a population of 200 million is significant. Brazil is not just a commodity story, but a very strong domestic story.''
Brazil may also benefit from a shifting emphasis in developing countries. Money has poured into China and the rest of region in recent years, prompting fears that the region is a bubble ready to burst. Asia, excluding Japan, accounts for half of hedge fund assets dedicated to emerging markets. By comparison, Latin America represents roughly 11 percent.
''People were a lot more bullish on Asian markets over the last two to three years because everything seemed to be going one way,'' said Anurag Bhardwaj, head of strategic consulting at Barclays Capital, which is set to publish a survey on investor sentiment in April. ''Investors are looking to other markets less correlated but with good fundamentals, and Brazil definitely falls into that category.''
Even so, the region faces headwinds. While Latin America has been relatively strong coming out of the global economic crisis, analysts are becoming increasingly concerned about inflation. The investment bank Goldman Sachs recently cut its growth forecasts for Brazil for 2011 and 2012.
Investors, too, are worried that the flood of new money piling into the market could eventually lead to diminished returns. Over the last five years, the MSCI Latin America index has gained an annualized 13 percent - the best performance of any emerging market region.
''What is the famous saying? If the taxi driver is talking about an investment, you know it's time to sell,'' said Mr. Decotelli of Vision Brazil.
But Mr. Decotelli says he thinks Brazil and the rest of the Latin America are still at the beginning of a growth story. The addition of large institutional players should help the market evolve, rather than hold it back.
''We're still an industry very much dominated by local investors,'' he said. ''It is very important we are open to the international community. We will have better liquidity and diversification of strategies.''
As they explore this new territory, hedge funds are looking to well-connected executives with strong local ties. As in Asia, firms are tapping prominent names to lead their efforts, giving them much-needed political and business contacts in the country.
When Highbridge purchased a majority stake in Gavea last year for $6 billion, the deal came with the firm's marquee founder, Arminio Fraga, the former president of the central bank of Brazil. Brevan Howard tapped Mario Mesquita, former deputy of the country's central bank, to run its new research operations in Brazil.
A local presence serves two purposes. First, it allows for quick, on-the-ground research. That's especially important as companies look increasingly beyond their borders for growth. In the first quarter of the year, deals aimed at Brazil amounted to $13.2 billion, a 370 percent increase over the comparable period in 2010, according to Thomson Reuters.
Second, hedge funds can better woo potential investors in the region, a newfound source of wealth. Last spring, Morgan Stanley opened a hedge fund office in Sao Paulo to service Latin American clients.
''Some people built too much too fast in Hong Kong, so as a general matter they are going to approach Brazil with more of a 'Hey, let's try this out' rather than 'Let's put 16 people on the ground right away,' '' said Daniel Hunter, a partner at the law firm Schulte Roth & Zabel. ''All I can tell you is that there is definitely a desire in parts of the hedge fund space to find out what's going on in Brazil and find out how to tap into it.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cars at the port in Rio de Janeiro. Last year, Brazil's gross domestic product rose 7.5 percent, which helped attract the interest of the hedge fund industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTONIO SCORZA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TRADE SHOWS (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); CHINA (92%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



13 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Outsourcers Are Criticized On Visa Use

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
Major outsourcing companies from India have been the biggest recipients of visas in recent years under a program intended to allow American companies to bring highly skilled foreign workers temporarily to the United States, an immigration scholar testified Thursday before a House of Representatives judiciary panel.
Loopholes in the visa program have made it easy for the outsourcers ''to bring in cheaper foreign workers, with ordinary skills, who directly substitute for, rather than complement, workers in America,'' the scholar, Ronil Hira, a professor at Rochester Institute of Technology who has studied the program, told the House Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Enforcement. 
Four of the five biggest users of the program from 2007 to 2009 were Indian outsourcing companies: Infosys, Wipro, Mahindra Satyam and Tata, Mr. Hira said. Microsoft was the only company with headquarters in the United States among the top five users, he said. Among them, the Indian companies sent 22,766 workers to the United States on temporary visas during the two deepest years of the recession.
The hearing marked a new round in a rancorous tug of war over the visas, known as H-1B visas. Granted to foreign workers with at least a bachelor's degree to work in the United States for up to three years, they have been used by computer companies to bring in technology experts.
American companies are requesting an increase in the annual national limit of 65,000 temporary visas, saying it is too low and inflexible to meet their needs for engineers and scientists during unpredictable variations in the economy. But numerous cases have come to light of American workers who were ousted from jobs and replaced by workers from Indian outsourcing companies, often at lower wages.
As a measure of the frustration among American technology businesses and workers, a representative from an engineers' association urged lawmakers to set aside the H-1B debate entirely and to focus instead on providing permanent residence visas, known as green cards, to foreign students graduating with advanced degrees in science and mathematics from American universities.
''We are asking this subcommittee to change the subject, from H-1B to green cards,'' said the representative, Bruce Morrison of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. He urged the legislators to change the law quickly to make green cards available to students who will get their degrees in June.
His plea was supported in a letter from the Semiconductor Industry Association, which represents many large technology employers. Thousands of foreign students who get advanced science degrees in the United States do not remain because permanent work visas are not available.
Donald Neufeld, a Citizenship and Immigration Services official, testified that auditors had found fraud in about 7 percent of visa petitions, down from 21 percent in 2008. But Mr. Hira said that because of low wage requirements in the program, employers were using it to legally hire foreign workers at significantly lower pay than Americans.
Brendan Kavanagh, who runs a small technology consulting company in Miami Lakes, Fla., said that he had experienced the competition directly, after his contract with a major pharmaceutical company in Illinois was abruptly terminated last September. He was replaced by three Wipro employees on temporary visas, he said in an interview.
Mr. Kavanagh, who attended the hearing to press his case with lawmakers, said that he had been hired by the company to overhaul a major software system, and that many of the workers he managed were Indians with H-1B visas. ''They absolutely misrepresented their skills,'' he said. ''They are working with very critical software, and they don't understand the nature of it -- these are patients' lives.''
He said the time he took to train the temporary workers had slowed the project and led to disputes with the company, which finally terminated his contract. He said he could not name the company because of a contractual confidentiality clause.
''Employers are using these visas to give away our knowledge,'' Mr. Kavanagh said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (92%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); OUTSOURCING (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (69%); CITIZENSHIP (50%)

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (90%); INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC (63%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

TICKER: INFY (NYSE) (90%); INFY (NSE) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (90%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



14 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: The Financial Reform Law

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Who Will Rescue Financial Reform?'' (editorial, March 28) accurately exposes the House Republican majority's ''death by a thousand cuts'' line of attack to eviscerate the Dodd-Frank financial reform law. 
While Republicans claim that their proposals to change Dodd-Frank encourage economic growth, if enacted, they would simply return us to the same reckless, self-destructive pre-financial crisis way of doing business that led to this mess in the first place.
One of the thousand cuts is a misguided Republican initiative that would reopen a dangerous statutory gap now closed by the law. Before Dodd-Frank, credit rating agencies had no legal liability under federal law if they omitted or misstated material facts in securities registration statements.
This legal ''get out of jail free card'' all but invited credit rating agencies to bestow ''AAA'' ratings on trillions of dollars of dubious debt despite deficient credit quality. And they did it with immunity. Investors viewed these ratings as authoritative statements when they were nothing more than well-informed ''opinions.''
Without holding the credit rating agencies to a standard of responsibility, as Dodd-Frank now does, the Republican proposal would put investors and the economy at risk again. Any Republican attempt to excuse credit rating agencies from accountability should be viewed with the deepest of skepticism.
GARY ACKERMAN Bayside, Queens, March 30, 2011
The writer, a New York Democrat, is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%)

PERSON: GARY L ACKERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



15 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: After Months of Growth, Signs of Weakness in the Manhattan Real Estate Market

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
After more than a year of slow but steady growth, the Manhattan real estate market saw declines in price and sales volume in the first three months of 2011, raising the question of whether the city may finally be following the rest of the nation into a double dip in housing prices.
Sales reports to be released on Friday by the city's largest brokerage firms varied in their conclusions, but each report showed some signs of weakness. Reports from Halstead Property and Brown Harris Stevens were the gloomiest, indicating that after six quarters of consistent growth, the average apartment price fell 5 percent, to $1.36 million, and that the number of sales this quarter, 1,769, was down 23 percent from the same time last year. 
Data provided by Streeteasy.com mirrored those trends, with average prices down slightly from last year and sales volume dropping by 21 percent. The Corcoran Group showed the number of sales up 6 percent from last year, but the average price down by 4 percent, and Prudential Douglas Elliman showed steady sales volume, but the median sales price at $782,071, down by 9.9 percent from 2010.
Despite these negative signs, brokers and market analysts said it was too soon to declare dark days ahead for Manhattan real estate.
''Some people may think we're seeing the beginning of a decline, but just as it was too early to call a recovery after one quarter of price increases, it's too early to call a prolonged pullback after only one weak quarter,'' said Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist for Halstead and Brown Harris Stevens. New York City's economy is doing too well for such pessimism, he said, adding that the finance sector added almost 11,000 jobs in the last year.
Hall F. Willkie, president of Brown Harris Stevens, said that while volume was down, the number of sales last year was inflated because of the federal tax credit for first-time homebuyers. ''There was a real scramble to beat the deadline,'' he said. ''So sales were really explosive last year, and I never would have predicted it, but last year turned out to be our strongest year in history.''
The market reports count deals that have closed in the previous quarter, but for the first time, Elliman's report includes a price index for sales that are in contract but have not yet closed, which shows a 7.1 percent increase from the same time last year, suggesting that next quarter's report will show an upswing in prices.
Pamela Liebman, chief executive of the Corcoran Group, said that Corcoran's signed contracts in March also showed an increase of 23 percent in average sales price, to $1.476 million this March from $1.195 million last year. ''That's a pretty big uptick,'' she said.
Ms. Liebman and other brokers also said that the luxury market was continuing to do very well. She said that Corcoran agents had closed nine deals worth more than $10 million so far this year, while there were only four such deals for the same time last year. ''That tells me there's a lot more confidence in the market,'' she said.
Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel and the author of Elliman's report, offered a reason why prices had come down and said that the mix of what had sold in 2011 suggested that prices were essentially flat. While higher-priced condos accounted for more of the properties sold last year, he said, the number of co-ops sold went up significantly this year, and because co-ops tend to be priced lower than condos, that trend pulled average and median prices down.
''Condo sales were down only because inventory is down, but co-ops showed a burst in activity,'' Mr. Miller said. ''If you put that all together with the fact that last year's bump was somewhat artificial, you see that the market today is weak, but essentially stable.''
Diane M. Ramirez, president of Halstead Property, also dismissed the notion of the market's taking a double dip. ''When you're comparing 2010 to 2011, you have to remember that we had a very unusual volume of business last year,'' she said, noting that in addition to the tax credit, there was enormous pent-up demand after a very tentative market in 2009. ''And now, we're kind of back into a healthy and normal cycle.''
She said that Halstead agents were already seeing signs of a typical spring bounce. ''Showings are up, open houses are busy and offers are coming in at all price points,'' she said.
But Dottie Herman, chief executive of Prudential Douglas Elliman, sounded a cautionary note. The continued difficulty that buyers face when trying to get a mortgage may still hamper the market, she said. ''For the market to be really healthy again,'' she said, ''you have to fix the financing piece, and that's still up in the air.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); SALES FIGURES (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TRENDS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (57%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



16 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Bag, Less Food for the Price

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Smaller Bags Hide a Surge in Food Costs'' (front page, March 29):
I understand the motivation of food producers in reducing the amount of product inside the packaging, but I resent their assumption that I won't notice. I do notice, and expect them to label packages accordingly. 
I look forward to the day when toilet paper is more accurately called toilet ribbon, tissue boxes specify that they are for single-nostril use, and a can of tuna, which once contained enough fish to make two sandwiches, will be labeled ''tuna garnish.''
ELIZABETH OGUSS Montclair, N.J., March 29, 2011
To the Editor:
I was not the first in my home to face the repercussions of shrinking food content in same-size packages. After feeding my cat what I thought was her usual 6.5-ounce can of food (half a can, twice a day), she began to protest. Nothing organized, of course, but she kept letting me know that she was hungry, although she had just been fed.
Eventually, I read the can and saw that it had dropped to 5.5 ounces. Not only was there no notification, but the instructions for feeding, one can a day, were still the same.
I wondered how many others who could not be heard -- babies, young children or the elderly -- have been given less when they expected and even needed more.
BARRY PEARL Elwood, N.Y., March 29, 2011
To the Editor:
Why not take the repackaging of food to hide increased costs in a different direction, and similar to stock splits to make purchases seemingly more affordable, apply this ''revaluation'' to some of the most pressing and controversial problems of the day?
For example, short of going metric (as in Europe), sell gas at the pump by the quart. The price would change to around $1. Imagine the water-cooler conversation on how the price of gas will reach $1.25 in the summer!
I think that if the collective minds of marketers and politicians work together, as the economy continues to stagnate, they can find palatable ways to express other unpleasant values: national debt, credit card interest rates, retirement age and executive bonuses.
DANIEL FARKAS Pleasantville, N.Y., March 29, 2011
To the Editor:
As a college student and the child of a frugal family, I am concerned about the price of my food. I shop around to find which stores are cheapest for which item, and whether or not it makes up for the cost of gas to go further. The change in quantity in food packaging, however, has not escaped me.
Whenever I enter a store, the first thing I look for is the ''price per unit'' tag, and if the product does not have one, I use the calculator on my cellphone to determine the true price.
Thus, I encourage people to ask for price-per-unit tags, or use their calculators.
STEPHEN EISING Grand Rapids, Mich., March 29, 2011
To the Editor:
Food package contents keep shrinking. The only thing shrinking faster is my dollar.
ROGER SUMMERS Arlington, Tex., March 29, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MR BINGO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); FOOD PACKAGING (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); CHILDREN (74%); STOCK SPLITS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (64%); CREDIT CARDS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%); EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



17 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE TIPSY DIARIES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: Sweet on Tiki, The Flower of Cocktails

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
There have been many changes in Adam Kolesar over the years, starting with his facial hair, to which he devotes an agitated, overzealous attention described less aptly as grooming than as absurdist art project. He has made geometric patterns with it. He has dyed it blue. In its current, uncolored form it crawls in five bands, separated by shaved skin, from his cheeks to a point just a few inches below his jaw line. It's a stylized but scraggly marvel.
He loves and listens regularly to music but arrived late at an appreciation of country, an evolution that has caused his wife, Susan, a corporate lawyer, even more dismay than his beard does. ''Had he told me when we met that he would become a fan,'' she said dryly and without any obvious sarcasm, ''we would not be married.''
But the most surprising transformation, or at least the one with the most thorough impact on their lives, concerns what and how he drinks. 
On their first date 11 years ago Mr. Kolesar had a solitary beer, then switched to iced tea, having exhausted his minimal interest in alcohol and surpassed his usual quota for the month. Today, at his behest, the living room of their apartment in the Carroll Gardens section of Brooklyn is dominated by one of the most eye-catching and elaborate home bars I have ever seen, a gleaming aluminum approximation of the rear end of an Airstream trailer, complete with glowing red taillights and mock license plate. It is outfitted with four stools; equipped with every kind of mixing and fizzing and grating and straining apparatus imaginable; festooned with kitschy swizzle sticks; and stocked with 50 different spirits.
That's just what fits. Elsewhere around the two-bedroom apartment are additional bottles of booze, bringing the total to more than 150, including at least 60 varieties of rum, which are essential for his particular passion: tiki drinks. He makes highly specialized, utterly obscure ones for the friends he frequently invites over. He goes on the hunt for classic tiki -- that's the pretend Polynesian genre epitomized by Trader Vic's and Singapore Slings -- around the country. In certain New York cocktail circles Mr. Kolesar is known as Tiki Adam and considered to be one of the great characters of the city's bar scene, not least because he didn't care at all about cocktails until shortly before his 40th birthday. He's 47 now.
As soon as I heard tell of him, I hunted him down, determined to use this column on occasion to introduce drinkers of eccentric note. We first met at the restaurant Prime Meats, also in Carroll Gardens, whose bar he visits at least twice a week, usually between 8 p.m., which is just after he has helped put his 4-year-old daughter to bed, and 11, when his wife, working on her laptop at home, calls it quits. It wasn't tough to spot him. In addition to the beard there are the tattoos. They cover his arms and include detailed likenesses of two of his five motorcycles.
Other people search in vain for a hobby to embrace. Mr. Kolesar has scads. He hunts (sober), fishes (less so) and plays bass guitar in amateur punk bands, one of which was called Johnny Bubonic & the Black Death. It's hard to see how he finds any time for work, but he has a profession, and it's as unusual as the rest of him.
''I'm a feeding therapist,'' he said, clearly anticipating and then enjoying my baffled expression. Feeding therapy, he explained, is an offshoot of speech therapy, and it's for young children, usually 2 to 4, who have trouble moving past soft, pureed foods or eating anything that isn't the same bland color. They need to be coached to branch out and sometimes even to chew. He has a private practice devoted to that.
In college at the University of South Carolina Mr. Kolesar majored in theater. But when you're contemplating a career as an actor, he said, ''there's an apprehension about having some measure of control over your destiny.'' He talks like that: in formal cadences and with elevated diction that seems to contradict the biker-dude aesthetics. He's one surprise atop another.
He did graduate work in speech pathology at South Carolina, postgraduate work in childhood development at Georgetown University and later made his way to New York, where he met his wife. She was, he said, ''a referral from a mutual friend,'' meaning a fix-up or blind date.
She was also pivotal to the birth of Tiki Adam. In her vision of courtship and married life, she and her beloved would frequently linger at a restaurant table over a slowly disappearing bottle of red. But Mr. Kolesar had seldom bothered with alcohol. Not drinking, he found, made him more of a curiosity than drinking. It suited him.
He recounted that first date this way: ''She's thinking, 'I have a lifetime ahead of me of ordering wine by the glass.' She's horrified. But I've got just enough game to keep her in play.''
That's one way of looking at their progression to a second date. Another is that she trusted her powers of eventual persuasion -- rightly, it turns out. In recognition of his affinity for ritualized, poorly understood traditions, her Christmas gift to him in 2002, shortly after their wedding, was a class on rum punches that Dale DeGroff, a noted cocktail historian, was teaching at the Marriott Marquis in Times Square. Mr. Kolesar went, learned how to make a proper zombie and a dignified pina colada, and was hooked. Not on the booze and not on the high, but on the chemistry, cosmetics and back story of the cocktail culture that bloomed in the economically flush period between World War II and Vietnam. Tiki was a particularly fanciful flower.
''Drinking isn't about the drunk for me,'' he said. ''It's about creating the taste profile of an era I romanticize and care about.''
His wife put it another way. ''He's painfully geeky,'' she said. ''You are talking to a lawyer, and I'm pained by his geekiness, and that takes a lot.''
Bit by bit Mr. Kolesar delved deeper, researching tiki, rounding up recipes, collecting every implement and arcane tincture he might need to make them. He traveled to Tiki-Ti in Los Angeles and Mai-Kai in Fort Lauderdale because they are some of the high churches, and he had become a worshiper, well on his way to priesthood.
''It's pretty amazing, the knowledge he has,'' said Damon Boelte, the bar director at Prime Meats. ''He's definitely in the top five in the country.'' Mr. Kolesar has become a close friend to Mr. Boelte, and also to Brian Miller, one of the principal mixologists at Death & Company, in the East Village, which isn't a tiki bar but makes tiki drinks exacting enough to meet Mr. Kolesar's approval.
Along with Prime Meats, it's one of his five favorite places to drink in New York. Two others -- Lani Kai in SoHo and Painkiller on the Lower East Side -- are relatively new and reflect a tiki resurrection in recent years. A final one, Dram, in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, doesn't specialize in any one genre.
Mr. Kolesar appreciates most any finely made cocktail, especially if it harbors a rare ingredient, and he gets around, though not as much as he'd like. He's a family man after all. That's why the Airstream comes in handy. He can wallow in tiki while keeping an ear out for the kid.
''My wife cried when she first saw it,'' he said of the aluminum extravaganza, because she realized that her proper living room was no more. But life with Mr. Kolesar is like that: a series of trade-offs. You tolerate the beard. You take the tiki. In return you get the red-wine partner you always wanted. About once a week, over pizza or pork chops in a favorite neighborhood haunt, they linger over a bottle of Valpolicella, their daughter growing sleepy beside them.
Places for Rum Punches
DEATH & COMPANY 433 East Sixth Street, East Village; (212) 388-0882, deathandcompany.com.
DRAM 177 South Fourth Street, between Driggs Avenue and South Fifth Place, Williamsburg, Brooklyn; drambar.com.
LANI KAI 525 Broome Street, between Sullivan and Thompson Streets, SoHo; (646) 596-8778, lanikainy.com.
PAINKILLER 49 Essex Street, at Grand Street, Lower East Side; (212) 777-8454, painkillernyc.com.
PRIME MEATS 465 Court Street, at Luquer Street, Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn; (718) 254-0327, frankspm.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Adam Kolesar, a tiki-ologist who collects related recipes and arcane tinctures, is hooked on the cocktail's chemical and cultural history. (C27)
 Left, Adam Kolesar, known as Tiki Adam, at his custom-made home bar in Brooklyn. Above, a dignified Mai Tai. Below left, Mr. Kolesar's well-accoutered Tiki bar. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (87%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); BEER & ALE (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



18 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: The Haight Pays a Price for Sit/Lie News Coverage

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.; sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Scott James is a columnist for The Bay Citizen.
On a recent Wednesday evening there were unusual sightings on Haight Street: empty parking spaces, at least a dozen.
The sidewalks of the stretch of shops and nightlife between Ashbury and Cole Streets were also (sorry Jerry Garcia) ungratefully dead.
The number of visitors to the neighborhood has declined in recent months, according to a new survey. Some merchants report that business is down. 
Many say the slump is an effect of the city's sit/lie ordinance, the new law that was meant to improve the neighborhood's fortunes.
The antivagrancy measure, which passed with 53 percent of the vote in November, has yet to be enforced in a significant way. The police began issuing citations only last month.
But the Haight has already felt the impact. Many believe that months of relentless, negative news coverage that painted the neighborhood as a war zone where gangs of young street thugs preyed on innocent pedestrians was a public relations debacle.
''The publicity definitely hurt us,'' said Jimmy Siegel, owner of Distractions, a Victorian steampunk clothing and head shop, which has operated on Haight Street for 35 years. ''My business went down $100,000 last year.''
Mr. Siegel said longtime customers from Bay Area suburbs ''have been reading horrible things in the media'' and staying away out of fear.
The new ordinance, a device for thwarting vagrancy and street crime that bans sitting or lying on sidewalks, applies citywide. But the grass-roots effort for it began in the Haight, which made the neighborhood the primary focus of news coverage.
''We became the poster child,'' said Elisabeth Rix, a partner in several local businesses, including the Red Vic Movie House. ''I had phone calls from friends who asked if it was safe to come to the Haight.''
Ms. Rix agreed that there had been issues with intimidating teenage vagrants, but said, ''I don't think it's as bad as it's been portrayed at all.''
Ted Loewenberg, president of the Haight Ashbury Improvement Association and a main proponent of sit/lie, disagreed with the notion that news media coverage surrounding the ordinance had caused damage. Any declines in business, he said, ''were for other reasons,'' including the recession.
Mr. Loewenberg said he had no regrets for pushing sit/lie, believing instead that it will eventually make the street safer and more welcoming.
''No one thought it was a light switch and with a flick things would instantly change,'' he said. ''It's going to take time.''
But the depiction of the Haight as dangerous has taken hold, especially online.
On the social network Yelp, the majority of reviews (13 of 17) of Haight-Ashbury posted since March 2010 mention young street ''punks.'' In the preceding 12 months, only 1 of 14 reviews mentioned the issue.
On the Web site Virtual Tourist, a posting in January said a woman had been ''sexually assaulted'' on Haight Street ''by a young junkie, with several friends. He put his hand right up my skirt.'' When the group confronted the man, she wrote, ''in two seconds, there were like fifteen screaming junkies with dogs surrounding us.''
They are accounts unlikely to attract tourists. In fact, 25 percent of visitors surveyed in a yearlong 2010 study released last week by the San Francisco Travel Association cited homelessness/panhandling as the top complaint.
The study also showed that while tourism was up 3 percent citywide from 2009, the percentage of visitors that went to the Haight in 2010 dropped 19 percent from the first quarter to the fourth -- the same time period as the sit/lie news coverage.
Calvin Welch, a board member of Haight Ashbury Neighborhood Council, a neighborhood group, said it had been an ill-fated decision by sit/lie proponents to associate the measure so intimately with the Haight. ''It was commercial suicide,'' Mr. Welch said, adding, ''It was eerily out of whack with reality.''
Mr. Welch, who has been in the neighborhood for four decades, said the Haight was actually better off now, having emerged from desperate times of drug dealing and violence in the 1980s and early 1990s.
Many other longtime residents agree that over all the neighborhood is on an upswing.
Nearly 70 businesses have joined a new group to get that message out. The Haight Ashbury Merchants Association, formed in January, has vowed to stay clear of politics and instead promote the streets' attractions.
David McLean, a restaurateur and the group's board president, said the effort would counter the bad news coverage surrounding sit/lie. ''If I check all these news stories with my day-to-day reality,'' he said, ''they don't add up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some merchants along Haight Street say business is down, and many blame news coverage that painted the neighborhood as a war zone, leading to passage of San Francisco's sit/lie ordinance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORDINANCES (90%); RETAILERS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SUBURBS (71%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (70%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); SOCIAL MEDIA (61%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



19 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Missouri Halts Extension Of Pay for Unemployed

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Citing concerns about the national debt, a handful of conservative state legislators have blocked a vote to accept federal money to extend unemployment benefits, effectively cutting financial assistance for more than 10,000 out-of-work residents next week. 
The move, which came despite widespread bipartisan support for extending the benefits, puts Missouri at the center of a growing national discussion about reining in unemployment benefits at a time when both the job market and government coffers remain weakened.
In recent weeks, Republican leaders in Michigan, Arkansas and Florida have taken steps to limit their states' contributions by cutting the duration of unemployment benefits.
But for now Missouri, with an unemployment rate above 9 percent, is the only state that has stopped accepting dedicated federal money to extend payments to 99 weeks from 79. (A number of states never joined when the program was initially offered.)
''This is about sending a message to the federal government from the state of Missouri that enough is enough,'' said Jim Lembke, the state senator who, with three other Republicans, is filibustering the legislation. ''The federal government is sending us money they don't have.''
Mr. Lembke said he also plans to block a vote needed to accept nearly $190 million in federal education money.
The reauthorization legislation, which was supported by the leadership of both parties, passed by a wide majority in the House and had been expected to pass easily in the Senate, where a similar extension passed unanimously last year. Both chambers are controlled by Republicans. The legislation is supported by Gov. Jay Nixon, a Democrat.
But senators so far have decided against using a rarely invoked procedure to end debate. The chamber adjourned Thursday without voting on the matter, missing a deadline required for the payments to continue uninterrupted.
''This is the angriest I've ever been,'' said Jolie Justus, a Democratic senator who gave an emotional speech in favor of extending benefits. ''To tell these thousands of people that they have to get off their backsides and get a job is so out of touch with what's going on in Missouri right now.''
In addition to those whose payments will stop immediately, the Missouri Department of Labor estimated that another 24,000 people would be affected by the end of the year -- totaling $105 million in lost payments.
Senators were still discussing the possibility that a deal could be worked out, either through compromise or by forcing a vote.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: State Senator Jim Lembke is involved in a filibuster. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLEY MCCALL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%)

PERSON: JAY NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%) MISSOURI, USA (99%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



20 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'BENGAL TIGER AT THE BAGHDAD ZOO'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Ghostly Beast Burning Bright in Iraq

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
An exotic beast is stalking Broadway. No, I'm not referring specifically to the man-eating title character played by Robin Williams in ''Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo.'' I'm talking about the play itself: Rajiv Joseph's smart, savagely funny and visionary new work of American theater, whose presence on Broadway invites fanciful comparison to the titular beast. A Pulitzer Prize finalist last year, ''Bengal Tiger'' is like a majestic cat serenely striding through a litter of cute-as-can-be kittens ready for their YouTube close-ups.
''Bengal Tiger,'' which opened Thursday night at the Richard Rodgers Theater, asks us to think and feel like adults, absorbing the dark absurdities in Mr. Joseph's microcosmic vision of the chaos that reigned in Baghdad shortly after the invasion of Iraq. Its quiet urge to attend to the moral problems that beset our world -- not to mention the existential mysteries man has pondered for centuries -- stands in stark contrast to the more prevalent invitations blaring from Broadway marquees: to be serenaded by sweet nostalgia or to Facebook-friend our inner teenager. 
The production, directed with gorgeous finesse by Moises Kaufman (''I Am My Own Wife,''''33 Variations''), does make a standard concession to the celebrity-centric economy of today's theater by headlining a box-office name. (The rest of the terrific cast comes from Mr. Kaufman's Los Angeles production, which I saw last spring.) But Mr. Williams, the kinetic comic who has sometimes revealed a marshmallowy streak in movies, never indulges the audience's hunger for displays of humorous invention or pinpricks of poignancy. He gives a performance of focused intelligence and integrity, embodying the animal who becomes the play's questioning conscience with a savage bite that never loosens its grip.
And, oh yes, Mr. Williams is quite funny too. He is after all playing a tiger with a foul mouth and a disposition to match, who's been locked up in the Baghdad zoo for years and is growling as loudly as his stomach when the play opens. (Mr. Williams doesn't wear a Tigger costume, only a grizzled beard and unkempt hair suggest an animal.) I should emphasize that ''Bengal Tiger'' is not a civics lesson kind of play to be dutifully attended like a cultural homework assignment. Man and beast, and man turned beast, are depicted throughout with a fanciful humor that still allows for clear-eyed compassion.
The American invasion of 2003 has just taken place, and Baghdad is riven by conflict and confusion. Two soldiers guarding the tiger's cage -- the cocky Kev (Brad Fleischer) and the business-minded Tom (Glenn Davis) -- are killing time by swapping stories of their wartime experience. The tiger does some trash-talking himself, gloating over the stupidity of the lions, who fled their habitat only to be mowed down by artillery.
The juvenile Kev, played to dopey perfection by Mr. Fleischer, alternately gripes and makes absurd boasts about the prowess he is yet to prove. He seems to think that warfare is just a cool video game, and the other guys are hogging the Xbox. Tom, imbued with forceful gravity by Mr. Davis, was present when the American troops reached the palace of Uday and Qusay Hussein, Saddam's sons. His spoils from the looting that took place: a gold-plated toilet seat and a matching handgun that he's stashed in his knapsack.
This gleaming weapon, sowing mayhem as it moves from hand to hand, is a potent symbol of both corrupting greed and the brutality it can engender. A vulgar talisman of the rapacious Hussein regime, it also becomes a trophy sought after -- possibly even killed for -- by an American soldier intent on getting what he can out of the war. (Draw your own conclusions about the larger American imperatives in Iraq.)
The golden gun's first victim is the hapless tiger. As the awed and envious Kev marvels at this spectacular bit of bling, Tom makes the mistake of offering a snack to the beast in the cage, with results that leave him without a hand and the tiger with a gut full of lead. ''I get so stupid when I get hungry,'' the tiger groans in self-disgust.
And yet death proves oddly congenial to this grumpy beast, who spends his time in the afterlife haunting the soldier who caused his death while pondering the mysteries his ongoing consciousness presents.
''It's alarming, this life after death,'' he confides. ''The fact is, tigers are atheists. All of us. Unabashed. Heaven and hell? Those are just metaphorical constructs that represent 'hungry' and 'not hungry.' Which is to say, why am I still kicking around?'' Suddenly this creature of dumb instinct begins acquiring a moral sense and with it the burning desire to know how the afterlife can exist without God, and how God can ignore the unruly garden of corruption that his world has become.
Such questions are tendered by Mr. Williams's gruff tiger in an offhand, conversational tone that considerably lightens their weightiness. (The exception perhaps is a late speech decrying God's indifference in overly bald terms.) Similarly, Mr. Joseph's play to its credit does not aspire to make overarching and obvious statements about the morality of warfare. It is more deeply concerned with the facts on the ground, namely how the baser instincts of human beings inevitably come to the fore in an atmosphere tense with the threat of violence.
Kev's hair-trigger anxiety and psychological fragility exemplify one potentially disastrous outcome. The bitterness and deadened humanity that Tom exhibits when he returns to Iraq after acquiring an artificial hand is another. And the play's most movingly drawn character, the soldiers' translator, Musa (played with soulful intensity by Arian Moayed), becomes perhaps the most heart-rending victim of the viral contagion of violence that the play depicts.
He is haunted by the ghost of Uday Hussein (a vivid, hilariously malevolent Hrach Titizian), who had employed him as a gardener to tend the exotic zoo of topiary animals on the palace grounds. Musa's journey from friendly helper fascinated by the arcana of American lingo (a very funny scene dissects the meanings of the word ''bitch'') to disturbed opportunist represents the most painful illustration of how the appetite for destruction that man shares with predatory beasts is unloosed when the structures of civilization suddenly fall away.
The mosaic of escalating violence depicted in the play takes place against a background of almost breathtaking beauty, in the elegant sets designed by Derek McLane, among his most poetic and effective work. The equally fine lighting design of David Lander blends velvety shadows with rich colors evoking the ravaged beauty of a once-great city.
It is an atmosphere inhabited by the play's end almost entirely by ghosts. The ricocheting violence unleashed by the legacy of the Hussein regime and the American invasion that sought to end it has claimed victims both malign and innocent.
And yet ''Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo,'' for all the killing and suffering it contains, is buoyed by the vitality of its imaginative scope. Violence is not after all the only human activity that can have far-reaching, unforeseen effects, shaping lives far into the future. Mr. Joseph's richly conceived play reminds us that art can have a powerful afterlife too.
BENGAL TIGER AT THE BAGHDAD ZOO
By Rajiv Joseph; directed by Moises Kaufman; sets by Derek McLane; costumes by David Zinn; lighting by David Lander; sound by Acme Sound Partners and Cricket S. Meyers; music by Kathryn Bostic; production stage manager, Beverly Jenkins; technical supervisor, Brian Lynch; general manager, Richards/Climan Inc. Presented by Robyn Goodman, Kevin McCollum, Jeffrey Seller, Sander Jacobs, Ruth Hendell/Burnt Umber, Scott & Brian Zeilinger, Center Theater Group and Stephen Kocis/Walt Grossman. At the Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, Manhattan; (877) 250 2929; ticketmaster.com. Running time: two hours.
WITH: Robin Williams (Tiger) , Glenn Davis (Tom), Brad Fleischer (Kev), Hrach Titizian (Iraqi Man/Uday), Sheila Vand (Iraqi Teenager/Hadia), Necar Zadegan (Iraqi Woman/Leper/Arabic Vocals), and Arian Moayed (Musa).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo, with Robin Williams, near right, and Glenn Davis, in the drama by Rajiv Joseph at the Richard Rodgers Theater. (C1)
 Robin Williams, in ''Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo,'' as a foul-mouthed tiger with a conscience. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATS (90%); WILD CATS (89%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); FILM (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); THEATER (58%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (56%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo (Play)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



21 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Ohio's Anti-Union Law Is Tougher Than Wisconsin's

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
After Wisconsin's labor battle seized the nation's attention, after nearly 100,000 people rallied in Madison to protest a bill to curb public-sector collective bargaining, the Ohio legislature has, with far less fanfare, enacted a bill perhaps even tougher on unions.
It is perhaps surprising that Ohio faced more limited public demonstrations considering that its bill, which Gov. John R. Kasich signed Thursday, goes further than Wisconsin's in several important ways. 
While both laws severely limit public employees' ability to bargain collectively -- they both prohibit any bargaining over health coverage and pensions -- the Ohio law largely eliminates bargaining for the police and firefighters. Wisconsin's law leaves those two groups' bargaining rights untouched. Ohio's law also gives city councils and school boards a free hand to unilaterally impose their side's final contract offer when management and union fail to reach a settlement.
Notwithstanding the differences in legislation, the push by those states' Republican governors and Republican-dominated legislatures points to a pendulum swing away from what many unions and Democrats see as a fundamental right for public employees: the right to bargain over wages and benefits.
Moreover, at a time of huge budget deficits and of Republican dominance in many states, including states like Ohio and Wisconsin where unions once had swaggering power, the pendulum has swung toward the taxpayer instead of the government workers paid by the taxpayer. And after five decades in which public-sector unions have grown far stronger in membership and political power, Mr. Kasich and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin seem intent on checking their rise.
State Senator Shannon Jones, a Republican and chief sponsor of the Ohio law, said curbing collective bargaining made sense when so many states, cities, counties and school districts faced daunting budget deficits. She said the law would help public employers hold down compensation costs, especially soaring health and pension costs, as a way to minimize any layoffs and reductions in public services, whether police patrols or garbage collections.
''The economy has changed fundamentally,'' Ms. Jones said. ''Not only families and business have to change to adapt to tougher economic circumstances, but governments have to adapt, too.''
Many Democrats and labor leaders said the law was an effort to balance state and local budgets on the backs of Ohio's 360,000 public employees. They argue that the driving force behind the law was ideological and political. ''It's a politically motivated effort to weaken and destroy the unions that the leaders of the Republican Party perceive as their biggest political opponents,'' said William Leibensperger, vice president of the Ohio Education Association, which represents 130,000 teachers and other school employees.
William Even, an economics professor at Miami University of Ohio, said the law resulted from another difference between the parties. ''There's a definite philosophical disagreement between the Republicans and Democrats about what unions do to the efficiency of government operations and whether unions have led to overcompensation for public workers.''
When the Ohio Senate approved the bill Wednesday night, 17 to 16, all 17 supporters were Republicans, and when the Ohio House passed it earlier Wednesday, 53 to 44, all of the supporters were Republicans.
In Ohio, as in Wisconsin, mayors, school superintendents and county executives are already thinking through how to use the legislation to hold down public employees' raises and health costs. At the same time, in Ohio, as in Wisconsin, Democrats and union members are maneuvering to overturn the legislation.
In Ohio, union leaders plan to dispatch rank-and-file members around the state to collect signatures to trigger a referendum. And in Wisconsin -- in addition to a lawsuit that has resulted in a court order temporarily suspending the anti-union law for violating the open meetings act -- unions have collected tens of thousands of signatures to hold recall elections aimed at ousting a half-dozen Republican state senators, as a first step to repeal the law.
Ohio political and union leaders say there were fewer protests than in Wisconsin because Governor Walker moved first, making him and Madison a lighting rod. Moreover, Madison has a famously liberal university and Wisconsin was the home of the progressive movement. Still, Ohio unions boast that their biggest rally in Columbus attracted 20,000, just a fraction of Madison's weekly Saturday rallies.
The Wisconsin law is in ways tougher toward unions -- it bars any public employer from deducting workers' dues from their paychecks and forwarding it to union treasuries. It is also requires a vote each year to determine whether government workers want to keep their union.
Both states would let government employees opt out of paying any union dues or fees.
The Wisconsin law generally limits raises to the Consumer Price Index, although under the Ohio legislation if a public employer accepts the union's contract offer and if that forces a community to raise taxes to pay for it, then voters can overturn the contract through a referendum.
''It's pretty much evisceration of collective bargaining in both states,'' said James Brudney, an Ohio State law professor.
Louis W. Blessing, a Republican House member who represents Cincinnati, said his party had pushed for the law at the behest of taxpayers who feel public unions have become too powerful, their pensions too generous. ''We're trying to level the playing field between the two parties, between the taxpayer and the unions,'' he said. But Mr. Blessing acknowledged that political motivations also came into play. ''It's clear the unions support the Democrats,'' he said. ''I'm sure that made it easier to pass.''
Governor Kasich has repeatedly said the law would give communities the tools they need to hold down labor costs to help reduce layoffs. For instance, Ohio's office of collective bargaining estimates that replacing statutory step pay increases with merit pay will save the state $75 million a year and local governments $393 million a year.
Armond Budish, the Ohio House Democratic leader, said, ''This bill is an effort to camouflage the pain that the governor's huge budget cuts are going to cause.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. John R. Kasich signed Ohio's collective bargaining bill into law on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT HECKEL/THE REPOSITORY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); BUDGETS (87%); LEGISLATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); POLITICS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); SCHOOL BOARDS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); CITIES (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN KASICH (77%); SCOTT WALKER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



22 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam Persecutes Christian Minority, Report Says

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

 BODY:
BANGKOK -- Vietnam has increased repression of indigenous minority Christians in the country's Central Highlands, closing small informal churches, compelling public renunciations of faith and arresting worshipers, Human Rights Watch said in a report on Thursday.
The hill tribe minorities, known as Montagnards, are traditionally animist but have been converted to Christianity in large numbers over the past half-century. Culturally and ethnically distinct from the majority lowland Vietnamese, the believers worship clandestinely in informal settings known as house churches, which are illegal under Vietnamese law.
''Montagnards face harsh persecution in Vietnam, particularly those who worship in independent house churches, because the authorities don't tolerate religious activity outside their sight or control,'' said Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director of the human rights monitoring group, which is based in New York. ''The Vietnamese government has been steadily tightening the screws on independent Montagnard religious groups, claiming they are using religion to incite unrest.'' 
The conflicts involve more than religion as Vietnam's population and economy expand and lowland Vietnamese settlers encroach on the farmland of indigenous hill tribes, primarily with agricultural plantations.
There is a political aspect as well, involving government concerns over links with evangelical groups in the United States among some of the Montagnards. Many Montagnards fought alongside American and South Vietnamese troops during the Vietnam War, and some continued to resist after the Communist victory in 1975.
For the most part, Montagnard Christians today are nonpolitical, but the government is particularly concerned about a branch known as Dega Christianity, which is associated with a movement for land rights.
The United States designated Vietnam as a ''country of particular concern'' for religious freedom in 2004 but removed it from the list two years later, saying it was satisfied with the government's moves to loosen restrictions.
Officially atheist, Communist Vietnam started allowing religious practice in the early 1990s. Mostly Buddhist by tradition, it also has a Roman Catholic population that is the largest in Southeast Asia outside the Philippines. Buddhist temples are packed during festivals, and churches sometimes overflow with worshipers on Sundays and at Easter and Christmas.
But under Vietnamese law, religious groups must register with the government and operate under approved guidelines. When the government gave official sanction to some evangelical Protestant churches a decade ago, almost none of the 400 churches in the Central Highlands were included.
Independent unregistered groups often come under harsh government pressure. They include unapproved or independent congregations of Mennonites, Cao Dai, Hoa Hao Buddhists, ethnic Khmer Theravada Buddhists and members of the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam, as well as the Montagnard Christians.
The police and local officials disperse their religious gatherings, confiscate religious literature and summon religious leaders to police stations for interrogation. In some instances, police officers destroy the churches of unauthorized groups and detain or imprison their members on charges of violating national security.
''The United States government should recognize this and should clearly designate Vietnam as a country of particular concern for violations of religious freedom,'' Mr. Robertson said. ''I think the facts demand it. The situation with the Montagnards is one of the most egregious violations of religious freedom in Vietnam.''
The Central Highlands are mostly off limits to journalists and independent rights groups. The report said much of its information came from the official news media as well as from asylum seekers who had fled through the mountains to neighboring Cambodia and from overseas Montagnard advocacy groups.
The Vietnamese news media are remarkably forthright about the pressure on the Montagnards, Mr. Robertson said.
The Human Rights Watch report quoted one Vietnamese press report, in Bao Gia Lai, a state newspaper in Gia Lai Province, as saying: ''After attempting to organize violent protests at various locations in the highlands and facing continued failure, some helpless leaders fled into the forest. But the sacred wood and untamed water could not protect them.''
It quoted Voice of Vietnam radio as saying, ''When a so-called religion becomes a tool in the hands of evil people, it should be considered evil and unlawful and should be eliminated.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (98%); RELIGION (97%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) VIET NAM (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



23 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Notre Dame Professor Leads Effort to Keep Asian Carp Out of Great Lakes

BYLINE: By KARI LYDERSEN. 
klydersen@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
When the United States Fish and Wildlife Service decided in March to ban the import and transport of bighead carp -- one of the infamous Asian carp -- under a century-old law called the Lacey Act, David Lodge had one reaction. ''It's about time,'' he said.
It figures that Mr. Lodge, 54, a professor of biological sciences at the University of Notre Dame, would have a decided opinion. He has spent much of his career predicting which foreign species could harm the Great Lakes. And in the decades since Asian carp escaped Southern fish farms and began marauding up the Mississippi River, Mr. Lodge, a nationally known expert on invasive species, has become nearly as famous in some circles as the voracious fish.
He has also been an advocate of using the Lacey Act to block Asian carp and other invasive species. Though the act is the sole federal defense against the importing of potentially devastating plants and animals, it covers only 20 groups of organisms. As with the carp, most were added to the list long after they became environmental hazards. 
Mr. Lodge's findings of ''environmental DNA,'' or eDNA, from Asian carp in and near Lake Michigan in 2009 and 2010 led to a legal battle involving the Supreme Court, federal legislation, calls to close Chicago-area waterways or reverse their flow, a dispute with the Army Corps of Engineers, and even the appointment of a White House ''Asian carp czar.''
Industry groups that depend on rivers and canals in the Chicago area to transport chemicals, coal, cement and other commodities have sharply criticized Mr. Lodge and his science. They argue that he has begun approaching the carp issue as an advocate, not as a dispassionate scientist, and they vigorously dispute his recommendation that policy makers should consider ecologically separating the Mississippi River system from the Great Lakes.
Mr. Lodge sees Asian carp as just the latest example of ''biological pollution'' -- invasive species that the public belatedly has recognized as the source of substantial harm to local environments, economies and public health.
''It's hard to put the genie back in the bottle,'' said Mr. Lodge, who heads the University of Notre Dame's Environmental Change Initiative. ''It's not like other forms of pollution, where we can stop pouring carbon dioxide into the environment or stop discharging raw sewage, and things will get better. Once you've put a bunch of carp in an environment and they start reproducing, you can stop putting them in but they will still keep spreading.''
As a boy growing up in Alabama and Georgia, Mr. Lodge said, he loved ''catching things in lakes and streams.'' He probably transported his share of invasive species into the backyard pond he built as a teenager, he said.
After studying as a Rhodes scholar at Oxford University, he immersed himself in the world of invasives in his first academic job, at the University of Wisconsin, conducting research into an invasion of crayfish from the Ohio River basin into the lakes of northern Wisconsin.
The first time he fished at Trout Lake in Wisconsin in 1982, Mr. Lodge said, ''the bottom was covered with vegetation -- like an underwater forest, with snails of every sort. Three years later, after an invasion of rusty crayfish had marched through, I couldn't find a snail, and the underwater forests had been clear-cut.''
Mr. Lodge emerged as an authority on invasive species as the issue gained attention in the 1990s. He served as the first chairman of the White House Invasive Species Advisory Council under President Bill Clinton and has advised state and municipal governments. Locally, Mr. Lodge helped the Chicago Department of Environment decide which species to ban for import in the aquarium and pet trades.
''The extent he's gotten involved in policy is very unusual,'' said Reuben Keller, a former student of Mr. Lodge and now a lecturer at the University of Chicago. ''Generally in academia you get points for publishing papers, and you get the most points for deep theoretical papers. Policy makers have a completely different view of the world and different priorities.''
The forays into policy are not always easy. In 2008, the Army Corps of Engineers hired Mr. Lodge to use his eDNA test to look for Asian carp in Chicago waterways. Mr. Lodge said his research found eDNA -- microscopic traces of genetic material -- that indicated live Asian carp had swum past the corps' $10 million electric barrier. Currently, the Army Corps' electric barrier in the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal, about 25 miles from Lake Michigan, is the only thing blocking Asian carp from the lake.
Critics say the eDNA could have gotten there by other means, including through people's releasing Asian carp or bits of flesh carried by barges. The corps does not accept Mr. Lodge's conclusion that the barrier has failed to stop the carp.
Mr. Lodge's research led to a complex legal tussle. Based on the eDNA tests, the State of Michigan sued Illinois last year in the United States Supreme Court, demanding that locks in the Chicago area be closed as an emergency measure.
After the Supreme Court declined to hear Michigan's case, the state sued the corps in federal court in Chicago. During hearings last September, the corps' lawyer claimed Mr. Lodge's findings did not prove that carp had passed the electric barrier.
Mr. Lodge countered that his findings had been endorsed by the Environmental Protection Agency. Later, his research was published in a peer-reviewed journal.
David Rieser, a Chicago lawyer for a coalition of industries that rely on local waterways, says Mr. Lodge's opinions have undue influence on his scientific findings, and he sought to have Mr. Lodge's testimony thrown out during Michigan's lawsuit against the corps.
''It's clear the position he's pushing in terms of the ultimate policy issue has an impact on how he talks about the information,'' Mr. Rieser said.
Mr. Lodge disagrees. ''It's frustrating to be misrepresented and misunderstood,'' he said. ''What I'm an advocate for is good science and the use of good science.''
Marshall Meyers, a Washington lawyer who represents zoos and the pet and aquarium industries, met Mr. Lodge a decade ago while they served on the federal Invasive Species Advisory Council. Then, Mr. Meyers said, ''he was very much the pure scientist, and he had a certain amount of disdain for industry.''
That is less the case today, Mr. Meyers said. ''Some in the science community can be very rigid,'' he said. ''I find David to be open-minded, a good communicator, willing to talk and interact with people from all arenas.''
Mr. Lodge is now taking a lead role in measuring the impact of releasing ballast water from commercial ships -- an issue he said is as important as Asian carp.
Most invasive species that enter the Great Lakes do so through ballast water, taken on by ships for stability. When the ships discharge ballast, any organisms are released with it.
Last month, the E.P.A. announced its first mandatory limits on the amount of organisms that shippers can discharge in ballast. Mr. Lodge is helping to draft the regulations.
''The Great Lakes are connected by only a few degrees of separation from every other port on the planet,'' Mr. Lodge said. ''So there's a risk of invasion by species from everywhere.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Lodge, an expert on invasive species like the Asian carp, conducting eDNA research in his laboratory at the University of Notre Dame. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT CASHORE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); FISHES (90%); LAKES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); RIVERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); AQUACULTURE (78%); ANIMALS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); FINFISH FARMING (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); ARMIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (91%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (83%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%) GREAT LAKES (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



24 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: China Lays Out a Vision for Its Military in 'Volatile' Times

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG and JONATHAN ANSFIELD

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The Chinese military said Thursday that while the security situation in Asia and the Pacific was generally stable, it was becoming ''more intricate and volatile,'' with no clear solutions for tension points like the divided Korean Peninsula and with the United States increasing its involvement in regional issues.
The military's vision was laid out in a national defense white paper, a document published every two years since 1998. The paper tried to walk a line between trumpeting the modernization efforts of the Chinese military and assuaging the fears of foreign governments and analysts that the fast-growing People's Liberation Army would be used for expansionist purposes or regional dominance. 
It stressed that China's military buildup was purely defensive, a position Chinese leaders have long taken. The paper had more detail than previous editions on China's efforts to establish confidence-building measures with foreign militaries. In the past year, perceptions by foreign countries of China's military growth and of a more assertive foreign policy have resulted in diplomatic discord and discomfort, particularly between China and the United States.
''China attaches importance to its military relationship with the United States and has made ongoing efforts towards building a sound military relationship,'' Senior Col. Geng Yansheng said at a news conference on Thursday. ''The Chinese military is now taking steps to advance exchanges with the U.S. military this year.''
But ''there's no denying that in developing military relations, we still face difficulties and challenges,'' Colonel Geng added.
The white paper observed that in the Asia-Pacific region, ''relevant major powers are increasing their strategic investment.''
''The United States is reinforcing its regional military alliances, and increasing its involvement in regional security affairs,'' it added.
Colonel Geng said that the army's chief of general staff, Gen. Chen Bingde, would visit the United States in May. Robert M. Gates, the United States defense secretary, flew to Beijing in January to smooth over military-to-military relations that had been frozen after the Obama administration announced arms sales to Taiwan in January 2010. In June, Mr. Gates got into a prickly dispute with Gen. Ma Xiaotian at a security meeting in Singapore, an episode that revealed the deep fissures in the military relationship.
Mr. Gates had to navigate yet another tricky diplomatic situation here when the Chinese military tested a J-20 stealth fighter jet in Sichuan Province while he met in the Chinese capital with President Hu Jintao.
In December, Adm. Robert F. Willard, the commander of United States Pacific Command, told a Japanese newspaper that China had a working design for an antiship ballistic missile that could strike aircraft carriers and could soon be ready for deployment. The missile, known as a ''carrier killer,'' has become a symbol in Western military circles of the Chinese Army's technological advances.
The weapon ''is not science fiction,'' Andrew S. Erickson, a professor at the United States Naval War College, said in an e-mail interview this year. ''It is not a 'smoke and mirrors' bluff,'' he wrote. ''It is not an aspirational capability that the U.S. can ignore until some point in the future.''
Of equal or greater import is China's plan to soon deploy an aircraft carrier known to be under construction. But the white paper, while ostensibly aimed at making China's military development more transparent, did not discuss the carrier project. Colonel Geng dodged a question about it at the news conference.
The paper noted that China still faced challenges from ''separatists.''
''Pressure builds up in preserving China's territorial integrity and maritime rights and interests,'' it said. ''Nontraditional security concerns, such as existing terrorism threats, energy, resources, finance, information and natural disasters, are on the rise. Suspicion about China, interference and countering moves against China from the outside are on the increase.''
China has announced that the military budget for 2011 is about $92 billion, up 12.7 percent from 2010. The previous announced annual increase was 7.5 percent, the first time in years that the reported growth had dipped below double digits.
''China pursues a national defense policy which is defensive in nature,'' the white paper said. ''China will never seek hegemony, nor will it adopt the approach of military expansion now or in the future, no matter how its economy develops.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (79%); HU JINTAO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



25 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Says Strict Policy On Currency Hurts China

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
NANJING, China -- Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner urged China again on Thursday to adopt a more flexible exchange rate policy, saying failing to do so could worsen inflation in China and impede growth in other parts of the world.
In a speech here, Mr. Geithner never mentioned China's currency, the renminbi. But he made clear that Beijing's strict control over the value of its currency was at odds with flexible exchange rates in other major economies. He said the issue had become ''the most important problem to solve in the international monetary system today.'' 
''It does not require a new treaty, or a new institution,'' he said. ''It can be achieved by national actions to follow through on the work we have already begun in the G-20 to promote more balanced growth and address excessive imbalances.''
Mr. Geithner's remarks were delivered during a one-day seminar on the international monetary system organized by President Nicholas Sarkozy of France, who is serving this year as head of the Group of 20 industrial and developed nations. The conference was hosted in Nanjing by a group of Chinese academics.
President Sarkozy has promised to use France's leadership of the G-20 to press for greater reform of the international monetary system.
The reforms he has begun to outline are largely aimed at addressing some of the most serious threats to global growth, including large trade imbalances, wildly fluctuating currency values and cross-border capital flows.
But those efforts will probably be hampered by fierce disagreement about how to proceed with reform and how to mediate continuing economic tensions between the United States and China.
While the United States wants China to overhaul its exchange rate policies and allow the renminbi to appreciate and move in line with market forces, China complains that the United States is damaging its interests by adopting loose fiscal and monetary policies.
The United States government, the Chinese argue, would like the Chinese to buy the country's bonds, but seems determined to weaken the dollar's long-term prospect by adopting loose monetary policies, thereby undermining the value of China's huge holdings of Treasury bonds.
Other emerging-market countries are also worried about whether the dollar is facing a long-term decline, analysts say.
''The big issue is the dollar has to and should decline in value because the U.S. is running big deficits,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, a professor of economics at Cornell University and a conference participant. ''And that frustrates China and other emerging market countries. They know they have to buy lots more U.S. Treasuries if they continue accumulating foreign exchange reserves. And the value of those dollar reserves will eventually fall.''
Analysts say China also knows it has put itself in a difficult position by closely tying its currency to the dollar and by accumulating huge amounts of dollar-denominated foreign exchange reserves.
At Thursday's seminar, however, Beijing seemed reluctant to discuss its own currency policies. Even before the seminar began, Beijing did its best to play down the importance of the meeting by insisting that discussion of the renminbi's value was not even on the agenda.
Delegates to the meeting said Chinese leaders were worried that the gathering could revive a longstanding debate about the slow pace of China's currency overhaul.
Some of China's top economic and financial planners, including Vice Prime Minister Wang Qishan and the head of China's Central Bank, Zhou Xiaochuan, attended the meetings Thursday. But participants said Chinese officials continued to insist on gradual changes rather than sharp moves that could shock the system.
President Sarkozy, however, seems to be looking for speedier efforts.
On Thursday, he said the international monetary system was already outdated and ineffective and said change was necessary to avoid ''currency wars'' or recurring financial crises.
In an impassioned address, President Sarkozy called for the International Monetary Fund to play a greater role in supervising the operations of the global monetary system. He also pressed for developing countries to have a greater role in the working of the international monetary system. He also said the I.M.F. should consider including the renminbi in its special drawing right, a kind of synthetic currency.
But like Mr. Geithner, Mr. Sarkozy also suggested that a crucial component in the reform would involve moving toward more flexible exchange rates, a proposal that seemed aimed at pressing China to speed up the pace of its overhaul.
''It is clear that we must evolve towards a more flexible exchange rate system that will allow us to withstand shocks,'' Mr. Sarkozy said in his address.
''But this flexible exchange system,'' he continued, ''cannot evolve without rules, without coordination, without supervision, since instability would prevail. Without rules, the international monetary and financial system is incapable of forestalling crises, financial bubbles and the widening of imbalances.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, left, with Vice Premier Wang Qishan of China. Chinese academics hosted the seminar. (POOL PHOTO BY NELSON CHING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE RATES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); BONDS (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); JIANGSU, CHINA (89%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



26 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: As Budget Talks Continue, Hard-Liners Get Support From Tea Party

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As House Republican leaders worked to cobble together a spending plan for this year that can win bipartisan support, their more conservative members made increasingly clear on Thursday that they consider a proposed $33 billion budget cut to be insufficient.
Even as Speaker John A. Boehner urged Republicans to keep in mind that they would have additional opportunities in the coming weeks to cut long-term spending, some members of his caucus said they would be willing to accept a government shutdown if necessary to back up their demand for $61 billion in cuts for the current fiscal year. 
''That's pretty small,'' said Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, referring to the $33 billion spending reduction that Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said Wednesday evening was the target generally agreed to by both parties. ''This is visible. People see this. You've got to have some significant cuts.''
At a two hour-plus Tea Party rally outside the Capitol, some members, raising their fists to the chants of ''Cut it or shut it,'' suggested they would stand firm.
''It's time to pick a fight,'' said Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana, one of his party's more combative supporters of smaller government. He added, ''If liberals in the Senate would rather play political games and shut down the government instead of making a small down payment on fiscal discipline and reform, I say, 'Shut it down.' ''
Mr. Boehner was left dancing between the Senate Democrats, who have already demonstrated that the $61 billion spending cut cannot pass the Senate, and freshmen and other conservatives in the House pressuring him not to give any ground. During an eight-minute news conference Thursday, he said: ''There's no agreement. Nothing is agreed to until everything is agreed to.''
Publicly, the showdown is now playing out through a hearty mix of political posturing, news conferences, angry words on the floor and threats of a shutdown.
But behind the scenes, staff members and senior law makers on the House and Senate appropriations committees are in the preliminary stages of figuring out precisely how a $33 billion cut would be spread across federal agencies over the balance of the current fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30. Their work will continue as they await a determination of whether both sides can deliver the votes to finalize a deal and avert a government shutdown a week from Friday, when current financing authority expires.
Even if a deal can be reached and a shutdown averted, the two parties will then move on to potentially bigger fights over raising the national debt ceiling, cutting spending for next year and addressing the long-term growth of entitlement programs -- a topic the House Budget Committee plans to put on the front burner in coming weeks.
The immediate question, though, remained whether Mr. Boehner could bring House Republicans along on a deal for a $33 billion cut. ''If that's the number, it ain't good enough,'' said Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah.
Outside the Capitol on a cold, damp afternoon, Tea Party activists from around the country warned that they would not accept less than a $100 billion cut from this year's budget, and that there could be election consequences for those who did not heed their call.
Several lawmakers spoke at the rally, including Representative Michele Bachmann, Republican of Minnesota, with raucous cheers following her every word, and the Republican Senators Jim DeMint of South Carolina and Rand Paul of Kentucky.
A reporter from National Public Radio, which would lose its government money under a bill passed by the House, tried to interview a protester as a man in blue earmuffs shouted repeatedly behind her: ''Cut NPR! Cut NPR!'' Sprinkled among the roughly 300 attendees and their American flags and homemade posters demonizing Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, were a few Code Pink protesters protesting military intervention in Libya, and a young man handing out fliers for Tea Party Activist Boot Camp.
The morning began on the Hill with both the Democratic majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, and the Republican minority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, taking to the floor to make their case on the budget fight.
''Not a single child, not a single student, not a single teacher, not a single nurse, not a single police officer, not a single senior led us into this recession,'' Mr. Reid said, assailing the vast number of cuts to federal spending offered by the House. ''Not one, and punishing innocent bystanders will not lead us to a recovery. We'll continue talking and continue working to find a middle ground.''
Mr. McConnell said the Tea Party activists gathering at the Capitol had sent a powerful message to Washington. ''These folks are not radical,'' he said, adding, ''These are everyday men and women who love their country and don't want to see it collapse.
Senate Republicans also began to roll out of a balanced budget amendment that would, among other things, require a two-thirds vote from both houses for any bill that raises taxes and a three-fifths vote from both houses to increase the debt limit.
While the focus is now on the spending plan to get through the rest of the year, it will pivot next week to the Republican's plan for the 2012 fiscal year, which members who have worked on it say will offer major cuts to federal spending and entitlement programs particularly Medicaid.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on April 1 about pressure on Republican House leaders from their conservative rank and file to make deeper cuts in the budget misstated the home state of Representative Jason Chaffetz. It is Utah, not Iowa.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Michele Bachmann, Republican of Minnesota, was among the lawmakers who spoke at a Tea Party rally outside the Capitol on Thursday. ''Cut it or shut it!'' yelled the protesters, urging more cutbacks. A variety of costumes flavored the crowd. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS
 PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LIBERALISM (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%)

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (79%); JEFF FLAKE (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%); JOE BIDEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



27 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Star Architect's Civic Center Design Divides California City

BYLINE: By ROB TURNER

 BODY:
ELK GROVE, Calif. -- The firm owned by the internationally renowned architect Zaha Hadid is in high demand these days, designing projects in Hong Kong, Milan and Seoul, not to mention the London Aquatics Center, the swimming arena for the 2012 Olympics.
But one of the firm's smaller clients, the city of Elk Grove, population 153,000, recently conjured far different kinds of aquatic life when members of the City Council and the public chose words like ''squid,'' ''octopus'' and ''starfish'' to describe the latest renderings for a proposed civic center. 
Other descriptions were more alien than aquatic. One councilman described the architectural study as ''an animal from a different planet,'' while the mayor, Steven Detrick, said he was expecting ''to hear the theme from 'Star Wars' to start playing'' during the presentation. None of these comments were intended as compliments.
But it wasn't always this way.
As the economy inches back toward stability, some cities are beginning to dust off their pre-recession playbooks and dream big again. And few cities were moving as quickly before the financial crisis as this Sacramento suburb, which the Census Bureau proclaimed America's fastest-growing city in 2006.
It was then that Elk Grove, incorporated in 2000, held an international design competition to create a master plan for a $159 million civic center complex on 78 acres. The project was to include a performing arts center, library, youth sports complexes, convention space and more. The council hoped that an iconic piece of architecture could vault the young city to higher heights, a la Bilbao in Spain and its Guggenheim museum.
And so, this suburban community where City Council agendas have included discussions on topics like how to deal with rampant beaver dams, chose Ms. Hadid, a Baghdad-born, London-based architect known for soaring biomorphic shapes that make Frank Gehry's work look tame.
The mayor was thrilled that they had landed such a big fish. ''We hit a home run on this one,'' gushed James Cooper, the mayor at the time. ''The citizens are so excited. The big thing is to let her be an architect and not stifle the process. We want her to think of something different. This is a new chapter in Elk Grove's life.''
It was a chapter, though, that ended with the recession. And the idea gathered dust until last summer, when the city resumed its relationship with Ms. Hadid's firm to fashion the center's master plan, the process in which the scale and proximity of the structures is determined, though the actual design of individual buildings will be decided later.
But one important factor had changed since she was first selected. Three of the five City Council members were new, and one of the most vocal opponents of the Hadid selection in 2006 was now mayor.
So perhaps it was no surprise that the council members did not attend any of the meetings -- some of which included very positive comments from the public -- over the nine months of planning until the final presentation of the master plan last week. It was listed as an agenda item three hours into the regular Wednesday night council meeting, after a long debate on rowdy bowling alley patrons.
The stormy evening began with roughly 70 people in attendance, but dwindled to about 17 -- two of whom were earnestly knitting -- by the time the Hadid project architect, Bozana Komljenovic, took the podium. The architect showed two versions, both consistent with Ms. Hadid's bold style, and explained how she had arrived at them.
Only two people spoke, including one woman whose voice shook with anger. ''Who is going to pay for this monster?'' she demanded between references to the ''squid'' and ''starfish'' and ''sci-fi'' imagery. ''This is not Elk Grove.'' Her only compliment was that ''at least they put some landscaping between the tentacles.''
''This is more like something I'd see in Dubai than Elk Grove,'' added Mayor Detrick who, like the other council members present, was struggling to see past the design to the master plan itself. The lone voice of support came from Mr. Cooper, now the vice mayor.
City officials hope to break ground on the first part of the complex next year.
The only agreement reached by the council last week was that the ''starfish'' design had the preferred density, which left more room for softball and soccer fields. Ms. Komljenovic defended the work the next day. ''They asked us to provide an iconic element that would create a draw from outside of Elk Grove,'' she said. ''I assume that's why we were brought in to begin with.''
One unabashed fan is the city's planning director, Taro Echiburu, who expects to start a new competition for the design stage this summer and hopes that Ms. Hadid's firm will participate. ''I loved the designs,'' he said. Informed, however, that the mayor said he was unlikely to support any project proposed by Ms. Hadid's firm, Mr. Echiburu insists that he still hopes for the best. ''I'll be disappointed if this ends up as Anytown, U.S.A.,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rendering for a civic center in Elk Grove, Calif., designed by the architect Zaha Hadid's firm. It has been described as alien or like a squid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZAHA HADID ARCHITECTS, VIA SACTOWN MAGAZINE)
 Ms. Hadid in Rome last year. Her work is known for soaring shapes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUIDO MONTANI/ANSA, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAMMALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); OLYMPICS (77%); CENSUS (72%); YOUTH SPORTS (72%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (72%); SUBURBS (66%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%)

COMPANY: GROVE INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (67%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SPAIN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



28 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'CIRCO'; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Big Top as Family Business

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
Paralleling the death throes of a marriage and a 100-year-old tradition, ''Circo'' takes to the earthen roads of rural Mexico to document one of the Ponce family's many traveling circuses. 
Known as the Gran Circo Mexico, this struggling caravan of lions, llamas, clowns and contortionists is constantly on the move. Stopping for only one or two days at a time, the 10-person outfit (5 adults and 5 children) toils in an endless cycle of loading and offloading, erecting and disassembling. For Tino Ponce, the ringmaster and jack of all trades, there is no other possible life, and his fierce love for the business is ample consolation for his lack of literacy.
But his wife, Ivonne -- who married into the circus -- feels differently. ''They give us too much,'' she says, watching her young children juggle, contort and swing from silk streamers. The daily grind of chores, rehearsals and performances leaves little time for school, and Ivonne resents their unrelentingly laborious life and her father-in-law's monopoly on their earnings. And though her children seem mostly content -- while marveling that their peers in the towns they pass through do nothing but ''go to school and play''-- it soon becomes clear that the animals are not the only ones who are caged.
The first feature from Aaron Schock (who also shot the film's soft, smudged images), ''Circo'' offers a touching chronicle of a dying culture harnessed to ambitions that remain very much alive. Never mind the declining attendance, collapsing economy, backbreaking debt and intra-familial tensions; to Tino his circus is still the greatest show on earth.
CIRCO
Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
Produced and directed by Aaron Schock; written by Mr. Schock and Mark Becker; director of photography, Mr. Schock; edited by Mr. Becker; music by Calexico; produced by Jannat Gargi, Hecho a Mano Films and the Independent Television Service; released by First Run Features. At the IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village. In Spanish, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 15 minutes. This film is not rated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alexia Ponce, left, and Reyna Ponce in Aaron Schock's ''Circo.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FIRST RUN FEATURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); FILM DIRECTORS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%)

PERSON: AARON SCHOCK (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Circo (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



29 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Obama's Energy Vision: His path to oil independence is right, but Republicans stand in the way

 BODY:
It was instructive and depressing this week to watch President Obama and Congressional Republicans marching in completely different directions on energy policy. Mr. Obama reminded us that charting a clean energy future is not a pipe dream and that America can reduce its dependence on foreign oil. The Republicans reminded us how hard it will be to get there.
The outcome depends in no small measure on how hard Mr. Obama is willing to battle for his policies. As he showed again in a speech on Wednesday, he has no trouble articulating energy-related issues. What remains in doubt has been his willingness to see the fight through. This time must be different. 
Beset by rising gas prices and Middle Eastern turmoil, Mr. Obama, like other presidents, decried the nation's dependence on foreign oil. He also said there were no quick fixes and that a nation with only 2 percent of the world's reserves cannot drill its way to self-sufficiency.
He then offered a strategy aimed at, among other things, reducing oil imports by one-third by 2025, partly by increasing domestic production but largely by producing more efficient vehicles and by moving advanced biofuels from the laboratory to commercial production.
These are achievable goals. Reducing oil imports by one-third means using 3.7 million fewer barrels a day. The fuel economy standards set last year by the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Transportation will yield 1.7 million of those barrels; the next round of standards, now on the drawing boards at the E.P.A., will yield another 1.7 million barrels. Advanced biofuels and improved mass transit could get us the rest of the way.
None of these goals will be reached if the Republicans who dominate their party have their way. One particularly destructive amendment to the House's irresponsible budget bill would strip the E.P.A. of its authority to regulate greenhouse gases from vehicles and stationary sources. This authority, conferred by the Supreme Court, made possible the current fuel economy rules -- which would be cast into doubt if the bill became law. It is obviously essential to any new round of rule-making. The bill also gave short shrift to most other clean energy programs.
Then there are three bills offered by Doc Hastings, the Washington Republican who leads the House Natural Resources Committee. The bills would effectively rewrite the rules governing offshore drilling imposed after the gulf oil spill, opening vast areas of the Atlantic, Pacific and Arctic to exploration and greatly accelerating the measured pace at which the administration has been issuing drilling permits in the Gulf of Mexico.
The chances for responsible progress seem greater in the Senate, despite mischievous efforts to undermine the E.P.A. by Republicans and some coal-country Democrats. Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, is demanding a vote on a bill that would mimic the House budget measure by stripping the agency of its authority to regulate greenhouse gases. John D. Rockefeller IV, a West Virginia Democrat, has reintroduced a bill that would delay any such regulation for two years, which is almost as bad because such delays have a way of becoming permanent.
A more positive note was sounded Thursday by a bipartisan group of senators assembled by Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat, and Saxby Chambliss, a Republican of Georgia. The group is the remnants of the so-called Gang of 10 that tried to work out a sensible energy strategy during the ''drill, baby, drill'' hysteria of the 2008 presidential campaign. The group failed then, but Mr. Obama's speech appears to have inspired a reunion -- a tender shoot Mr. Obama should move quickly to encourage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BIOMASS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (74%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (74%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); GREENHOUSE GASES (74%); OIL SPILLS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); BIOFUELS (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); DOC HASTINGS (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



30 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: 2 IN CABINET SAY U.S. IS NOT LIKELY TO ARM LIBYANS

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and THOM SHANKER; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's top two national security officials signaled on Thursday that the United States was unlikely to arm the Libyan rebels, raising the possibility that the French alone among the Western allies would provide weapons and training for the poorly organized forces fighting Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's government.
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates made his views known for the first time on Thursday in a marathon day of testimony to members of Congress. He said the United States should stick to offering communications, surveillance and other support, but suggested that the administration had no problem with other countries sending weapons to help the rebels, who in recent days have been retreating under attack from pro-Qaddafi forces.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who pushed the president to intervene in Libya, was described by an administration official on Thursday as supremely cautious about arming the rebels ''because of the unknowns'' about who they were and whether they might have links to Al Qaeda. 
Earlier Thursday, the secretary general of NATO, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, told reporters in Stockholm that he believed that the United Nations Security Council resolution authorizing the air campaign in Libya did not even permit individual countries to arm the rebels. But there was considerable disagreement within the military alliance, including from the United States, which has taken the position that the resolution does in fact allow arming them.
In Libya, as the opposition forces began a cautious regrouping after a panicked retreat on Wednesday, an atmosphere of paranoia descended on the capital, Tripoli, after the defection of the foreign minister, Moussa Koussa.
Fears that the government could be cracking were deepened further when a second top Libyan official, Ali Abdussalam el-Treki, defected Thursday to Egypt.
In Washington, the unified position of Mr. Gates and Mrs. Clinton appeared to dull a debate within the administration about the merits of the United States' supplying weapons to the rebels, a disparate, little-known group. Publicly, Mr. Obama has said only that he is still weighing what to do. France is the only nation that has said it intends to supply arms to the anti-Qaddafi forces.
''What the opposition needs as much as anything right now is some training, some command and control, and some organization,'' Mr. Gates told members of the House Armed Services Committee in a morning session. ''It's pretty much a pickup ballgame at this point.''
But, he said, providing training and weapons is ''not a unique capability for the United States, and as far as I'm concerned, somebody else can do that.''
Mr. Gates told Congress that he strongly opposed putting any United States forces in Libya. Asked if there would be American ''boots on the ground'' -- uniformed members of the military -- Mr. Gates swiftly replied, ''Not as long as I'm in this job.'' He refused to address reports that the Central Intelligence Agency had sent clandestine operatives to Libya to gather intelligence for military airstrikes and to contact and vet the rebels.
Mr. Gates and Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, were summoned to testify in a highly politicized atmosphere on Capitol Hill, where members of both parties charged them with either ''mission creep'' in Libya or with not doing enough.
Many demanded to know how the conflict would end, and others admonished the administration, saying it had gone to war without seeking Congressional authorization.
Still others said the president had not told the public the truth about the operation. The White House describes it as a humanitarian mission to protect Libyan civilians, but it has involved more than 200 Tomahawk cruise missiles fired at Libya and the bombing and strafing by American and allied planes of Colonel Qaddafi's ground forces.
''These are combat operations,'' said Representative Mike Coffman, Republican of Colorado, during the morning session. ''I don't know why this administration has not been honest with the American people that this is about regime change.''
He concluded, ''This is just the most muddled definition of an operation probably in U.S. military history.''
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, was first on the offensive in the afternoon, charging the administration with walking away from the conflict now that the United States has said it will be in a military support role behind NATO.
What that means, Admiral Mullen told Mr. McCain and the rest of the Senate Armed Services Committee, is that the United States will no longer conduct airstrikes in Libya unless requested by NATO.
''This would be a profound mistake with potentially disastrous consequences,'' Mr. McCain said. He said that withdrawing the muscle of the American military was out of alignment with Mr. Obama's policy goal of ousting Colonel Qaddafi.
''Hope is not a strategy,'' Mr. McCain said, ''and it certainly does not degrade armored units.''
Mr. Gates, stony-faced throughout the day, found himself in the awkward position of having to defend a military action that he had been reluctant to get into in the first place.
The defense secretary had been the most skeptical of the president's top advisers about imposing a no-fly zone over Libya, and said repeatedly that it would require the kind of missile and airstrikes that began raining down on Libya on the night of March 19.
Members of Congress repeatedly asked how the president would avoid a stalemate, particularly as the rebels had backtracked in the previous 48 hours.
Admiral Mullen placed some blame for the retreat on two days of heavy clouds and blowing sand and dirt, which had prompted allied pilots to hold fire -- making it apparent that Qaddafi forces had taken advantage of the lull in airstrikes to push the rebels into retreat.
Military officials later said that while American and allied aircraft could fight in all weather and at night, pilots were using extra caution before deciding to fire at targets on the ground, for fear of inflicting civilian casualties when fighters from both sides mingled with the population.
''As I know you know, we've been very badly impeded in the last few days by weather,'' Admiral Mullen told Mr. McCain.
Democrats told Mr. Gates and Admiral Mullen that they had been left in the dark by the White House, even though they acknowledged that Mr. Obama had made his decision on military action less than 48 hours before the attack began.
''Even before the White House knows exactly what it's going to do, there is some benefit to bringing leadership in Congress into the discussion in terms of building support here,'' said Representative Adam Smith of Washington, the top Democrat on the House panel.
At the same time, Representative Howard P. McKeon, Republican of California and the chairman of the House committee, said history had shown that the Libyan government could be resilient in the face of allied air power.
''If Qaddafi does not face an imminent military defeat or refuses to abdicate,'' Mr. McKeon said, ''it seems that NATO could be expected to support decadelong no-fly zone enforcement like the one over Iraq in the 1990s.''
Mr. Gates said that he expected American involvement to be limited and that the conflict would probably end with Colonel Qaddafi's removal from power, either by economic and political pressures or by his own people.
But under questioning from Mr. McKeon, Mr. Gates said he did not have a time frame for Colonel Qaddafi's ouster. ''The bottom line is, no one can predict for you how long it will take for that to happen,'' he said.
Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is the Armed Services chairman, pressed Mr. Gates to weigh the pros and cons of arming the rebels.
Mr. Gates expressed caution, saying that the United States knew very little about the rebel leaders, whom he described as ''disparate, disaggregated,'' nor how they would act if they toppled the Qaddafi government and came to power.
''I think that one of the concerns that we have to have is that we don't know very much about the opposition,'' Mr. Gates said.
He noted that a substantial supply of small-caliber arms already was available to the opposition, and that rebels needed training to become a more effective force. ''I believe that requires advisers on the ground, as would more sophisticated weapons,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about indications from Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton that the United States was unlikely to arm the Libyan rebels misstated the date on which the missile and air strikes against Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's government began. It was March 19, not March 12.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise, Senators Carl Levin and John McCain, Adm. Mike Mullen and Secretary Gates. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); TESTIMONY (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); CARL LEVIN (56%); ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



31 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 1, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: The Economics of Privately Sponsored Social Insurance

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: The goals and methods of the health care program based last year, derided by its critics as ObamaCare, is widely misunderstand, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
On March 23, Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin, marked the first anniversary of President Obama's signing into law of the Affordable Care Act of 2010 by publishing a commentary in The Wall Street Journal, "ObamaCare and Carey's Heart." 
He began with a touching celebration of the life-saving operation that had been performed some 27 years ago by highly skilled surgeons on the senator's young daughter, who was born with a serious heart defect. He noted that this undoubtedly expensive operation had been financed by a "run-of-the-mill plan available to every employee of an Oshkosh, Wis., plastics plant." 
His commentary suggests that he views this "free market" approach to financing health care as the foundation of our health system's remarkable innovations and achievements. 
Senator Johnson's commentary then veered into a sharp broadside aimed at the Affordable Care Act of 2010: 
I don't even want to think what might have happened if she had been born at a time and place where government defined the limits for most insurance policies and set precedents on what would be covered. Would the life-saving procedures that saved her have been deemed cost-effective by policy makers deciding where to spend increasingly scarce tax dollars?
Not surprisingly, this comment elicited much criticalcommentary, some of it needlessly vehement.

I do not wish to join that a vituperative chorus, because there is much I admire in the senator. He worked hard in his youth to put himself through the University of Minnesota and studied at night for a master's of business administration, and he eventually risked his own money and used his vision and even harder work as an entrepreneur to please customers worldwide and, in the process, create a good livelihood for his family and for his employees. I look up to such entrepreneurs. We all should.
Even so, I am puzzled about why the senator does not see in the Affordable Care Act a sincere attempt to replicate his family's fine health care experience for millions of low-income, uninsured Americans. 
The idea is to help those with family incomes above 133 percent of the federal poverty level (currently about $30,000 for a family of four) procure - on an organized state- or federally run health-insurance exchange - community-rated, publicly subsidized, private health insurance of the sort that financed his daughter's cure.
A government-run health insurance exchange is not such a novel idea, nor should it be controversial. The federal government's Office of Personnel Management has for decades run such an exchange for every member of Congress and for federal employees, and very successfully, by all accounts. 
To see why the Affordable Care Act is actually trying to mimic employment-based private health insurance, let me propose this definition: Employment-based group health insurance, American style, is publicly subsidized, privately sponsored, community-rated social insurance sold to American employees on formally organized health insurance exchanges.
Let me explain how I come to this definition.
First, economists are virtually unanimous that the bulk of the cost of fringe benefits -- including health insurance -- that is ostensibly covered by an employer is actually taken out of the paychecks of employees collectively, if not year by year then in the long run. Exactly what fraction of the cost is shifted back to employees in this way depends on a number of factors.
As I jokingly put it to my students, employee-benefit managers, basically kindly social workers camouflaged in business attire, are similar to pickpockets who take money out of your paychecks and then use it to buy you health insurance, for which you thank them profusely. 
In other words, the employees actually pay most or the full premiums for their employment-based health insurance, even if they do not make an overt contribution toward the insurance premium. 
Second, to assist employees in making this purchase, the benefit managers organize a formal health-insurance exchange that lists a side-by-side comparison of the different insurers among which employees can choose. 
While there are some variations in the benefit packages offered by the various insurance companies on the list, the packages are typically dictated by the employee-benefit department, which also selects the health insurance plans permitted to list themselves on the exchange (and those that are not) and tightly regulates these companies' behavior during and after the enrollment period. 
Of course, smaller companies usually list fewer and sometimes only one or two insurers on their exchanges. Part of the intent of the Affordable Care Act is to offer these small employers access to the larger state-run exchanges, so their employees have more choices among insurers.
Third, the contributions employees make directly toward the premium for health insurance (through explicit deduction from their paychecks), plus their indirect contribution through reductions in take-home pay, are effectively community rated. This means healthier employees are forced to subsidize through their premiums the health care of sicker employees by effectively paying the same premiums. 
Consider two workers performing the same work in a company, one healthy and the other chronically sick. They will make the same direct contribution to the identical insurance policy and receive the same take-home pay. 
In other words, the idea that raised so many hackles last year - that younger, healthier Americans should, through community-rated health-insurance premiums, subsidize sicker Americans - has long been accepted by the bulk of Americans at their place of work. 
In this sense, then, private employment-based group insurance qualifies for the label of "social insurance," even though it is privately sponsored. It is, of course, not socialized medicine, but neither are the Medicare, Medicaid and Tricare programs, government-sponsored social insurance programs that procure health care from the private sector. 
Only the program that Americans reserve for military veterans, and apparently preferred by them - the vast Veterans Administration Health System - is pure socialized medicine. 
Finally, Americans who procure health insurance at their place of work receive generous public subsidies toward that purchase, and higher-income earners receive larger subsidies than lower-income earners. This is so because the contributions employers make toward the group health-insurance premiums of their employees are tax-deductible business expenses, but not taxable compensation to the employee - even though it is a form of compensation. 
Estimates of the total dollar amount of that subsidy range between $200 billion and $300 billion a year, depending on what taxes are included in the analysis - only federal income taxes, or also payroll taxes, or also state income taxes, if any. Estimates consistently show that high-income earners receive the bulk of that public subsidy.
The current amount of that subsidy is estimated at around $200 billion a year, although some estimates go higher, depending on what taxes are included in the analysis -- only federal income taxes, or also payroll taxes, or also state income taxes, if any. 
Estimates consistently show that high-income earners in high marginal tax brackets receive the bulk of that public subsidy.
Having said all this, I ask you to imagine a low-income family whose head or heads of household work at very low wages in small companies that do not offer their employees health insurance, which is the case at many small companies. Suppose their little daughter was born with exactly the same condition as was Senator Johnson's daughter. What should the fate of that little girl be? 
Perhaps the senator could provide some commentary on that, as well. 

        
Health Reform, the Reward to Work and Massachusetts
        
Older Workers Could Benefit if Companies Drop Insurance
        
From Physician Glut to Physician Shortage
        
Where 'Socialized Medicine' Has a U.S. Foothold
        
Health Care: Solidarity vs. Rugged Individualism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); HEART DISEASE (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (71%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); INSURANCE POLICIES (70%); HUMAN RESOURCES (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Johnson, Ron (1955- ); Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); United States; Economix

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

PERSON: RON JOHNSON (90%); TIM JOHNSON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%) Johnson, Ron (1955- )

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013



32 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1635 words

HEADLINE: College Plans You Thought Were Safe

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
The predicament of state workers has drawn a great deal of attention recently, and rightly so. The health of their pension plans and their right to organize are fundamental issues.
But the state budget crises that have led to these reckonings have also put state university students and their families in troublesome situations.
In California, this has meant enormous increases in tuition. In Georgia, the beloved Hope scholarship that covered many educational costs for academically qualified students will be less generous come autumn. And in November, Tennessee stopped letting new participants into a plan that allowed parents to lock in tuition prices for their children.
It is in Illinois, however, where the discussion over what a state owes its families has become most intense in recent weeks, as scores of families in one of its 529 college savings plans realize that they may not get the returns that they thought the state had promised them. 
Like Tennessee, the College Illinois prepaid tuition program allows parents to pay early to lock in prices for later. But many of those families were not aware until they read a recent article in Crain's Chicago Business that their ability to lock in tomorrow's prices today was not, in fact, 100 percent guaranteed. If the Illinois plan became unable to pay its obligations to families in or near college, the state legislature would not necessarily ride to the rescue to pay every child's tuition.
About a dozen such state plans, known as prepaid 529 plans, are still open to new entrants. If you're enrolled in one, today's the day to go back and read the entire rulebook. But anyone saving for college (or retirement, for that matter) ought to take the following lesson away from the tale of confusion in Illinois: Even if your state tells you something is safe, you should check the fine print.
Here's how 529 plans are supposed to work. There are two basic types. The first is a savings plan, in which you invest in a handful of mutual funds and other investments. As long as you use the money for higher education expenses, you don't have to pay taxes on capital gains.
The second type, the prepaid savings, generally allows parents who are state residents to pay money today to lock in prices at a state university later. Families usually pay some sort of a premium over the current tuition price to make up for the expected tuition inflation in between. (There is also usually a refund available for people whose children do not attend a state college after all.)
What many parents fail to realize, however, is that states differ in how (or if) they guarantee the return on these upfront payments.
Florida, Massachusetts, Mississippi and Washington do guarantee that the state will step in to make good on the promises to keep up with tuition inflation if the fund can no longer meet its obligations because its own investments have underperformed, according to Savingforcollege.com, a Web site about 529 plans. Illinois, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, Nevada, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia do not offer an overarching guarantee.
In the online version of this article, I've linked to a Saving for College chart with more detail on all of the prepaid plans. The chart includes some plans that are closed to new entrants, important footnotes on the Virginia and West Virginia plans and information on Texas, which is its own special case.
Illinois opened a prepaid 529 plan in the late 1990s, and like most other states, it allowed early participants to lock in prices that were much too low, in retrospect. In the states' defense, few people anticipated that many state university systems would end up like the one in Illinois, which has raised tuition by an average of 10 percent annually over the last decade.
Just how far off was the Illinois plan's pricing? In 2006, parents of a newborn there could buy an eight-semester contract for tuition (though not room and board) to attend its flagship university for $41,493. Today, that would cost parents $95,521, a whopping 130 percent increase in five years.
Here's what the Illinois program promised in its various marketing materials to parents frightened by the rapidly escalating prices (all of these statements are direct quotations).
Prepaid tuition programs give you peace of mind knowing you have all or part of your student's college tuition covered.
A College Illinois savings plan is not dependent on stock market performance, so there are no worries about a plan lessening in value.
Each contract holder is entitled to receive the tuition and fee benefits as stated in the contract, regardless of fluctuations in the market.
All of that sounded pretty good in late 2008 to David Mutnick, an options broker who lives in Deerfield, Ill., given that the world seemed to be falling apart around him each day at work. So he and his wife prepaid for their daughter's tuition in full and were contemplating doing the same thing for their younger son when the Crain's article appeared.
It reminded readers that plan managers invest the money, and the state does not guarantee that it will make good on the plan's intent to cover tuition inflation if the investments underperform. If the fund is in danger of not being able to meet its obligations to families with children in or near college, however, it will ask the legislature for a bailout.
The plan does disclose this -- in capital letters -- on page 14 of its master agreement with participants, among other places. Mr. Mutnick and, he said, every one of his friends and colleagues, did not see it. ''If someone had called from a financial company promising certain returns, my guard would have been up,'' he said. ''You don't have that same reaction when your state presents you with this option as a way to help families to afford college.''
And all of the state's language about peace of mind and entitlement? ''It's a lie,'' he said.
As you might expect, John Samuels, who oversees marketing for the state commission that operates the Illinois plan, doesn't particularly like that characterization. ''I don't think peace of mind and a guarantee necessarily go hand in hand,'' he said. ''We don't know of any option to keep up with tuition inflation that provides more peace of mind than this program.''
It's hard to draw much reassurance from the most recent numbers. The plan had $1.35 billion in assets and $1.69 billion in liabilities as of June 30, 2010. It believes it will make up the shortfall if tuition doesn't rise by more than 8 percent each year, the number of new plan participants increases sharply and the fund's investments return more than 8.75 percent annually.
I asked Mr. Samuels on Wednesday for the actuaries' projections on when or if the fund might be in danger of needing a bailout if returns were lower, tuition inflation was higher or fewer new families signed up in the wake of the bad publicity. He said he'd see what he could do but then did not provide the numbers, promising to do so soon. (I'll put them up on our Bucks blog once they arrive.) On Friday afternoon, the state commission that runs the plan announced that it was hiring ''nationally recognized'' experts to review the plan's investment strategy and actuarial assumptions.
So let's say the fund did need a bailout. Would the state legislature come through? After all, it worked that way in Alabama recently when its plan ran into problems.
I put the question to Jim Durkin, a lawyer and Republican state representative who had also put money in the fund for his daughter before he ran for public office. He, too, did not realize it was not guaranteed until the Crain's story appeared.
''I guess the response would be, 'Get in line,' '' he said, noting that the state has much bigger problems with its pension obligations and its chronic inability to balance its budget. ''We're talking about 55,000 contracts for 35,000 families. I don't think this is a Tier 1 priority.''
Risk-averse families will probably read that comment as a clear signal to withdraw their money from the program. But Representative Durkin isn't trying to cause some kind of run on the bank. ''That would be devastating,'' he said. ''It may take time, but I want to at least restore integrity to the program, which I think it has lost.''
Mr. Mutnick, the options broker, has a simple suggestion for Representative Durkin: given how confident the plan managers seem to be in its solvency, the state legislature could simply step in and provide a true guarantee on the funds. ''If they are not willing to do that, then that is an admission that the program is underfunded,'' Mr. Mutnick said.
Representative Durkin said that he was reluctant to pursue a legislative solution, but was not foreclosing the possibility either.
If this movie hasn't come to your state yet, you can be reasonably sure that it will soon enough. People like me preach the virtues of diversification so often that it is in danger of becoming mere background noise. But this is yet another case study in why it's so important.
Are you inclined to cross your fingers and keep money in a plan like the one in Illinois? Well, it's best to have a 529 savings account, too, to pay for costs that a prepaid account doesn't cover, plus some just-in-case money in the event a state doesn't make good on a prepaid plan and you only get, say, your original investment back if it fails.
The same advice goes for any pension plan, particularly one for government employees. You want alternative sources of retirement money, in case of some kind of unforeseen circumstance.
And if you're a taxpayer without children and plenty of money in the bank? Don't count on being immune from all of this. Failures in any of the above may lead your elected representatives to reach into your pockets to make up the shortfall.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Mutnick was surprised to find that a prepaid 529 plan wasn't backed by his state. (B1)
 David Mutnick, 35, and his wife, Randi, 31, hoped to guarantee college tuition for their children, Eli, 10 months, and Josie, 3. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); FAMILY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); PARENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (61%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



33 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: In a Broadway Role, Many Returns

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
''Lace curtain Irish'' is an acid-tipped verbal dart when it zips from the mouth of Frances McDormand's character, Margie, and hits Tate Donovan, as Mike, in the Broadway play ''Good People.'' Margie, bitter and unemployed, is stuck in Southie, a hardscrabble Boston neighborhood. Mike, a doctor, has left both her and the neighborhood behind.
But Mr. Donovan, a versatile actor and lately a director, said that in his own Irish family ''lace curtain'' was no epithet, in spite of Margie's insinuation that it signifies pretentiousness. The term, Mr. Donovan's own father -- a physician -- told him, was happily in opposition to the ''shanty Irish,'' who were poor and uneducated. 
''My father, just like my character, had to pull himself out of a really bad neighborhood,'' Mr. Donovan, 47, explained recently at a hotel restaurant near the Samuel J. Friedman Theater, where the show is playing through May 29. Thin and lively, and looking younger than his age (''Even with the gray in my beard?'' he wondered), he talked enthusiastically about a lengthy career in television and film and on the stage, and took special pleasure in describing his charged scenes opposite Ms. McDormand in ''Good People,'' David Lindsay-Abaire's acclaimed play.
Mr. Donovan, who grew up in Tenafly, N.J., as the youngest of six children, called ''Good People'' a nice break from a year in which he has done nothing but direct. He was drawn to the play, he said, because it had something important to say about the widening gap between classes.
''I was blown away by the authenticity of it,'' Mr. Donovan said. ''It was really Irish and really funny and so up my alley.'' Mike -- or Mikey, as Ms. McDormand's character quickly reminds him he once was called -- is a complicated figure, at once confident and unwilling to examine his own actions. Still, Mr. Donovan said, ''I liked him the first moment he opened his mouth.''
Mr. Lindsay-Abaire, who grew up in Southie and who won the 2007 Pulitzer Prize for ''Rabbit Hole,'' said it was important to cast an actor who ''could play both sides of that character,'' yet remain likable.
''There's something mercurial about Tate,'' he explained. ''Tate is someone who can play the truth and a lie at the same time.'' (He said he was impressed by Mr. Donovan when he starred in ''Rabbit Hole'' in Los Angeles.)
Mr. Donovan said he had wanted to be an actor since age 4, when he watched a film about medieval knights. He majored in theater at the University of Southern California.
His father, J. Timothy Donovan, a urologist from the Flatlands section of Brooklyn, who died in 2000, communicated his disapproval by sending his son newspaper articles about the difficulties of the acting life and ''literally didn't talk to me for three years,'' Mr. Donovan recalled.
He eventually came around, and Mr. Donovan found lots of work, though he has never broken out to be a household name. (Being engaged to Jennifer Aniston for a while may have been his celebrity high point.)
His career has ranged from the 1986 film ''SpaceCamp'' to playing opposite Judi Dench on Broadway in ''Amy's View'' in 1999. On television he was Jimmy Cooper in ''The OC'' and Tom Shayes in ''Damages'' and has taken to directing, including episodes of those two series, ''Weeds'' and ''Glee.''
''I've always been an actor who hangs out with the director by the monitor,'' he said.
''Good People'' has brought Mr. Donovan, who is divorced and lives blocks from the beach in Santa Monica, Calif., back home.
''It's great to see my family and just enjoy the energy,'' he said. ''There's so much to do here, you feel guilty if you don't do anything. I just signed up for a one-and-a-half-mile Hudson River swim.''
He gets a nightly workout of the verbal variety dueling with Ms. McDormand, who in the first act barges into his character's medical office and in Act II into his home in an affluent Boston suburb. There she meets his wife and manages to fling dirt from the past.
Although they had never worked together before, Ms. McDormand said in an e-mail that she had found ''we are well-suited as actors -- we have just enough ego but not too much.''
Ms. McDormand added: ''Tate and I have a singular tango every night in the doctor's office scene that still, after many performances, has a thrill of the unknown. It is a really tricky bit of writing -- the two of them juggle the power and it's not always clear who has it and at what time.''
While audiences leave ''Good People'' debating whether the title of the play applies to his character at all, Mr. Donovan maintained that it was not his job to pass judgment.
''Actors don't think about things as good or bad -- we think about choices, and how we go about making those choices,'' he said. ''''We're all just pulling the rope, as we are in life, for what we want.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tate Donovan at the Friedman Theater, where he appears in ''Good People.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
 Frances McDormand and Tate Donovan in ''Good People.'' She said the play has shown that ''we are well-suited as actors.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CELEBRITIES (77%); FILM (76%); THEATER (72%); RESTAURANTS (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (74%)

TITLE: Good People (Play)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



34 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Untangling the Skies

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Imagine an air traffic system where planes would no longer have to wait in long rush-hour lines before taking off, or have to circle the skies before landing. In this world, planes would be able to fly more direct routes and land along smoother glide paths.
Those are the changes the Federal Aviation Administration has been promising for years through an ambitious program to modernize the nation's air traffic system, and replace radars on the ground with satellite technology. The problem is that this new system, called NextGen, will cost an estimated $30 billion to $42 billion to complete. So far, the airlines have been reluctant to put up their half of the money for a system that will not be operational for at least a decade.
But NextGen, which stands for the Next Generation Air Transportation System, received a boost on Friday with House passage of a $59.7 billion bill that finances the F.A.A. over the next four years, providing much-needed stability to the agency's flagship program. Since 2007, the F.A.A. bill had been repeatedly stalled and its budget temporarily extended 18 times. 
The bill, which was approved 223 to 196, largely along party lines, also cuts overall spending on aviation by $4 billion and includes a provision that would curb the right of airline employees to unionize. The bill from the Republican-dominated House must still be reconciled with a vastly different version that the Senate, controlled by Democrats, approved in February. The White House has said it will veto a final bill that includes the labor provision.
And Representative Nick J. Rahall of West Virginia, the ranking Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, assailed the deep cuts in the F.A.A. budget, which, he noted, came a week after two airliners landed at Washington National Airport without being able to contact the single air traffic controller on duty.
Modernizing the nation's current air traffic system, which is based on technology invented during World War II, is universally seen as critical to coping with the congested airspace over the United States and to accommodate growing traffic. In its latest forecast, the F.A.A. estimated that United States airlines would carry 1.3 billion passengers in 2031, up from about 700 million in 2011.
Just like GPS for cars, satellite navigation gives pilots their exact location at any given time. Air traffic controllers would not have to wait 30 seconds for the next sweep of their radar screen to know the locations of planes. Radar's limits means that controllers must now keep planes three miles apart when they approach airports. This limits the number of planes that can land each hour and contributes to the longer lines for takeoff.
''Today's airspace is woefully antiquated,'' said Steve Fulton, who helped pioneer satellite-guided navigation with Alaska Airlines in the 1990s and now works for GE Aviation.
Airlines burn an extra 10 percent of fuel today, he said, as they circle complicated approach routes or are put on a holding pattern by controllers juggling several flights.
''Instead of a chaotic and unplanned and unpredictable system, NextGen would provide precise synchronization,'' he said.
Because of the surge in traffic in recent decades, the current system is often operating at the limits of its capacity. Robert W. Mann Jr., an aviation industry expert in Port Washington, N.Y., estimated that delays and airport congestion cost the industry as much as $12 billion a year in lost time and extra fuel costs.
The United States has also been lagging other countries that are already moving into this digital navigation age, including Australia, Canada, China, and several European countries like Sweden.
Yet airlines, which continue to be low in cash, have been reluctant to commit before they get a clearer sense on how the F.A.A. plans to transition to this new technology.
''Basically, it comes down to economics,'' Mr. Mann said. ''This is an industry that is not operationally driven. It is financially driven. And unfortunately, the airlines have learned to be very circumspect.''
Experts said the repeated delays in financing over the last few years have contributed to NextGen's slow pace. The F.A.A. also has a history of being unable to complete large-scale investment programs on time and on budget.
In a report last month, the Department of Transportation's inspector general said that another of the F.A.A.'s major technological programs, called En Route Automation Modernization, was four years behind schedule and could end up costing as much as $500 million more than its initial budget of $2.1 billion. The program, one of the building blocks of NextGen, is intended to track airliners at cruising altitude. It has suffered software glitches, including tagging flight numbers to the wrong planes, at its initial testing centers in Seattle and Salt Lake City.
''Yes, we have not been perfect in the past in technological rollouts,'' said Michael P. Huerta, the F.A.A.'s deputy administrator. ''But this one is different.''
Of NextGen, he added, ''We are beyond this being a research and planning project and we are very much in implementations.''
The airlines are broadly supportive of the F.A.A.'s goals to make the system more efficient, said Sharon Pinkerton, the senior vice president for legislative and regulatory policy at the Air Transport Association, the industry's main trade group. But the F.A.A. needs to establish some clearer benchmarks on how it plans to move forward, she said.
''Airlines would like to ensure that the F.A.A. is able to demonstrate they can deliver the promised benefits of NextGen, especially from projects in which airlines have already equipped planes,'' said Ms. Pinkerton, a former F.A.A. assistant administrator for aviation policy, planning and environment.
Alaska Airlines, for instance, has been using a satellite-guidance tool called R.N.P., or Required Navigation Performance, that allows its planes to take off and land along more direct routes than traditional approaches, even in bad weather with low visibility.
Southwest Airlines has invested $150 million to equip most of its 600 Boeing 737s with this technology.
The F.A.A. said it has established more than 900 procedures and routes for planes equipped with the satellite technology at about 200 airports. But carriers complain that many of them are simply overlaid on the old radar-based approaches, which makes them far less effective. As a result, the benefits to the airlines have been diluted.
''These new aircraft have extraordinary capabilities that we can't use because we have older planes crowding the airspace and because we don't have the required navigation capabilities,'' said David Cush, the chief executive of Virgin America, which has a younger fleet equipped with satellite technology.
Southwest, for instance, uses the technology at only 11 airports, including Los Angeles and Raleigh-Durham.
Mike Van de Ven, Southwest's chief operating officer, said the F.A.A. should give landing priority to planes with the latest satellite navigation tools onboard, instead of on a first-come-first serve basis, as is the case today.
''If you have made the investment in the equipage to allow your plane to be more efficient,'' Mr. Van de Ven said, ''we believe you ought to get preferential treatment.''
Steve Dickson, senior vice president for flight operations at Delta Air Lines, said the airlines had a long history of investing in technologies the F.A.A. required, but that never paid off.
''It's fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me,'' he said.
''Right now, based on our track record, the benefits accrue to the late adopters. We need to change that paradigm if we want to move forward.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pilots test the new satellite technology, called NextGen, which is expected to cost $30 billion to $42 billion. It has also been delayed by software glitches. (B1)
 Chuck Greenlow, an air traffic control project engineer, monitored the equipment on a test flight. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (75%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (75%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (74%); APPROVALS (72%); VETO (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: NICK J RAHALL II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



35 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; HARLEM JOURNAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: A High School Poised At a Moment of Pride And Great Anxiety

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
On a cold, sunny Tuesday morning, the entrance to Rice High School in Harlem is bustling. Television reporters are milling about, waiting to talk to the school's current and former basketball coaches about Kemba Walker, the Rice alumnus who will lead the University of Connecticut Huskies in the N.C.A.A.'s Final Four this weekend. The students are excited because a busload of girls from a Catholic school in Brooklyn have arrived for a pre-prom get-to-know-you in the gym. And President Obama is visiting the neighborhood later in the day.
There is little sense that this all-boys Catholic prep school in Harlem is teetering on the brink of bankruptcy. 
According to Stephen Fitzgerald, chairman of the board of directors, Rice needs donors to commit $5million, spread over five years, to erase a $200,000 deficit and sustain the gap between the cost of educating a student ($10,000) and the tuition ($5,750). Some of that money will be needed to renovate the school's proposed new home, an elementary school on 130th Street.
If Rice cannot secure the $5 million, and enroll 60 boys in the incoming freshman class, by May 15, it will shut down.
''Each year it's more and more of a struggle,'' Mr. Fitzgerald said.
But this year, the endowment ran out. From a peak of $3 million 10 years ago, it stands at $160,000, all of which has been committed to pending bills.
Now the board is racing against the clock to develop a five-year plan to assure potential doors that money will be invested in a sustainable school and not just a ballooning deficit.
''I've been putting Band-Aids on,'' Mr. Fitzgerald said. ''I guess I should have done a five-year plan earlier. I was an optimist.''
Rice, named after the Irish missionary and educator Edmund Rice, was founded in 1938 by the Congregation of Christian Brothers, a teaching order dedicated to educating the poor. Rice has embraced that mission: 70 percent of students receive some form of financial aid. That exacerbates the school's deficit. In past years, the Christian Brothers have bridged that deficit with $100,000 to $300,000 a year, but they can no longer afford to help Rice.
Like many other faith-based schools, Rice, which is 80 percent African-American and 20 percent Hispanic, focuses on character as much as grade point average and SAT scores.
''It's countercultural,'' Sister Patricia Ells, the head of school, said. ''It tries to think about the future, going to college, and how to get there.''
It works. Though the school is better known for its basketball stars, all of its graduates have gotten into college for the past four years.
''This is the real trophy case,'' Mr. Fitzgerald said, ignoring the NBC crew in front of the basketball awards and showing off another trophy case lined with every single college acceptance letter students have received this year.
Boys at the school refer to the school as ''a family,'' their fellow students as ''brothers'' and their teachers as ''parents.''
Sister Patricia recently told the students about the school's plight. One student suggested the school host a dance and charge $10 instead of $5. Another student proposed that the school charge the students $3 a week to have dress-down Fridays.
Three Rice seniors, speaking over the raucous din of a packed gym of recently connected teenage boys and girls, spoke eloquently about becoming ''Rice men'' -- men of responsibility, integrity, courage and empowerment. Charles Scudder, 17, pointed out that Rice students have a good reputation in Harlem. They are committed to giving back to Rice.
''I want to be an accountant and make lots of money, and if Rice is still running, I want to donate and keep this building going,'' said Devaughn Reid, 17, who plays point guard for the basketball team.
Rice might need it. The seven-story red and white brick building on West 124th Street is a money pit: Maintenance for the past two and a half years has cost $425,000.
If the school gets the money it needs, it will move to a recently closed elementary school on 130th Street that the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York agreed to lease to it. Costs would be lower there.
The 124th Street building had been a Y.W.C.A. The pool has not worked since the 1960s, Sister Patricia said. The school has a gym, but it is not regulation size, so Rice has to rent one to play games.
First, Rice needs the money. The hurdles are high. The economy is sluggish, enrollment has dropped 40 percent since 2003 and procrastination seemed to trump long-term planning when it came to the school's balance sheet.
''Rice has a long tradition of doing a lot of heavy lifting, helping disadvantaged children,'' said Patrick J. McCloskey, author of ''The Street Stops Here: A Year at a Catholic High School in Harlem,'' a book he wrote about a year that he spent observing Rice. ''Unfortunately, they haven't dealt with the financial side as well as they could have.''
As Rice lingers on the edge, it is clear that neither faith nor family can heal the school's finances. Rice has had a vacuum of leadership, churning through five heads of school in 10 years before settling last year on Sister Patricia, the first non-Christian Brother to serve in the position. Rice has failed to institutionalize fund-raising and alumni outreach: before the school hired a head of development last fall, the position had been vacant for two years.
The clock is ticking. Mr. Fitzgerald and Sister Patricia are dialing for dollars while they also scramble to secure students for the fall. Rice has 34 signed up, and another 17 have committed. It needs at least 9 more.
To many inside Rice who have seen the school threatened with extinction many times before, there is nothing to worry about.
''We have a nationally recognized basketball team with no gym, and a competitive baseball program which are gypsies,'' said Brother William J. Sherlog, a 16-year veteran of the school who teaches 9th-grade religion, 9th-grade humanities and 11th-grade American history, and also is the athletic director, the baseball coach and the bus driver.
''We are used to doing without,'' he said with an air of intoxicating calm.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Rice student's honor roll pin. All recent graduates of the school, which charges $5,750 tuition, have gone on to college.
Rice High School students in the school's gymnasium. If the school fails to meet goals for fund-raising and enrollment, it will close.
 Brother William J. Sherlog leading prayers in the chapel. He teaches three subjects, is athletic director and coaches baseball. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GRADES & GRADING (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); RELIGION (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); BASEBALL (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



36 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Gov. Cuomo's Budget: Albany's on-time budget helps the wealthy at the expense of the less fortunate

 BODY:
New York's lawmakers passed a $132.5 billion budget before the April 1 deadline, a rare event. That is, on the whole, a political win for Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who cut $10 billion out of it.
But the way he chose to do it will bring unnecessary pain to the less fortunate across the state, while allowing some of the richest residents to escape their share of the burden of a recession-era budget. Tellingly, legislators passed the 2011-12 budget behind locked doors early Thursday after angry protesters chanted in the Capitol corridors on Wednesday.
EDUCATION The final budget restores a small amount -- $230 million -- to the $23 billion allotted for state spending on K-12. Mr. Cuomo originally had wanted to cut that spending by $1.5 billion. But this is still a thoroughly regressive budget that hurts poorer school districts even more than the one initially proposed by the governor. 
Consider this comparison between the wealthy Syosset school district in Nassau County and the downtrodden district of Ilion, in economically distressed Herkimer County upstate. Under the new budget, Ilion, which runs its schools on little more than $25 million a year, will lose nearly $1 million. Syosset, with a budget of more than $188 million, will receive a smaller cut of about $760,000.
New York City schools were also particularly shortchanged because their expected allocation of state aid of $6.2 billion was cut by $840 million. A rare bit of good news in this area: the governor's proposed property tax cap is gone. It would have squeezed the poorer school districts already losing vital state money.
MEDICAID Mr. Cuomo's cuts would reduce projected state and federal spending on Medicaid by more than $5 billion, a big but manageable number to absorb. The adjustments to Medicaid are mostly fair, as recommended by the Medicaid Redesign Team earlier this year.
The final budget wisely rejects a cap on malpractice awards for pain and suffering of $250,000. The way to deal with rising malpractice insurance costs is to work harder to stop malpractice. The budget also drops proposed increases in co-payments, which could discourage the needy from seeking medical help. A cap on the state share of Medicaid spending should rein in this part of the budget.
REVENUES The major flaw is on taxes. Mr. Cuomo and Senate Republicans decided to give a tax break to millionaires while cutting money for schools, the elderly, the poor and the sick. That's inhumane and fiscally backward.
Individual New Yorkers earning more than $200,000 a year and married couples earning $300,000 pay a modest surcharge that expires in December. Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver made some effort to extend the tax and should stick to his pledge to keep trying. Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who has complained so loudly about how the state budget hurts the city, should also support this tax. The governor has said he won't approve any new tax, but this is an extension of taxes already being easily paid by the state's most fortunate citizens.
THE COURTS Mr. Cuomo and the Legislature have agreed to cut the court system by an additional $70 million, for a total of $170 million. That portends delays and layoffs and threatens much-needed plans to expand legal services for low-income New Yorkers.
Perhaps most important, this budget does not tackle the huge costs of pensions and benefits to the state, New York City and other areas. It does not grant New York City the power it needs to negotiate its own pension deals with unions, rather than leaving them up to the Legislature. And it does not scale back state laws or mandates that cost local districts too much money.
Now that this miserly budget is officially done, Mr. Cuomo should push legislators to get back to work quickly on its shortcomings -- as well as on real reform of redistricting and ethics laws.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MEDICAID (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAX RELIEF (69%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (61%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



37 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: CROSSOVER MOVE FOR A CAREER

BYLINE: By MARK VIERA

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Years before he stood on the sideline, Brad Stevens stood on a stage in St. Petersburg, Fla., speaking about employee compensation to a gathering of almost 400 of his co-workers from Eli Lilly. Not yet 25, he was an up-and-comer.
''I just remember he had a lot of polish,'' Philip Hutchison, a consultant in corporate finance at Eli Lilly, said in a telephone interview. ''He was going through the slides, standing in front, without a lectern and without any notes.'' 
Stevens's second career, as the basketball coach at Butler, has been chronicled in headlines and highlights. But he arrived in coaching after a little more than a year of conference calls, meetings and projects, a recent graduate starting in the corporate world.
Stevens was a promising marketing associate at Eli Lilly, the pharmaceutical company based in Indianapolis. Relied upon for his mathematical skills, he took on complex projects and did not need instructions twice, his former co-workers say.
Stevens wrestled with leaving his well-paying corporate job for an unpaid assistant coaching role at Butler in 2000, but his decision to leave was a transformational moment. In four seasons as Butler's coach, Stevens, 34, has taken the Bulldogs to two Final Four appearances and into living rooms across America.
''I've looked back on it many times,'' Stevens said. ''There have been many a days in coaching where I've said, What was I thinking? Because it is not the easiest job in the world. But it is very fulfilling, not because of the results you achieve but because of the relationships you build.''
Stevens started at Eli Lilly as a summer intern from DePauw University in Greencastle, Ind. He was offered a full-time job after graduating in 1999 with a degree in economics.
Stevens's responsibilities at Eli Lilly included distilling information from sales to help determine compensation for pharmaceutical representatives and to suggest whether the company should sell certain medicines to certain insurance companies or hospitals.
''I think it's the volumes and types of information you need to synthesize that can be very challenging,'' Chris Fletchall, a senior adviser of ethics and compliance at Eli Lilly, said in a telephone interview. ''Brad was a very bright guy. He was very good with analytics and numbers and coming up with proposals and plans.''
Numbers and statistical analysis have informed Stevens's basketball philosophy, too. He uses data to seek trends in his team's losses and to identify opponents' strengths and weaknesses.
''He's very interested in the numbers,'' Tom Crowley, the associate athletic director of internal operations at Butler, said in a telephone interview. ''He's very big into technology to teach the kids. He's not alone in that, but he certainly is a 21st-century coach.''
While working his 9-to-5 job, Stevens never relinquished his passion for basketball. He was a volunteer assistant at Carmel High School in suburban Indianapolis and played in a league with others from Eli Lilly.
The corporate league had competitive and noncompetitive divisions. Stevens joined the competitive division, which featured former Division I players, including the former N.B.A. guard Scott Haffner. The teams had names like Five to Give and Take No Prisoners.
Stevens played four years at DePauw, a Division III program. He limits recollections of his playing days to self-deprecating comments, and he averaged under 8 points a game in his career. In intramurals, however, Stevens was remembered as a free-shooting guard who took charge of his team.
''He was a shooter,'' Pat Bruen, one of Stevens's intramural teammates, said in a telephone interview. ''He came in and had an attitude he was going to jump in and be the scorer on our team. He wasn't bashful about putting the ball up.''
Thad Matta, who was entering his first year as Butler's coach, offered Stevens a job as a volunteer assistant after Stevens worked at Butler's summer camp. Stevens, unsure if he should accept it, had several conversations with his co-workers at Eli Lilly about the opportunity. Stevens said many of his co-workers supported his desire to go into coaching.
The issue was simple: stick with his comfortable corporate job or go down an uncertain path to pursue his basketball dreams. But his colleagues could tell that Stevens was leaning toward leaving, and he joined Butler for the 2000-1 season.
''I really thought he was going to be successful here,'' said Bruen, a senior director for strategic pricing at Eli Lilly. ''He was competing with guys who had M.B.A.'s from Harvard and Northwestern and Stanford. And he was holding his own real well.''
While Stevens might have been a success in the corporate world -- he still discusses developments in the pharmaceutical industry with former co-workers after church -- nobody at Eli Lilly could have predicted his quick ascent in coaching.
Shortly before he resigned, Stevens pulled aside Kevin Hanna, who was two levels his superior, to discuss his intention to go into coaching. Hanna said recently that he posed three questions to Stevens.
Is being a coach what you think of when you wake up, something you want more than you want to eat and sleep? Stevens said yes. Are you going to be able to feed, clothe and shelter yourself? Stevens said yes. And finally, Hanna asked, do you understand the difficulty of what you are about to try to do?
Hanna told Stevens that he would need to set realistic goals and that if he did not meet them in a given time frame, he should feel comfortable walking away from coaching.
''Obviously, that last piece of advice turned out to be unnecessary,'' Hanna said. ''This probably meets the criteria for success in that profession.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brad Stevens was a marketing associate at Eli Lilly before pursuing a more uncertain future, becoming an unpaid assistant at Butler in 2000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF HAYNES/REUTERS) (D1)
Children of the Butler staff with Coach Brad Stevens and his team after practice Friday for Saturday's Final Four game. Left, Stevens addressed fans Sunday at Butler's Hinkle Fieldhouse. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF HAYNES/REUTERS
 DARRON CUMMINGS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (76%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (75%); BASKETBALL (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS & BIOTECHNOLOGY REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); BUSINESS ETHICS (71%); ETHICS (66%); INSURANCE (60%)

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (85%)

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (85%); LLY (NYSE) (85%); LEL (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



38 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: No Agreement on Plan to Avert Shutdown

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Members of Congress remained at loggerheads Friday over a plan to avert a government shutdown, with House Republicans digging in behind a bill that would make it the law of the land to cut $61 billion from current spending, despite the fact that the Senate has already rejected that idea.
Democrats in the Senate, which ended its workweek Thursday, remained resistant to both the deeper cuts demanded by House members as well as the scores of amendments seeking to make policy changes by reining in environmental regulations, financing for family planning groups and plans to carry out the health care overhaul. 
Though both parties oppose passing any more short-term spending plans, the threat of a government shutdown continued to loom, something President Obama, speaking at a shipping facility in Landover, Md., implored lawmakers to avoid.
''It would be the height of irresponsibility to halt our economic momentum because of the same old Washington politics,'' he said. ''The American people don't want us to go to our respective corners and have the same battles we've been having for decades.''
Speaker John A. Boehner reiterated that Republicans also wanted to avoid a politically and financially costly shutdown. ''If you shut the government down, it'll end up costing more than you'll save because you interrupt contracts,'' he said at a news conference Friday. ''There are a lot of problems with the idea of shutting the government down. It is not the goal.''
Staff members of the Appropriations Committees in both the House and the Senate were expected to work through the weekend to figure out how to spread roughly $33 billion in cuts across government agencies. Lawmakers on both sides of the Rotunda and from both parties have informally agreed on that number as a target for reducing spending for the rest of this fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.
Yet in the House it remains unclear whether the more conservative members, especially the 87 Republican freshmen, would accept that figure. In the Senate, which Democrats control, it is uncertain if lawmakers would agree to deeper spending cuts, as well as rollbacks of some environmental regulations and other amendments.
''We announced the other night in our meeting with the vice president that the White House nor Senate leaders are going to accept any E.P.A. riders,'' Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, said in a conference call with reporters Friday.
With the weekend on the horizon, the House spent Friday afternoon serving up partisan warfare, with a side order of mockery. Republicans narrowly passed a bill that called for their 2011 spending bill -- one that already failed in the Senate -- to become law should the Senate fail to approve its own spending measure by April 6. The vote was 221 to 202, with no Democrats in support and 15 Republicans against it.
At one point, Representative Anthony Weiner, Democrat of New York, read aloud on the House floor from ''House Mouse, Senate Mouse,'' a children's book sold in the Congressional gift shops. The story explains how a bill becomes a law -- a process that requires both Senate and House ''mice'' to back a measure, '' 'And if enough do, if enough do, this president signs it if he likes to,' '' read Mr. Weiner, before accurately noting that the ''Senate mice'' had yet to pass the spending bill approved by the House.
Because the measure to bypass the Senate would itself require Senate approval, a highly unlikely outcome, Friday's vote was largely meaningless. But it did allow Republicans to make the point that the Senate has yet to pass its own spending bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); APPROVALS (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%); FAMILY PLANNING (56%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



39 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DOCTORS INC.; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2323 words

HEADLINE: More Physicians Say No to Endless Workdays

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

 BODY:
HONESDALE, Pa. -- Even as a girl, Dr. Kate Dewar seemed destined to inherit the small-town medical practice of her grandfather and father. At 4, she could explain how to insert a pulmonary catheter. At 12, she could suture a gash. And when she entered medical school, she and her father talked eagerly about practicing together.
But when she finishes residency this summer, Dr. Dewar, 31, will not be going home. Instead, she will take a job as a salaried emergency room doctor at a hospital in Elmira, N.Y., two hours away. An important reason is that she prefers the fast pace and interesting puzzles of emergency medicine, but another reason is that on Feb. 7 she gave birth to twins, and she cannot imagine raising them while working as hard as her father did.
''My father tried really hard to get home, but work always got in the way,'' Dr. Dewar said. ''Even on Christmas morning, we would have to wait to open our presents until Dad was done rounding at the hospital.'' 
Dr. Dewar's change of heart demonstrates the significant changes in American medicine that are transforming the way patients get care.
For decades, medicine has been dominated by fiercely independent doctors who owned their practices, worked night and day, had comfortable incomes and rarely saw their families.
But with two babies, Dr. Dewar wants a life different from her father's and grandfather's. So instead of being an entrepreneur, she will become an employee of a large corporation working 36 hours a week -- half the hours her father and grandfather worked.
Indeed, emergency room and critical-care doctors work fewer hours than any other specialty, according to a 2008 report from the federal Department of Health and Human Services.
Her decision is part of a sweeping cultural overhaul of medicine's traditional ethos that along with wrenching changes in its economics is transforming the profession. Like Dr. Dewar, many other young doctors are taking salaried jobs, working fewer hours, often going part time and even choosing specialties based on family reasons. The beepers and cellphones that once leashed doctors to their patients and practices on nights, weekends and holidays are being abandoned. Metaphorically, medicine has gone from being an individual to a team sport.
For doctors, the changes mean more control of their personal lives but less of their professional ones; for patients, care that is less personal but, as studies have shown, more proficient.
Older doctors view of these changes with considerable ambivalence, among them Dr. Dewar's 90-year-old grandfather and 61-year-old father, although both supported Dr. Kate Dewar's decisions and were thrilled about the birth of her twins.
''My son and I had deeper feelings for our patients than I think Kate will ever have,'' Dr. William Dewar II said over lunch at a diner in Honesdale, about 30 miles northeast of Scranton. Munching on a club sandwich, Dr. William Dewar III gestured toward the diner's owner, who had greeted them deferentially.
''I've had three generations of his family under my care,'' he said as a waitress brought his usual Diet Coke without being asked. ''Kate will never have that.''
In a separate interview, Dr. Kate Dewar said that treating chronic conditions like diabetes and high cholesterol -- a huge part of her father's daily life -- was not that interesting. She likened primary care to the movie ''Groundhog Day,'' in which the same boring problems recur endlessly. Needing constant stimulus -- she e-mails while watching TV -- she realized she could not practice the medicine of her forebears.
''I like it when people get better, but I'd rather it happen right in front of my eyes and not years later,'' she said. ''I like to fix stuff and then move on.''
Her attitude is part of a gradual distancing between doctors and patients. Doctors were once revered, but a host of intermediaries -- insurers, lawyers, the Internet, growing patient needs and expectations -- have intervened, to the point that many patients now see doctors as interchangeable. Younger doctors are deciding that the personal price of being at their patients' beck and call is too high, while acknowledging that teams of doctors can offer a higher quality of care. So they are embracing corporate, less entrepreneurial and less intimate roles in part for the uninterrupted family time they bring.
''Look, I'm as committed to being a doctor as anyone. I went back to work six weeks after my boys were born. I love my job,'' said Dr. Kate Dewar. ''But I was in tears walking out of the house that first day. I'm the mother of twins, and I want to be there to feed them, play games with them or open presents with them on Christmas morning. Or at least I want the option to do those things without fearing I'll be called back to the hospital.''
The pain of that first week's separation was lessened somewhat because she worked in the hospital's new pediatric emergency department. ''I felt better knowing that at least I was taking care of somebody else's babies even if I couldn't be with mine,'' she said.
Three Generations of M.D.'s
The story of the Dewars demonstrates how these trends have played out over nearly seven decades.
Dr. William Dewar II opened his practice 67 years ago at his home in Catasauqua, Pa., an Allentown suburb, with his wife, Thelma, as his lone nurse and assistant. He delivered babies and set broken bones. Sick patients showed up on his doorstep at all hours, with some sleeping over. When they needed to be hospitalized, Dr. Dewar oversaw their care. Patients paid cash -- $2 for an office visit and $3 for a house call, fees that covered most needed medicines.
Thelma Dewar handled the bills and laboratory tests, often by cooking urine samples on the stove before analysis.
''I loved my practice. Totally loved it,'' Dr. Dewar said. ''You were in touch with the patients. They were part of your family.''
The culture of medicine at the time was decidedly macho. Residents routinely worked 120 hours a week, often staying at the hospital for days at a time. Indeed, the term ''residency'' comes from the first such program at Johns Hopkins University, established around the start of the 20th century, where doctors lived in a dormitory next to the hospital, a monastic life inimical to women who wanted children. As the residency requirement took hold nationally, the share of female doctors, already low, fell further. Dr. William Osler, the founder of the residency program, celebrated such sacrifices.
''What about the wife and babies if you have them? Leave them,'' Dr. Osler wrote. ''Heavy are the responsibilities to yourself, to the profession and to the public. Your wife will be glad to bear her share of the sacrifices you make.''
After 25 years in Catasauqua, the Dewars moved to the Honesdale area, and their oldest son joined the practice -- which by then had moved to an office building. But working outside the home meant that Dr. William Dewar III saw less of his children than his father had seen of his -- though he attended more of their sporting events. He tried to make a point of eating dinner with the family, but often failed because his sickest patients spent more time in the hospital as fewer people died at home. Even when he did make it home for the meal, he often left afterward. He was on call seven days a week, limiting vacations.
''We always joked that as soon as Dad's butt hit the chair for dinner, his beeper would go off,'' Dr. Kate Dewar said.
A Changing Field
But even as the two men tried to keep their practice the same, the world around them kept shifting. Their patients' medical needs grew steadily, and specialists began to take over the more complicated procedures.
After his father retired at 75, Dr. Dewar merged his practice with those of four other doctors, eventually moving into a large building that once housed the town's bowling alley. Thousands of paper records occupy much of the building's space, and 35 employees handle the billing and other clerical functions.
And the burden of trying to be all things to all of his patients became unmanageable. In 2006, after Wayne Memorial Hospital hired hospitalists -- doctors who specialize in taking care of hospitalized patients -- Dr. Dewar finally gave up hospital rounds.
For his hospitalized patients, the change meant putting their trust in a doctor who knew them less intimately but was more available and more adept at hospital care. ''My patients are getting better care now in the hospital,'' Dr. Dewar said.
And the change saved him hours of work each week. ''It meant getting off the hamster wheel,'' he said.
In her third year of medical school, Kate Dewar shadowed clinic doctors treating patients with everyday illnesses. It was just the kind of medicine her father practices: advising the obese to lose weight and the smokers to quit, and prescribing cholesterol and hypertension medicines again and again. ''I hated it, and I felt terribly guilty,'' she said. She called her father and broke the news that she wanted to work in a hospital. He was very supportive, she said.
Her father also remembered being both envious and disappointed. ''On the one hand, it bothers me that the generation of doctors that my daughter is in doesn't work as many hours and isn't willing to do the stuff that I did,'' he said. ''On the other hand, I'm almost a little jealous.''
Such mixed feelings are common among older doctors, many of whom have been unable to sell or even give away their practices because younger doctors are not willing to work the hours required. Indeed, Dr. William Dewar III's practice has hired nurse practitioners recently, in part because it cannot recruit doctors.
Merritt Hawkins, a top doctor recruitment firm, reported that 51 percent of the positions it filled in the past year were for hospitals, up from 14 percent eight years ago. And even a growing share of the jobs the company filled in private practices included income guarantees from hospitals. Young doctors surveyed by Merritt Hawkins listed quality of life well above finances as the most important factor in their job searches, and just 1 percent said they were willing to practice alone. Many young doctors will not take jobs that require them to be on call.
Almost every hospital in the country has vastly expanded its medical staff. Lehigh Valley Health Network in Allentown, where Dr. Kate Dewar currently works, has gone in seven years from 100 to 500 employed doctors.
A Different Pace
A day spent with Dr. Dewar in the emergency room of Lehigh Valley Hospital-Cedar Crest had the feel of an episode of ''E.R.,'' far different from ''Marcus Welby, M.D.,'' which her father grew up with. The attending physician was Dr. Rezarta Lloyd. The two women had complete control over a section of the emergency room reserved for the most serious cases, and there were many that day: a young woman with a deep gash on her hand that Dr. Dewar stitched closed, an older woman with suffocating fluid around her heart, and a 35-year-old man with a high fever, abdominal pains and an altered mental state.
The two doctors ordered a CT scan of the man's midsection, and they stood next to a computer terminal and toggled through images of his internal organs, deeply concerned.
''Everything looks so inflamed,'' Dr. Dewar said as Dr. Lloyd nodded. ''Look at the stomach. Look at the wall there. What is wrong with this guy?''
The more challenging the case, the better the women liked it. Each tended to collect rare and difficult interventions like merit badges. Standing beside the display screen, Dr. Dewar told a story about having a patient whom she thought might need a tracheotomy, a rarely done procedure in which a tube is put into a patient's throat to prevent suffocation. She had a ''trach kit'' placed in the patient's room just in case.
While attending to another patient, Dr. Dewar noticed a commotion outside the patient's room and yelled at her colleague on duty, playfully threatening bodily harm to anyone else daring to do ''her'' tracheotomy.
The tracheotomy story was interrupted by another phone call from one of the hospital's radiology technologists, whom Drs. Dewar and Lloyd had sparred with all day. The two had sent a patient whose damaged eye was bleeding, leaking fluid and bulging. The doctors had described the patient's condition in the order they submitted for the CT scan, but the technologists rarely seemed to read those instructions closely, Dr. Dewar complained.
''No,'' she said. ''We're looking for a globe rupture.''
Then a 22-year-old man showed up with flu symptoms. Dr. Dewar, pregnant at the time, kept her distance while Dr. Lloyd went to his bedside and, later in the day, prescribed antivirals.
''My big fear is patients with the flu,'' Dr. Dewar explained. ''Pregnant women were the ones who died from H1N1, so Dr. Lloyd protects me by seeing them herself. I had my flu shot and all that, but if I don't have to risk it, I won't.''
Pregnant residents are another sign of medicine's shifting culture. Residency hours and practices were once so grueling that few doctors deliberately became parents during those years. But in an effort to reduce fatigue-related errors, residency hours were reduced in 2003 to 80 per week. Last year at Johns Hopkins, the birthplace of the residency program, more than a third of the women in one internal medicine residency program became pregnant or were the mothers of young children -- an outcome that would have been unimaginable to William Osler.
Still, carrying twins on a job that requires hours of walking between rooms was not easy. On a nine-hour shift in her 29th week, she drank three liters of water and snacked constantly on cheese crackers.
But when her shift ended, Dr. Dewar went home and put up her feet. And no pager threatened her rest -- something her father has rarely experienced.
Doctors Inc.: Articles in this series are examining recent shifts in medical care. To read a previous article, go to

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Kate Dewar, daughter of a doctor, chose work in an emergency room over private practice. (A1)
Dr. Kate Dewar in the emergency room at Lehigh Valley Hospital in Allentown, Pa. Work in the E.R. varies, but the hours are fixed.
 Dr. Dewar, her father and grandfather, doctors too, at her graduation, and above, at a local diner. ''My son and I had deeper feelings for our patients,'' the older man said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); CHRISTMAS (67%); SPORTS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (78%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



40 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: School Official Finds Retirement Is Just A Higher Pay Grade

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- Carlos Bejarano, a local schools superintendent with more than 30 years in education, is nearing retirement, but his plans include neither long afternoons on the golf course nor extended road trips with the family. His retirement, in fact, will closely resemble the workaday life he has been living.
Mr. Bejarano is one of an increasing number of public employees here who are retiring one day and going right back to the same jobs the next, enabling them to supplement their income with retirement benefits without really retiring at all. The practice, restricted under Arizona law but common nonetheless because of loopholes, has come under fire recently from critics who say such ''double dipping'' is endangering the financial health of state pension funds. 
''It's faux retirement,'' said Byron Schlomach, an expert on pensions at the Goldwater Institute, a conservative-leaning public policy group, who is critical of the practice. ''There have always been people who have come out of retirement to help out, but it's much more systemic now. People are figuring out, 'Hey, there's a way to take advantage of the system.' ''
Mr. Bejarano, 58, the superintendent of the Isaac School District in western Phoenix, is an example of a nonretiring retiree. He intends to officially give up working on June 30 and then go back the next day to the same job as a consultant for a private education firm.
Many who retire and then immediately go back to work take lower salaries, giving a financial advantage to the school district or other public entity where they work. In Mr. Bejarano's case, there will be no pay cut.
That he will receive the same salary and benefits of about $150,000 a year, along with a pension of about $100,000, has angered many local residents because Mr. Bejarano's own financial restructuring comes as the struggling school district he oversees is planning to lay off staff members and close two schools.
''How dare you!'' Rebecca Osborn fumed at a recent public hearing on the school closings as Mr. Bejarano looked on in silence.
The school district, which has about 7,000 students in kindergarten through eighth grade, sees the math differently. Sure, Mr. Bejarano will take home considerably more under the deal, but the district itself will end up paying him less, officials say.
They say that Mr. Bejarano is not overpaid, as some critics contend. A 2010 survey by the Arizona School Boards Association of 180 school districts and charter schools across the state found the average superintendent's salary to be just over $105,000, putting Mr. Bejarano's, not counting benefits, somewhere in the middle of the pack.
''It's a real win for the district,'' said its spokesman, Abedon Fimbres, who estimates the district will save about $12,000 annually since it will no longer have to contribute to Mr. Bejarano's pension. A contracting firm, Educational Services Inc., will hire Mr. Bejarano for the same job he has now.
Mr. Fimbres praised Mr. Bejarano as having helped turn around student achievement in the district, which serves a largely blue-collar, immigrant community. A Phoenix native who graduated from Arizona State University and Northern Arizona University, Mr. Bejarano has risen in the ranks at various local school districts, from teacher to principal to assistant superintendent, until he joined the Isaac School District several years ago as superintendent.
The district's financial state is particularly dire now. The school closings are part of an austerity budget plan the district is proposing to prepare for an expected slash in education money from the state. Aggravating the problem is declining enrollment caused by families moving out of Phoenix because of the economic crisis as well as the state's aggressive crackdown on illegal immigration.
Arizona expects a $1 billion budget shortfall next year, and schools are bracing for a substantial hit to their budgets, although no one knows for sure yet how much assistance they will lose. ''Let's say the state really becomes vicious and took 10 percent,'' Jeffrey Gadd, assistant superintendent of business services, said as he outlined a budget plan that he predicted would require paring to the bone.
The idea that the superintendent will be earning significantly more than before just as employees are being furloughed and laid off and students are reshuffled to more distant schools has infuriated some in the community. But the practice of double dipping is not uncommon in this state, as a recent investigation of the practice by The Arizona Republic made clear.
Joseph Helms, another resident angry at Mr. Bejarano's deal who spoke at the public hearing, told school officials they were being shortsighted in thinking they were saving money. ''You are contributing to the very state budget deficit that is going to cut your budget,'' he said.
But the district says it is playing by the rules by making Mr. Bejarano a consultant and not violating a state law forbidding public employees from drawing a pension if they return to the same job within a year.
The City of Phoenix was equally inventive when it allowed Jack Harris to retire as police chief in 2007 and then come back about two weeks later in the newly created position of public safety manager. His responsibilities were expanded, city officials say, but he worked out of the same office, held the same rank and continued to be the top administrator of the Police Department.
In 2009, he was sued by Judicial Watch, a Washington-based conservative legal group, on behalf of a group of current and former police officers who say he violated state law. The city has agreed to cover Mr. Harris's legal bills.
Neither Mr. Harris nor Mr. Bejarano responded to requests for comment.
Mr. Harris was recently stripped of his direct oversight of the Police Department, but that was a disciplinary move after it was discovered that kidnapping statistics sent by his department to the Obama administration to obtain a federal grant were flawed. That controversy continues, prompting some of the chief's critics to suggest that he consider the more traditional kind of retirement, in which one actually retires.
Mr. Harris is having none of that.
Referring to the insignia on his police uniform, he defiantly told reporters asking whether he might be pressured into a real retirement: ''Anyone who wants these stars can come and get them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carlos Bejarano
 Carlos Bejarano with his secretary, Grace Vega. Mr. Bejarano will make more money at his job after quitting it than before. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA SEGALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) GRAPHIC: Making Ends Meet: Before Retirement JOB TITLE: Schools superintendent SALARY: $130,000 (statewide average for a superintendent is $105,000, higher in the Phoenix area) CAR ALLOWANCE: $8,400 TAX-DEFERRED ANNUITY: $8,000 COMMUNITY-AFFAIRS ALLOWANCE: $3,000 TOTAL $149,400 After Retirement JOB TITLE: Consultant/schools superintendent SALARY $130,000 CAR ALLOWANCE $8,400 TAX-DEFERRED ANNUITY $8,000 COMMUNITY-AFFAIRS ALLOWANCE $3,000 HEALTH INSURANCE BONUS: $11,000 PENSION: $104,600 TOTAL: $265,000 (Sources: The Arizona Republic and the Isaac School District) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%) ARIZONA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



41 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: If Home Prices Counted in Inflation

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
A FEW years ago, the Federal Reserve remained complacent about inflation even as a housing bubble inflated. The Fed did not take the kind of action that would have seemed reasonable if it had been alarmed by rising prices. 
Now the inflation rate is starting to turn up, and there are warnings that the Fed may need to tighten monetary policy even if the stumbling economic recovery does not accelerate. But home prices, which had seemed to be stabilizing a year ago, are falling again.
Until 1983, the Consumer Price Index included housing costs. But then the index was changed. No longer would home prices directly affect the index. Instead, the Bureau of Labor Statistics makes a calculation of ''owners' equivalent rent,'' which is based on the trend of costs to rent a home, not to buy one. The current approach, the B.L.S. says, ''measures the value of shelter to owner-occupants as the amount they forgo by not renting out their homes.'' The C.P.I. is not supposed to include investments, and owning a house has aspects of both investment and consumption.
Whatever the reasonableness of that approach, the practical effect of the change was to keep the housing bubble from affecting reported inflation rates in the years leading up to the peak in home prices. It is at least possible that the Federal Reserve would have acted differently had the change never been made.
The accompanying charts represent an effort to put together an alternate index of inflation, one that includes home prices rather than the owner's equivalent rate. The effort is far from precise, in large part because the old index was based not just on purchase prices but also on changing mortgage interest rates and on changing property taxes, while this one is based solely on an index of home prices. But it nonetheless gives an approximation of what inflation would have looked like had home prices remained in the index.
The effect is particularly notable in the core index, which excludes volatile energy and food prices, and which the Fed monitors closely. In 2004, when home prices were climbing at a rate of almost 10 percent a year -- more than four times the increase in rents -- the core index would have been over 5 percent had home prices been included. Instead, the reported core rate was just 2.2 percent.
The Fed did raise rates in 2004, although perhaps more slowly than seems appropriate in hindsight. The increases then stunned Wall Street, which might not have happened had investors been watching an inflation rate that included home prices.
In the last few months, the two markets have again diverged, but in the opposite way. From October 2010 through January, home prices as measured by an index kept by Federal Housing Finance Agency fell at an annual rate of 12.4 percent, while the government's calculation of owners' equivalent rent shows it rising at an annual rate of 1.5 percent. Home prices have not yet been reported for February, but the upward trend in rental prices continued.
Inflation rates may have been understated for years when home prices were rising much more rapidly than rental rates. At the time, the discrepancy might have seemed to be an indication of rising speculation and prompted Fed concern. Now, it is possible that inflation will be overstated precisely because speculative excesses are being purged from the housing market.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Since 1983, the Consumer Price Index in the United States has excluded house prices. Instead, it includes ''owners' equivalent rent,'' which is based on rent costs. Had house prices been included, inflation figures would have appeared to be much higher during the housing bubble, and lower after the bubble burst. In recent months, rental costs have begun to recover, but housing prices have started to fall again. (Sources: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Federal Housing Finance Agency and Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (94%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TRENDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); CONSUMPTION (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); FOOD PRICES (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



42 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Miss Manners Would Approve; a Judge Didn't

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE; Kristen Millares Young contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Saying ''please'' and ''thank you'' is a virtue, but for a robber in Seattle, politeness went only so far.
A judge on Friday sentenced Gregory Paul Hess to 60 months in state prison for robbing a Shell station in February, ignoring the recommendation of the prosecutor and defense attorney, who argued that Mr. Hess's civility should win him the shortest possible sentence: 51 months.
Mr. Hess had been nicknamed the ''polite robber'' after a video of the robbery appeared on YouTube. 
The video, recorded by surveillance cameras at the station, showed Mr. Hess, 65, asking the station owner, ''Could you do me a favor? Could you empty that till for me, please?''
Drawing a pellet gun from his waistband, Mr. Hess said, ''Sir, I'm robbing you.'' He then apologized for taking the money and said he needed it to pay his rent and other bills. He thanked the gas station owner profusely and promised to pay him back ''if I ever get on my feet again, sir.''
The video gave Mr. Hess his moment of fame and helped the police identify him. His willingness to take responsibility for the crime -- he pleaded guilty to first-degree robbery -- made a favorable impression on the prosecutor.
But in delivering the sentence, Sharon Armstrong, a King County Superior Court judge, said, ''I would like to be able to follow the joint recommendation, but I can't. Mr. Hess, you committed robbery with what appeared to be a deadly weapon.''
She said that giving Mr. Hess a sentence in the midpoint of the range -- 51 to 68 months -- was enough to acknowledge his good attitude.
Kevin Dolan, the public defender, said his client's crime was ''largely, I think, a result of the economy.''
Mr. Hess told Elizabeth Mount, a law student intern who works with Mr. Dolan, that he had a degree from a culinary school -- he likes to bake croissants -- and that had enrolled in a hospitality management program at Seattle University. But he despaired of finding work, he told her, because jobs were scarce and he had a criminal record: he served five years in federal prison for robbing five banks in Seattle and was still under federal supervision at the time of the robbery.
''He's such a nice guy,'' Ms. Mount said. ''You kind of root for him because he's very optimistic.''
She said she thought hospitality management ''would be a great career for him because he's so polite and accommodating.''
The gas station robbery, Mr. Hess told Ms. Mount, was a spur-of-the-moment act, inspired by his fear that he would be evicted from his apartment. He told investigators that he got $200 from the robbery. He used part of it to pay a cellphone bill and buy food and gas, and he deposited $90 in a savings account, according to court documents.
On a subconscious level, he told Ms. Mount, maybe he wanted to be caught. The surveillance cameras in the Shell station were obvious, and he left a fingerprint on the counter. When the police arrived at his door, he greeted them by saying, ''I'm the one you are looking for.''
''I did everything but smile for the camera,'' Mr. Hess told Ms. Mount, adding that he confessed because he is a Roman Catholic, and ''part of being Catholic is the confession aspect.''
John Henry, the gas station owner, is also a religious man. A deacon at St. Mary's Coptic Orthodox Church, he said his faith kept him from panicking during the robbery.
''When God wants to take your life, he will take it,'' said Mr. Henry, who came to the United States from Egypt 19 years ago. ''If you believe that, you can take it easy and you have peace.''
He said he felt bad for Mr. Hess and thought it was a pity that he had not been taught better survival skills during his previous incarceration.
Mr. Henry said he has also suffered the effects of the recession. He works six days a week, 10 hours a day. A new gas station across the street is cutting into his business, he said, and he is struggling to stay afloat.
Mr. Dolan said Friday that even though the judge ignored the sentencing recommendation, Mr. Hess was lucky.
''That's about as good as it gets when you've committed a crime that five million people have seen,'' he said.
He noted that Mr. Hess was also fortunate that the robbery had not been deemed a ''third strike,'' which would have sent him to prison for life without parole. ''He'll be out before he's 70,'' he said.
Even Mr. Hess seemed philosophical about his fate.
''I know what I did was wrong, and I did it anyway,'' he said. ''I deserve what I got.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gregory Paul Hess
 After a surveillance video showing Gregory Paul Hess robbing a Shell station appeared on YouTube, he was nicknamed the ''polite robber.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (90%); SENTENCING (90%); ROBBERY (90%); JUDGES (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); PRISONS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); ADVICE COLUMNS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (71%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (61%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (61%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



43 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Growth Could Stump Obama's Critics

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.

 BODY:
LANDOVER, Md.
PRESIDENT OBAMA has not had a lot of good news in a term defined by assorted crises. But on Friday he reported the ''good news'' about job growth in March to an appreciative audience at a United Parcel Service shipping facility here -- and did so with a bit more of a celebratory air, and less caution, than in the past.
After 12 months of up-and-down job creation, the significant increase in March suggested that maybe, just maybe, the economy was gaining enough strength to grow and bring unemployment down substantially this year. 
And as the unemployment rate ticked down, the hopes of Mr. Obama and his party ticked up: perhaps by the approaching election year they could claim vindication for the stimulus policies Democrats have enacted, or at least dodge the sort of blame that Republicans so effectively stuck them with last November in the midterm elections.
At the same time it has given Democrats new ammunition to argue that Republican efforts to cut spending could hurt the recovery just as it is gaining traction, and that forcing a government shutdown could put more people out of work.
''You should know that keeping the economy going and making sure jobs are available is the first thing I think about when I wake up in the morning,'' Mr. Obama said. ''It's the last thing I think about when I go to bed each night.''
No doubt. Few metrics are as critical to re-election as the employment rate. Even at 8.8 percent in March, the lowest level in two years, the jobless rate is still high in political as well as economic terms, and it is not expected to fall significantly before November 2012.
The administration does not project the rate dropping below 8 percent until 2013. It was 7.8 percent when Mr. Obama took office after the recession began, and rose to a peak of 10.1 percent in October 2009 as the economy shed about 700,000 jobs a month.
The White House and the Democratic Party are banking on voters focusing not on the unemployment rate, but on a trend of job growth. That assumes, of course, the trend continues.
''While today's jobs numbers are headed in the right direction, most Americans believe the economy is still pretty seriously off-track, making the jobs issue still a challenging one for the president,'' said Neil Newhouse, a Republican pollster. ''Looming on the nation's economic horizon is the after-effects of the Japanese tsunami and the Middle East unrest, hardly the kind of stable economic environment needed for significant U.S. job growth.''
The United States Chamber of Commerce, in its statement noting the improved employment picture, emphasized caution given the global crises.
''The outlook for the international economy has worsened recently,'' the chamber said. ''If these problems were to spill over to the U.S. economy, causing growth to slow below its potential rate of growth of between 2.5-2.75 percent, they could upset the modest job gains we've seen thus far.''
A year ago, the effects of a European debt crisis set back the administration's hopes that a full, self-sustaining recovery was under way. Last fall, Republicans won elections on the argument that Keynesian-style economic stimulus measures had failed, and that it was time to try an austerity policy of big cuts in government spending.
On Friday, Republican leaders in Congress pressed that policy argument even as they welcomed the new jobs report.
''Washington needs to do more to end the uncertainty plaguing job creators,'' John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio and the speaker of the House, said. ''That means getting control of government spending, ending the threat of tax hikes, removing regulatory obstacles to job growth and approving stalled trade agreements that would open new markets for American exports.''
Since Republicans took control of the House in January, they have forced Democrats to agree to $10 billion in cuts from current spending and are seeking roughly $50 billion more. They will soon unveil plans for deeper cuts in 2012 and beyond.
Yet the potential for such deep cuts in domestics spending recently has caused a number of analysts at major corporations and economic forecasting firms to shave their projections of economic growth.
''This sign of jobs growth shows the president's economic plan is starting to work,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. ''We should stick with it, and quickly reach a budget deal to avert a government shutdown that would risk these fragile gains.''
Many voters are not persuaded that the president's policies are working; in nonpartisan national polls, slight majorities have disapproved of his handling of the economy. Future monthly unemployment rates will be central to whether those numbers improve as he seeks another term.
''If the economy continues to improve over the next year, the fact is it will strengthen President Obama's political position,'' said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster. ''And,'' he added, ''if the economy slows down in the next year, the Republicans put themselves in a position to take a good share of the blame for that, because now a good case could be made that the president had the jobs numbers moving in the right direction until the Republicans pushed through their own fiscal policies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, talking to workers about the jobs report, could point to growth as vindicating Democrats' policies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TRENDS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (57%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



44 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Cuts Leave Patients With Medicaid Cards, but No Specialist to See

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
LAFAYETTE, La. -- Eight-year-old Draven Smith was expelled from school last year for disruptive behavior, and he is being expelled again this year. But his mother and his pediatrician cannot find a mental health specialist to treat him because he is on Medicaid, and the program, which provides health coverage for the poor, pays doctors so little that many refuse to take its patients.
The problem is common here and across the country, especially as states, scrambling to balance their budgets, look for cuts in Medicaid, which is one of their biggest expenditures. And it presents the Obama administration with a major challenge, since the new federal health care law relies heavily on Medicaid to cover many people who now lack health insurance.
''Having a Medicaid card in no way assures access to care,'' said Dr. James B. Aiken, an emergency physician in New Orleans. 
Nicole R. Dardeau, 46, a nurse in Opelousas, La., in the heart of Cajun country, can attest to that. She said she could not work because of unbearable pain in her right arm. Doctors have found three herniated discs in her neck and recommended surgery, but cannot find a surgeon to take her as a Medicaid patient.
From her pocketbook, she pulls an insurance card issued by the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals.
''My Medicaid card is useless for me right now,'' Ms. Dardeau said over lunch. ''It's a useless piece of plastic. I can't find an orthopedic surgeon or a pain management doctor who will accept Medicaid.''
Medicaid, which is paid for jointly by the federal and state governments, is the subject of an intense debate in Washington over how to make it more efficient as Congress addresses the budget deficit and the growing federal debt.
But for now the administration is counting on Medicaid to play a vital role in expanding access to care under the law President Obama signed last year. The program is already a major presence here, paying for 70 percent of births in Louisiana. State health officials estimate that the Medicaid program will grow by more than 40 percent as a result of the federal health law, with the addition of 467,000 new recipients to 1.1 million now on the rolls.
''How can an already overtaxed Medicaid system handle such a huge influx of people?'' asked Dr. Michael A. Felton, a family doctor in Church Point, La., near Lafayette.
It is a question being asked in many states. With the expansion of Medicaid to cover nearly all people under 65 with incomes up to 133 percent of the official poverty level (up to $29,330 a year for a family of four), Medicaid will soon be the nation's largest insurer. It accounts for almost half of the increase in coverage expected under Mr. Obama's health law, but has received less attention than other parts of the law regulating private insurance.
The Congressional Budget Office predicts that average monthly Medicaid enrollment, now 56 million, will rise to 71 million by 2016, with another five million people added to the rolls in the five years after that.
Like many states, Louisiana has been struggling with a fiscal crisis. To hold down costs, it has cut Medicaid payments to doctors, dentists, hospitals and other health care providers several times in the last two years. Many providers report that the cuts, taken together, total 15 percent to 20 percent.
Louisiana officials said the cuts were necessary for two reasons: to avoid a budget deficit in the Medicaid program and to comply with a state law that limits Medicaid spending to amounts appropriated by the State Legislature.
For patients like Draven Smith, whose mother said his behavior problems stemmed from attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, the result is lack of access to doctors, especially specialists. For Draven's pediatrician, Dr. Rachel Z. Chatters in Lake Charles, La., caring for poor children is a mission. About 80 percent of her patients are on Medicaid. It is, she said, frustrating to beg and plead with other doctors to see Medicaid recipients.
''I devote one afternoon a week, every Wednesday afternoon, to trying to find specialists for my patients -- a pulmonologist for children with chronic persistent asthma, a neurologist for children with seizures or developmental delays, a psychiatrist for children with serious mental health problems, a hematologist for patients with sickle cell disease,'' Dr. Chatters said.
Draven's mother, Ana M. Smith, said: ''I have tried for more than a year to find a child psychiatrist or psychologist to get Draven evaluated, but the mental health professionals in this area have told me they absolutely do not take Medicaid. If Draven could get the help he needs, I believe it would be unbelievably beneficial to him.''
Some uninsured people will surely receive better care when they gain Medicaid coverage, doctors say. The new health law calls for a temporary two-year increase in Medicaid payments for some primary care services, but this does not affect specialists.
With the expansion of Medicaid in 2014, Louisiana officials expect to enroll three groups: 260,000 newly eligible parents and childless adults, 20,000 parents now eligible but not enrolled and 187,000 adults and children who drop private coverage and sign up for Medicaid.
Bruce D. Greenstein, secretary of the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals, said, ''We have a hard time finding specialists for Medicaid enrollees.''
Mr. Greenstein said the state expected to improve care and save money by enrolling most Medicaid recipients in managed care, an approach adopted by many states in recent years. In return for fixed monthly fees paid by the state, private health plans would coordinate the care of Medicaid patients, using networks of providers.
In passing the new health law, Congress wanted to make sure current Medicaid recipients would not lose coverage. Under the law, states generally cannot roll back Medicaid eligibility, but they can cut Medicaid in other ways -- by reducing provider payment rates or by eliminating optional benefits.
About 20 states cut Medicaid payment rates for doctors last year, according to a survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation. At least 16 governors have proposed rate reductions this year for health care providers.
Gov. John Kitzhaber of Oregon, a Democrat, proposed cutting Medicaid payment rates for doctors, dentists, hospitals and nursing homes by 19 percent. Christine Miles, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kitzhaber, said his priority was to preserve eligibility.
In Illinois, Gov. Pat Quinn, a Democrat, has proposed reducing Medicaid reimbursement rates by 6 percent for hospitals and nursing homes.
Gov. Brian Sandoval of Nevada, a Republican, has proposed cutting Medicaid rates by 5 percent for hospitals, 15 percent for nonprimary care doctors and 25 percent for dentists.
In South Dakota, Gov. Dennis Daugaard, a Republican, just signed a budget bill cutting Medicaid rates for doctors, dentists, hospitals and nursing homes -- even primary care physicians and pediatricians.
States have broad discretion in setting Medicaid payment rates. Federal law sets standards, but they are rather vague. Rates are supposed to be ''consistent with efficiency, economy and quality of care,'' and sufficient to ensure that services are available to Medicaid recipients at least to the same extent as to the general population in the area.
In a few states, Medicaid recipients and providers have blocked cuts or secured higher reimbursement through litigation. But in many states, the promise of equal access remains unfulfilled.
Dr. Kim A. Hardey, an obstetrician-gynecologist in Lafayette, said he received about $1,000 from the Louisiana Medicaid program for providing prenatal care and delivery for a full-term pregnancy, compared with $2,400 from private insurance.
With the expansion of Medicaid eligibility, he said, more of his patients will be on Medicaid, and fewer will have private insurance, which helps offset the financial losses doctors sustain on their Medicaid business.
Already, Dr. Hardey said, many of his patients have jobs with private insurance but switch to Medicaid when they become pregnant, avoiding premiums, deductibles and co-payments.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Rachel Chatters, right, with Ana Smith, says she begs specialists to see Medicaid patients.
 Ms. Smith said she has tried for more than a year to find a psychiatrist to treat her son Draven, 8, who is on Medicaid. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); NURSES & NURSING (77%); FAMILY (77%); FAMILY PRACTICE (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); HOSPITALS (76%); HEALTH CARE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); MENTAL HEALTH (73%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); ORTHOPEDICS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



45 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: U.S. POSTS A GAIN OF 216,000 JOBS, A LIFT FOR OBAMA

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
The United States economy showed signs of kicking into gear in March, adding 216,000 jobs and prompting President Obama to proclaim a corner finally turned.
The president and his fellow Democrats pointed to the latest jobs report on Friday, and to an unemployment rate that fell a touch to 8.8 percent, as evidence that their policies, like stimulus spending and the payroll tax cut, were working. All of this, they made clear, could become ammunition in their showdown with House Republicans, who have spoken of cutting deeply into the federal budget and have threatened a government shutdown.
An emboldened Mr. Obama spoke of the political implications before several hundred workers at a United Parcel Service shipping center in Landover, Md.
''If these budget negotiations break down, we could end up having to shut down the government, just at a time when the economy is starting to recover,'' Mr. Obama told the workers. ''So given the encouraging news we received today on jobs, it would be the height of irresponsibility to halt our economic momentum because of the same old Washington politics.'' 
Administration officials hit the same points over and over on Friday. The private sector has added, on average, 188,000 jobs in the first three months of 2011, and 1.8 million jobs since the recovery began. March was the 12th consecutive month of private sector job growth, and the stock market moved slightly higher on the report from the Labor Department.
Manufacturing continued its unlikely -- if still modest -- revival in March, adding 17,000 jobs. Health care added 37,000 jobs in the month, and professional and business services added 78,000, although 37 percent of that came from increases in temporary help. The job figures for January and February were revised slightly higher, as well.
Yet March's numbers also offered more than a few cautionary signs that the national economy was not cured of all its ills. The ranks of Americans who have been without a job for 27 weeks or more remain painfully high, at more than six million. And the labor force has shrunk steadily since the beginning of the recession, to a point that just 64.2 percent of adults are either in the work force or looking for a job. That is the lowest labor participation rate in a quarter-century.
For several months now, economists have expressed hope that unemployed Americans will take heart from signs of new hiring and re-enter the work force. That did not happen in March; the labor participation rate was unchanged.
''It is still a very inhospitable market for unemployed workers,'' said Heidi Shierholz, an economist with the liberal Economic Policy Institute. ''We still have five unemployed workers for every opening, and those are desperate times.''
The average workweek, too, was unchanged, at 34.3 hours, and average hourly earnings remained static. Such indicators point to an economy with much slack demand, hints of deflation and little upward pressure on wages. Real earnings, the Brookings Institution noted on Friday, have fallen 1.1 percent since last October.
''With excess supply of labor at very high levels, it is unlikely that we are going to see any meaningful acceleration in wage rates anytime soon,'' Joshua Shapiro, an economist at MFR Inc., said Friday morning.
Though the overall unemployment rate has fallen to 8.8 percent -- from 8.9 percent in February and from a peak of 10.1 percent in late 2009 -- the rate remains especially high for blacks, at 15.5 percent, and for Latinos, at 11.3 percent. (In 2007, black unemployment stood at 8.3 percent, and was 5.6 percent for Latinos.)
In addition, local governments are experiencing a months-long bleed-off. Local governments have shed 416,000 jobs since an employment peak in September 2008, and dropped 15,000 jobs in March.
Teenage unemployment remains off the charts and long-term unemployment is only a tenth of a point below its record peak, said Heather Boushey, senior economist at the Center for American Progress, a liberal group. ''Although, after years of watching things get worse, it's good to see overall employment growing.''
The tension between Ms. Boushey's two views of the economy, its deep problems and distinct signs of hope, can be seen in a Bureau of Labor Statistics summary that breaks the economy into 16 sectors. It shows construction workers with a 20 percent unemployment rate, and hotel and leisure workers at 13.2 percent. Yet the jobless rate has dropped in 13 of the 16 sectors since March 2010.
It also poses a policy conundrum for the Federal Reserve, whose governors will meet in April to consider their interest rate policy. How should the board view the economy: Is the economic engine at last beginning to purr, in which case some argue for throttling back and raising rates later this year? Or are the weaknesses still pronounced enough that it makes sense to keep flooding the motor with inexpensive money?
The Obama administration takes the view that it's too early to raise rates. Recoveries from financial shocks as severe as that of 2008 are often long and sluggish, and they argue against risking another setback.
Another question is what the midterm future augurs. Will jobs continue to expand through the spring, and with enough vigor -- 300,000 a month, say -- to substantially reduce the unemployment rate? As Ms. Shierholz said, if the economy adds 200,000 jobs a month, it will be 2019 before it reaches the employment rate that preceded this recession.
Many economists speak optimistically of the coming few months. ''The private sector of the economy has been the locomotive pulling the economy forward,'' said Sung Won Sohn, an economics professor at California State University, Channel Islands. ''Record exports, better-than-expected retail sales and the increase in business capital spending are part of the good news.''
But some grow wary after that. The international storm clouds are many -- spectacular debt problems in Europe, uprisings sweeping the oil-rich Middle East, and Japan's many crises. The worry is that these ills might press on consumer and business confidence.
''The first half of this year will be the best job market that we'll see in this whole expansion,'' said David Levy of the Jerome Levy Forecasting Center. ''After that, and looking toward 2012, the situation is questionable.''
For now, the United States economy weathered last month's global storms and still gained a healthy number of jobs. Austan Goolsbee, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, sounded content to leave it at that, for now. ''We don't totally know the answer'' about the effects of global turbulence, he said. ''For now, it's a good sign that you had winds in March that appeared to put a hit on consumer confidence and yet that did not slow the engine.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2011; April 5, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article mistakenly described the number of long-term unemployed -- those jobless for 27 weeks or more -- as the highest in a generation.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about the jobs report for March misstated a statistic from a Brookings Institution analysis of the report. Real earnings have fallen 1.1 percent since last October, not ''in the last year.'' (Before October, as the analysis noted, real earnings were trending slowly upward.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Enrique Ortega working at the Manda Machine Company in Dallas. The manufacturing sector added 17,000 jobs in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT NAGER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A3) CHARTS: JOB CHANGE (A1)
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
DEMOGRAPHICS
DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
EMPLOYMENT
SHARE OF POPULATION
'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT
UNEMPLOYMENT BY EDUCATION LEVEL
TYPE OF WORK
 AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); WORK WEEK (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (54%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (56%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



46 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: 3 Months in Office, and Cuomo Stands Out Among Peers for His Low Profile

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
When President Obama invited the country's newly elected governors to Washington for lunch and a chance to rub elbows with cabinet secretaries and West Wing officials, Andrew M. Cuomo sent his regrets.
When producers for ''This Week'' and ''Meet the Press'' asked him in February to appear on their highly rated programs to discuss the economy, Mr. Cuomo, who has staked his reputation on bringing jobs and growth to New York, turned them down.
In fact, since taking office in January, Mr. Cuomo has neither taken a single trip out of New York nor appeared on any talk shows. And while other governors make national headlines for their battles over labor unions, budget deficits and illegal immigration, Mr. Cuomo is virtually invisible outside his home state -- a stark contrast to more freewheeling and bombastic officials in New York and beyond.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg travels around the country lobbying for gun control and greenhouse-gas regulation, and occasionally boards a private jet to his Bermuda vacation home. Mr. Cuomo's first-term counterpart in New Jersey, Chris Christie, stoked rumors of presidential ambitions with a trip in February to Washington, where he delivered a speech on how to fix American politics, titled ''It's Time to Do the Big Things.'' 
Mr. Cuomo's trips have taken him to places in New York like Patchogue, Amherst and Binghamton, to deliver variations of his budget speech. The only time he has crossed a state line as governor, aides said, was when his car route to Albany put him on the New Jersey portion of the Palisades Parkway.
When his administration was granted a meeting in Washington with federal regulators to discuss safety issues at the Indian Point nuclear power plant after the earthquake in Japan, Mr. Cuomo, who has called for Indian Point's shutdown, was thick in budget negotiations and sent Lt. Gov. Robert Duffy.
Mr. Cuomo's preferred media outlet is a talk-radio show in Albany that draws a few thousand listeners a day, many of them lobbyists, lawmakers and other government officials. And on Thursday, hours after his most significant legislative win -- passage of an on-time budget -- Mr. Cuomo's victory lap came in the form of a video message on his official Web site.
Mr. Cuomo's friends and aides say there is little mystery to the governor's approach: his time and attention have been consumed by the difficult task of fixing New York's finances. He is keenly aware that unless he can deliver on promises to rein in spending, tighten ethics laws and cap property taxes, his future prospects on the national stage will dim.
''The best politics is governance,'' said Andrew Zambelli, the counselor to the governor. ''If you do what you're supposed to, people get that.''
To some extent, Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, can afford to forgo the freshman governor's usual scramble for attention. As a former cabinet secretary, in charge of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, he has already spent time on the Beltway circuit. His four years as New York attorney general -- the highest-profile such perch in the country -- and his well-known family name gave him national visibility even before his election. (Aides noted that other big-state governors also skipped the White House's invitation to lunch.)
Moreover, polls show that Mr. Cuomo remains both well known and well liked by New York voters, even as he seeks painful cuts in state spending.
Yet Mr. Cuomo is sparing in his public appearances compared with his high-profile peers. Charles E. Schumer, who has the No. 3 Democratic post in the United States Senate, still holds forth at weekend news conferences on matters large and small. (One recently involved the dangers of unsecure wireless connections at New York's coffee shops and other public places.)
Mr. Bloomberg, who is not known for his love of reporters, holds news conferences on most weekdays and takes questions after most public events, weighing in on such topics as the drinking habits of the Irish and the attractions of Buffalo.
Mr. Cuomo rarely publicly discusses issues beyond those he has chosen in advance to tackle -- a discipline that has helped him avoid the kind of gaffes, off-color jokes and minicontroversies that occasionally vex Mr. Bloomberg.
Unlike Mr. Bloomberg, who has discussed his love of golf or taste in art at news conferences, Mr. Cuomo, a devoted father who shares custody of three girls with his ex-wife, does not invite discussion of his personal life.
''This is all a continuum based on what he did wrong when he ran for governor the first time and things he did right as attorney general,'' said Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic political consultant. ''Keep the focus on policy, not on personal matters of any kind, and ensure that there is nothing else but that discussion. He is the all-business governor.''
It is also something of a family tradition: His father, former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, so hated traveling that during his first nine years in office, by one tally, he spent less than 40 nights away from the Executive Mansion. When the elder Mr. Cuomo went to San Francisco to deliver the keynote address at the 1984 Democratic National Convention, he flew home the same night.
Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut, who like Mr. Cuomo took office facing a severe budget crunch, has made five trips to Washington since he was elected in November, aides said, primarily to lobby for additional federal aid for his state.
Roy Occhiogrosso, a senior adviser to Mr. Malloy, said, ''He believes that as a governor, you physically have to be there.''
Like Mr. Christie, Mr. Cuomo has sought to rein in spending on schools, pension benefits and health care. But while Mr. Christie, a Republican, has taken to dressing down teachers and state workers at town hall meetings -- and posting videos of himself doing so on YouTube -- Mr. Cuomo has kept his clashes behind the negotiating room door.
Unlike many other prominent Democrats, Mr. Cuomo has also resisted weighing in on major national issues, be they Republican efforts in Wisconsin to strip collective bargaining rights from labor unions or budget battles in Congress that threaten to shut down the federal government. His aides said that Mr. Cuomo speaks through his actions, not his sound bites.
''While Wisconsin is in the middle of a war with its unions, we're in the middle of some very dramatic efforts, but working with the unions and with others,'' Mr. Zambelli, his counselor, said.
Mr. Cuomo is also conscious, those close to him say, that New Yorkers are hungry for a steady presence in the governor's office after two years of David A. Paterson's more detached and sometimes erratic leadership style. That, in part, is why Mr. Cuomo declined the White House invitation, as well as opting not to attend the winter meeting of the National Governors Association in Washington in February.
''It takes some discipline to say no to the 'Today' show and to not go on 'Meet the Press,' '' said Ken Sunshine, a public relations guru who is a longtime Cuomo friend. ''He's been around for a few years. He understands the contrast -- 'Judge me by my accomplishments, not by my hype.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo at an appearance in Albany in February. He has stayed off network TV shows and in the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); LOBBYING (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); ETHICS (72%); ENERGY REGULATION (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); POWER PLANTS (67%); GUN CONTROL (67%); IMMIGRATION (54%); LABOR UNIONS (54%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (54%); GREENHOUSE GASES (53%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%); BARACK OBAMA (69%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2011



47 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Fiction Chronicle

BYLINE: By JAN STUART. 
Jan Stuart is the author of ''The Nashville Chronicles: The Making of Robert Altman's Masterpiece.''

 BODY:
NUDE WALKER By Bathsheba Monk. 306 pp. Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $25.
Dodging I.E.D.'s in Afghanistan might seem a logical, if not inevitable, destiny for the alienated youth of Warrenside, Pa., a moribund steel town where crack dealers and strip clubs beckon the unemployed, everyone owns a hunting rifle and junior warriors dress ''in Kmart camouflage.'' For Kat Warren-Bineki and Max Asad, the ill-fated lovers and Afghan war veterans in Monk's mordant novel, an added incentive is the chance to escape their oppressive families. Kat returns to an embezzler dad and an unhinged mom with a penchant for parading naked in public. Max awaits a dreaded arranged marriage and a future managing the empire of his Lebanese father, an erstwhile scholar whose devotion to humanism has been replaced by a drive to amass a real estate empire. Virtually everyone in Monk's precision-choreographed subversion of American myths is looking to swap the cards they've been dealt, most notably the local country club's neighbor, Wind Storm, a self-styled Indian ''Love Shaman'' who has thrown off the Scandinavian half of her Swedish-Lenape heritage in favor of an earth-motherly identity, hunting and gathering stray golf balls in the woods. 
BLIND SIGHT By Meg Howrey. 289 pp. Pantheon. $24.95.
Seventeen-year-old Luke Prescott is whip-smart, athletic and open-minded, the sort of kid who could dress as Che Guevara one Halloween and Donald Trump the next. Reared by a New Age mother amid an insistently female clan, this Delaware teenager has his world rocked when he's invited to Los Angeles to spend a summer with the father he's never known. Long denied the benefits of paternal role-modeling, Luke appears to have caught the brass ring: Dad is an action-drama star who works as tirelessly to promulgate his masculine screen image as he now does to compensate for having been a missing-in-action parent. Luke embraces a regimen of movie premieres and marijuana-scented pool parties where he ''has the toenail of his left big toe painted green by a girl whose Chihuahua has appeared in three feature films.'' For much of the way, Howrey gives the deceptive impression of emulating her protagonist, who maintains an ironic distance from his feelings. Until its contentious final act, this buoyantly comedic first novel almost achieves the unfathomable: to be a coming-of-age tale devoid of anguish.
THE BEAUTY OF HUMANITY MOVEMENT By Camilla Gibb. 310 pp. Penguin Press. $25.95.
Gibb's fictional portrait of contemporary Vietnam should be essential reading for anyone mulling a visit to Hanoi, whose profusion of motorbike traffic and culinary aromas issues from these pages with graphic verisimilitude. Gibb uses the city's street food and thriving art scene to reflect both continuity and change, particularly as experienced by her three central characters: Maggie, born in Vietnam but raised in America, and now working as an art curator for Hanoi's luxuriously renovated Metropole Hotel; Hung, an elderly shantytown soup vendor whose dedication to his delicious pho has survived both Communist pillaging and American bombing campaigns; and Tu, a young math teacher turned city-tour guide whose father has known Hung since they were boys. These three are linked by their connections to the artists and intellectuals who founded a heretical literary journal back in 1956. Although Gibb propels her narrative with mysteries (What became of Maggie's dissident-artist father? Why has Hung spent decades living in silence next door to his would-be lover?), the novel's primary appeal lies in the seemingly mundane particulars of the characters' occupations. Shifts in tenses and time frame are executed with jerking suddenness, and the modern-day sequences unfold in a starchy present-tense voice, imbuing the characters with a formality that belies their tumultuous inner lives.
LYRICS ALLEY By Leila Aboulela. 310 pp. Grove. $24.
''Change can't happen overnight'' insists a character in this fortuitously timed novel, which shows two neighboring African countries at a transformative moment. The change that prompts this comment is Sudan's break from Anglo-Egyptian rule in the 1950s, but it also refers to the social and technological revolutions that oiled the upheaval. Aboulela's fleet and engrossing narrative trails the extended family of Mahmoud Abuzeid, a wealthy Sudanese businessman whose two wives, Cairo-cultivated Nabilah and antediluvian Waheeba, represent the cultural tensions between a modernizing Egypt and a provincial, long-patronized Sudan. Pivoting between yesterday and tomorrow is Abuzeid's university-bound niece, Soraya, whose defiance of social expectations is tempered by her white-wedding fantasies about Abuzeid's younger son, Nur. Aboulela, herself of Sudanese-Egyptian heritage, divides her populous universe into oppositional archetypes, as exemplified by the interplay between Badr, the Abuzeids' family tutor, and his no-good cousin Shukry. But this schematic foundation is mitigated by Aboulela's vivid delineation of these personalities, and by a generosity of spirit that extends to all her characters.
MINDING FRANKIE By Maeve Binchy. 383 pp. Knopf. $26.95.
The anodyne novels of the Irish writer Maeve Binchy are so self-consciously theatrical in deploying multiple intersecting dramas that even their inhabitants take to seeing themselves as part of a ''cast of characters.'' Center stage among Binchy's latest dramatis personae is Noel Lynch, a young office drone and recovering alcoholic who assumes the rearing of a baby daughter he can't recall siring. The befuddled Dubliner is galvanized by a Pollyannish American cousin, Emily, and antagonized by Moira, a social worker of grim, Ahab-like determination. Swirling around them is a battery of helpmates and hinderers (some returning from Binchy's earlier works) who are variously inspired by Emily's indefatigable can-do spirit or bound by a common estrangement from their own kin. When it comes to her theme, Binchy is somewhat late to the party: advancing the now familiar notion that the alternative families we stitch together can be infinitely more meaningful than blood ties. But she proclaims this home truth proudly in her customary no-fuss, easily digestible prose. American readers may also revel in the book's underpinning assertion: While it takes a village to raise a child, it requires a Yank to rally the forces and get the job done.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE RUINS OF DETROIT: By Yves Marchand and Romain Meffre. 227 pp. Steidl. $125. Wrenching photographs by Marchand and Meffre, many showing the rotted interiors of once sumptuous buildings, document the city's dereliction. Above, on the 18th floor of the Broderick Tower. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); GOLF (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (75%); DRAMA FILMS (75%); FAMILY (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); CANNABIS (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); MARRIAGE (70%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (69%); HALLOWEEN (64%); FILM (60%); COCAINE (57%); VETERANS (56%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) AFGHANISTAN (88%); LEBANON (79%); UNITED STATES (70%); VIETNAM (65%); VIET NAM (50%)

TITLE: Nude Walker (Book); Blind Sight (Book); Beauty of Humanity Movement, The (Book); Lyrics Alley (Book); Minding Frankie (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



48 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Line Dancing With the Markets

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
NO one knows which way the world's financial markets will move on any given day. No one can know.
But recently, one thing has been easy to predict. Whether the markets move up, down or sideways, they are likely to be moving together.
Last Wednesday offered a particularly telling example. It was a positive day for stocks. In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average rose half a percentage point. Markets in Brazil and Mexico climbed, too, along with those in France, Germany, Hong Kong and Tokyo. In fact, of the 18 leading equity markets tracked around the world by Bloomberg, 17 rose that day. The only exception was Spain, where the IBEX 35 declined -- but by less than a tenth of a percentage point. 
It's as if the world's markets have been responding to the baton of a mercurial but authoritarian maestro, who changes direction often, but insists that all orchestra members play together as one. And it's not just stock markets that have been swinging in unison. To an extent rarely seen before, the bond, commodities and foreign exchange markets have been behaving like synchronized swimmers.
Why are markets so highly correlated? The answer may be found in ''risk on, risk off,'' a bit of jargon favored by financial traders and strategists. The phrase describes a simple, binary decision -- whether to buy high-risk, high-return assets like stocks, or to move to a position of greater safety -- that has come to the fore since the brutal financial shocks of 2008.
''We're in a situation when there's one dominant force -- risk -- driving all markets,'' said Stacy Williams, an HSBC strategist in London. ''Until people are convinced the global economic recovery is truly here to stay, this pattern is unlikely to really go away.''
Researchers at HSBC, working with scholars at Oxford University, have used statistical techniques to document that correlations rose across asset classes in the years before the crisis and surged in response to shocks like the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
''Various events during the financial crisis triggered the birth of the risk-on, risk-off paradigm,'' an HSBC paper declared last August. Risk and the market's response to it are the main factors explaining the rising correlations, the researchers found.
The implications are considerable, the report said: ''In current market conditions, there is little point trying to understand the nuances between different asset classes, or the relative value within asset classes. Commodities behave like bonds, which behave like equities. They are no longer easily identifiable, uncorrelated trades.''
Furthermore, Mr. Williams said, close correlation of seemingly disparate assets implies that many portfolios may not be as diversified as we may think.
Other strategists have found similar patterns. UBS, the giant Swiss bank, for example, has developed its own Equity Risk Appetite Indicator, combining data from ''credit, foreign exchange and equity markets,'' according to a recent report.
The risk appetite of global investors has swung dramatically of late, said Christopher Ferrarone, a UBS global equity strategist based in Stamford, Conn. In response to ''geopolitical events and disasters'' -- the turmoil in the Middle East, a flare-up of the debt crisis in Europe, as well as the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in Japan -- risk aversion leapt during much of March, he said. But the appetite for risk revived in the week of March 21, and surged again last week.
The risk-on, risk-off mantra may help explain some other anomalies, said Eswar Prasad, an economics professor at Cornell University and co-author of the book ''Emerging Markets: Resilience and Growth Amid Global Turmoil.'' While the economies of emerging-market nations have grown more independent, their financial markets have been tightly synchronized with those of more developed nations, he said in a telephone interview from Nanjing, China, where he participated in a seminar on the international monetary system.
''Financial markets are supposed to be very helpful in diversifying risk, but the whole point is you want uncorrelated returns across markets,'' he said. ''If markets are more correlated now, it may be because people are trying to diversify by investing globally, but when there is a trigger event -- when something nasty happens in the world -- they sell assets across markets, and the usefulness of this entire diversification strategy must come into question.''
In a heavily annotated March market letter, James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, scribbled ''WOW'' on a chart showing that correlations between commodity and stock prices had become ''remarkably elevated.'' Another chart showed similar links between those two asset classes and bonds.
In an interview, Mr. Paulsen said that while the current synchronization of disparate markets ''is of greater magnitude and has been going on longer than in any period I've seen,'' there were precedents.
'' 'Risk on, risk off,' it's a new phrase,'' he said, ''but when you look back at, say, the period right after the '87 stock market crash -- that was risk on, risk off, baby. Risk was all anyone was thinking about.''
At the moment, he said, markets are still grappling with the ''total obliteration of economic confidence in this country and in the world during the financial crisis.'' He said we've gone from confidence levels ''we've never registered before to levels you'd normally see in a recession.'' How long it will take for fear to subside fully, he added, is anyone's guess.
BUT Mr. Paulsen says he believes that an economic recovery is already well under way, and that the perception that this is a high-risk environment is mistaken. He advises a contrarian view: ''People are already pricing things for a potential depression, so there's a tremendous amount of protection in prices, and a tremendous upside,'' he said. In fact, he added, it will be clear in hindsight that this was a time to embrace risk.
Investors can find many bargains in risk assets like stocks, he said, because their prices are still modest relative to the strong corporate earnings in the United States and abroad. ''The dysfunction in the market -- the high correlations -- all of that is offering investors an opportunity rather than something to avoid,'' he said. ''Eventually this will all go away and that will be kind of sad, because it will mean these opportunities will be over.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); STATISTICAL METHOD (71%); SWIMMING (51%); SPORTS (51%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (77%); SPAIN (57%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



49 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Mother Nature's Melting Pot

BYLINE: By HUGH RAFFLES. 
Hugh Raffles, an anthropologist at the New School, is the author of ''Insectopedia.''

 BODY:
THE anti-immigrant sentiment sweeping the country, from draconian laws in Arizona to armed militias along the Mexican border, has taken many Americans by surprise. It shouldn't -- nativism runs deep in the United States. Just ask our non-native animals and plants: they too are commonly labeled as aliens, even though they also provide significant benefits to their new home.
While the vanguard of the anti-immigrant crusade is found among the likes of the Minutemen and the Tea Party, the native species movement is led by environmentalists, conservationists and gardeners. Despite cultural and political differences, both are motivated -- in Margaret Thatcher's infamous phrase -- by the fear of being swamped by aliens. 
But just as America is a nation built by waves of immigrants, our natural landscape is a shifting mosaic of plant and animal life. Like humans, plants and animals travel, often in ways beyond our knowledge and control. They arrive unannounced, encounter unfamiliar conditions and proceed to remake each other and their surroundings.
Designating some as native and others as alien denies this ecological and genetic dynamism. It draws an arbitrary historical line based as much on aesthetics, morality and politics as on science, a line that creates a mythic time of purity before places were polluted by interlopers.
What's more, many of the species we now think of as natives may not be especially well suited to being here. They might be, in an ecological sense, temporary residents, no matter how permanent they seem to us.
These ''native'' species can have serious effects on their environment. Take the mountain pine beetle: thanks to climate change, its population is exploding in the West, devastating hundreds of thousands of square miles of forest.
It's true that some non-native species have brought with them expensive and well-publicized problems; zebra mussels, nutria and kudzu are prime examples. But even these notorious villains have ecological or economic benefits. Zebra mussels, for example, significantly improve water quality, which increases populations of small fish, invertebrates and seaweeds -- and that, in turn, has helped expand the number of larger fish and birds.
Indeed, non-native plants and animals have transformed the American landscape in unmistakably positive ways. Honeybees were introduced from Europe in the 1600s, and new stocks from elsewhere in the world have landed at least eight times since. They succeeded in making themselves indispensable, economically and symbolically. In the process, they made us grateful that they arrived, stayed and found their place.
But the honeybee is a lucky exception. Today, a species's immigration status often makes it a target for eradication, no matter its effect on the environment. Eucalyptus trees, charged with everything from suffocating birds with their resin to elevating fire risk with their peeling bark, are the targets of large-scale felling.
Yet eucalyptuses are not only majestic trees popular with picnickers, they are one of the few sources of nectar available to northern Californian bees in winter and a vital destination for migrating monarch butterflies.
Or take ice plant, a much-vilified Old World succulent that spreads its thick, candy-colored carpet along the California coast. Concerned that it is crowding out native wildflowers, legions of environmental volunteers rip it from the sandy soil and pile it in slowly moldering heaps along the cliffs.
Yet ice plant, introduced to the West Coast at the beginning of the 20th century to stabilize railroad tracks, is an attractive plant that can also deter erosion of the sandstone bluffs on which it grows.
There are plenty of less controversial examples. Non-native shad, crayfish and mud snails provide food for salmon and other fish. Non-native oysters on the Pacific Coast build reefs that create habitat for crab, mussels and small fish, appearing to increase these animals' populations.
And in any case, efforts to restore ecosystems to an imagined pristine state almost always fail: once a species begins to thrive in a new environment, there's little we can do to stop it. Indeed, these efforts are often expensive and can increase rather than relieve environmental harm.
An alternative is to embrace the impurity of our cosmopolitan natural world and, as some biologists are now arguing, to consider the many ways that non-native plants and animals -- not just the natives -- benefit their environments and our lives.
Last month, along with 161 other immigrants from more than 50 countries, I attended an oath-swearing ceremony in Lower Manhattan and became a citizen of the United States. In a brief speech welcoming us into a world of new rights and responsibilities, the presiding judge emphasized our diversity. It is, he said, the ever-shifting diversity that immigrants like us bring to this country that keeps it dynamic and strong.
These familiar words apply just as meaningfully to our nation's non-native plants and animals. Like the humans with whose lives they are so entangled, they too are in need of a thoughtful and inclusive response.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SOUTHER SALAZAR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ANIMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); MAMMALS (77%); RODENTS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (71%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (70%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (70%); WATER QUALITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



50 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: Erasing The Digital Past

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

 BODY:
THE Internet never forgets.
Just ask the New York City teacher who recently divorced his wife of five years. Drop his name into Google, and his ex-wife appears in pictures of vacations and Christmas parties. ''It's difficult when you're trying to date and your ex is still in the picture, so to speak,'' said the teacher, who didn't want to make matters worse by having his name in a newspaper.
The same goes for Bryan, an advertising executive in New York City. He is an accomplished online marketer and New York University professor, but search his name, and one of the first Web results is a press release from the United States attorney's office. Eight years earlier, he was charged with wrongfully receiving 9/11 grant money. ''Even after all these years,'' those links remained, said Bryan, who paid a $2,000 fine.
And then there is the Philadelphia physiologist who became unwittingly linked to a consumer advocacy site, when it listed him as a graduate of a distance learning school that was shut down. ''I felt totally victimized because there was nothing I could do,'' said the physiologist, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he did not want added attention. ''My case load started to dry up.'' 
At first, some tried manipulating the Web results on their own, by doing things like manually deleting photos from Flickr, revising Facebook pages and asking bloggers to remove offending posts. But like a metastasized cancer, the incriminating data had embedded itself into the nether reaches of cyberspace, etched into archives, algorithms and a web of hyperlinks.
After failing to rid the negative sites on their own, most turned to a new breed of Web specialists known as online reputation managers, who offer to expunge negative posts, bury unfavorable search results and monitor a client's virtual image.
Now when they perform a Web search of themselves, the negative links are harder to find. ''It took a couple of months, but now when you Google my name, the negative sites are buried about six or seven pages in,'' the physiologist said. ''My clientele has dramatically improved, and when people call to make inquires, they always say they got my name from the Internet.''
The company he used, Reputation.com, is among a growing corps of online reputation managers that promise to make clients look better online. In an age when a person's reputation is increasingly defined by Google, Facebook and Twitter, these services offer what is essentially an online makeover, improving how someone appears on the Internet, usually by spotlighting flattering features and concealing negative ones.
''The Internet has become the go-to resources to destroy someone's life online, which in turn means their offline life gets turned upside, too,'' said Michael Fertik, the chief executive of Reputation.com, which is in Redwood City, Calif., and is among the largest in this field. ''We've reached a point where the Internet has become so complicated, vast and fast-paced, that people can't control it by themselves anymore. They now need an army of technologists to back them up online.''
ONLINE image fixers are not entirely new. For years now, big corporations and those with financial stakes in their Web presence have employed handlers to edit their online reputation -- often as part of the array of services offered by a large public relations firm, lawyers or image consultants.
During the economic collapse in 2008, Wall Street bankers hired online specialists to protect their good names. ''Some of these bankers were paying upwards of $10,000 a month to try hide their names online as they began appearing in the press,'' said one image manager in New York City, who would only speak on the condition of anonymity to protect his high-profile clients.
Celebrities, too, have employed reputation companies, to fend off hurtful gossip items and negative articles in the news media.
But as everyday people began living more of their lives online, whether it's blogging about dinner or posting vacation photos on Facebook, the downside to oversharing online began to catch up.
''It's been a relatively nascent industry for a while, but fast forward to today and it's become more mainstream,'' said Bryce Tom, the former director of online reputation management at Rubenstein Communications, a major public relations firm in New York. So mainstream, in fact, that Mr. Tom left the firm last year to start Metal Rabbit Media, a reputation management company.
Mr. Tom divides his clients into two camps: ''reactive'' clients, who want to remove a specific item from the Web, and ''proactive'' clients, who want to monitor their image. His clients are evenly split between the two.
While Mr. Tom's firm attracts a more affluent clientele, other companies report a broad customer base. It includes college students trying to delete drunken party photos before corporate recruiters find them, a corporate lawyer who wanted to remove non-work-related photos of himself from the Web as he tried to become a partner within his law firm and a real estate agent in Miami whose listings were obscured by blog posts that chronicled an arrest for driving under the influence.
''Social networks, online comments and oversharing online have created a threat to everyone's reputation and privacy,'' said Mr. Fertik of Reputation.com. ''Now people are trying to figure out how to put that toothpaste back in the bottle.''
ONCE something is online, it can be very difficult, if not impossible, to delete. So tweaking one's online reputation usually boils down to gaming the search engines. Image-conscious people with an understanding of the Web's architecture can try doing it themselves, by populating the Web with favorable content. That might involve setting up their own Web site or blog, or signing up for popular social networks like Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn.
With any luck, those sites will appear first on a Web search, and push down any offending material. But these tactics have their limits, especially when the Web sites in question are popular and optimized for search engines.
One such site would be Gawker, the New York media blog, which had been known to pluck characters out of relative obscurity and turn them into villains. Starting in 2009, Gawker published a series of snarky items about Julia Allison, a former dating columnist for Time Out New York magazine. Readers were soon acquainted with her videos of her publicly arguing with a boyfriend at the time, personal e-mails sent to Gawker editors and photos of Ms. Allison in lingerie which were posted online.
Ms. Allison tried tinkering with the search result herself, but became so fed up that she once announced that she was ''quitting'' the Internet. ''It's more like whack-a-mole than anything else,'' said Ms. Allison, who has been in talks with Reputation.com to work or online presence. ''Hit one, and another pops up. I have spent hours and hours attempting to solve the nearly impossible problem of a maligned online reputation.''
That's when the experts are called in. Online reputation managers go further by exploiting how search engines like Google and Bing work, which is to rank Web pages based on how often they are linked from other sites. To trick the search engines, these managers employ programmers who create dummy Web sites that link to a client's approved list of search results. The more links, the higher the approved sites rank.
They may also contact the Webmaster or blogger directly, especially with smaller sites, and ask that the specific items be removed, usually by appealing to their sense of fairness. Some sites are more challenging than others. Wikipedia can be edited by anyone. Erasing an image from Google has so far eluded Mr. Tom and others.
While Reputation.com has more than 120 employees, the same service can be offered by a single savvy programmer. Mr. Tom's Metal Rabbit Media is currently housed in his sunny two-bedroom apartment in Chelsea, where he spends his day in front of two computers, writing code that tries to circumvent search engines. The company has one employee and two freelancers.
On a recent Wednesday afternoon, he was preparing a briefing for a new client, describing how he would ''fix'' Wikipedia and the top search results on various search engines. On the walls of his office were framed copies of Google search results and Wikipedia entries of clients: a reality television star, a movie actress and a chief executive officer. Mr. Tom calls it his ''wall of fame.''
The price of looking good online varies widely. Reputation.com charges $120 to $600 a year for run-of-the-mill cases. ''Celebrities, politicians and high-level executives aren't so lucky,'' Mr. Tom said. ''Their programs typically average between $5,000 and $10,000 a month due to the higher level of finesse necessary and because the stakes are much higher.''
''The hardest thing is when you have a very unique name,'' added Don Sorenson, the founder of Big Blue Robot, an online reputation management company in Orem, Utah, that works with corporations. ''If you have a last name like Smith or Brown, you're going to be better off, but if you have a unique name you will definitely have your work cut out for you.''
At that point, some people have been known to legally change their name.
It hasn't become that bad for Ms. Allison. She compares the scar to her online reputation to a large tattoo: ''Technically, it's possible to remove it, but it's painful and expensive. Plus, there's no guarantee that you'll ever remove it 100 percent.''
The entire experience has made her more cautious about what she shares. ''I swore too much and there are a few lingerie photos I wish were private now, but they are the relatively average mistakes of youth,'' she said. ''Unfortunately, they are now mistakes that will follow me in perpetuity.''
Correction: April 17, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on April 3 about services that manage information about their clients on the Internet misstated the relationship of Julia Allison, the subject of repeated entries on the Web site Gawker, to Time Out New York. She was a dating columnist, not a sex columnist. The article also misstated the Web location of photos of her in lingerie. They were on Gawker, not on her blog. The article also misstated her description of herself. She does not call herself a social media expert.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE CLEANERS: Michael Fertik, far left, of Reputation.com. Bryce Tom, left, of Metal Rabbit Media. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST8
ST9) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOON MO KANG)(ST1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); REPUTATION MANAGEMENT (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (75%); SEARCH ENGINES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); DISTANCE LEARNING (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (54%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011



51 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Deadly Protests Over Koran Burning Reach Kandahar

BYLINE: By TAIMOOR SHAH and ROD NORDLAND; Enayat Najafizada contributed reporting from Mazar-i-Sharif, Afghanistan.

 BODY:
KANDAHAR, Afghanistan -- Violent protests over the burning of a Koran in Florida flared Saturday for a second straight day, with young men rampaging through the streets of this southern capital city, flying Taliban flags and wielding sticks.
Nine people were killed and 81 wounded in the disturbances, all from bullet wounds, said Abdul Qayoum Pakhla, head of the provincial health department. Kandahar has long been the heartland of the Taliban insurgency but has been relatively quiet in recent months since a surge of additional American troops arrived here.
The protests here came a day after a mob overran the headquarters of the United Nations in Mazar-i-Sharif, killing 12 people, 7 of them international staff members. The top United Nations official in Afghanistan, Staffan de Mistura, blamed Taliban infiltrators for the killings, saying the victims were deliberately murdered rather than killed by an out-of-control mob. The mob gathered after three mullahs at Friday Prayer urged action in response to the Koran burning by a pastor, Terry Jones, in Florida on March 20. 
In Kandahar, several thousand young men, shouting slogans calling for death to Americans and to the government of President Hamid Karzai, were still rioting after several hours on Saturday, setting tires on fire throughout the city, burning cars and attacking journalists trying to cover the disorder. Shops and businesses were closed, and most people stayed off the street. Many of the protesters were waving the white flag of the Taliban.
The police said that some of the protesters were armed, and Afghan authorities used live ammunition on occasion to quell the disturbances, which continued all day. Of the 16 arrested, 7 were armed, officials said.
Kandahar's provincial governor, Tooryalai Wesa, said the police had been patient with the protesters on Saturday, even when some used grenades and other weapons, but might have to take action ''if it continues for another day.''
Zalmai Ayoubi, spokesman for the governor, said the rioters attacked the Zarghona Ana High School for Girls, burning some classrooms and a school bus. The school is supported by the United States Agency for International Development. The Taliban have opposed education for girls.
A spokesman for the American military in Kandahar, Lt. Col. Web Wright, said relatively small crowds were involved, with the biggest group, about 100 demonstrators, gathered outside the governor's offices. So far, no coalition military forces have been made the target of protests.
Although Mazar-i-Sharif has little or no Taliban presence, Kandahar has a significant number of residents who sympathize with the insurgents.
There were also demonstrations over the Koran burning on Friday and Saturday in Kabul, and on Friday in Herat, in eastern Afghanistan. Both were peaceful and lightly attended.
Both Afghan and international news media had initially played down or ignored the actions of Mr. Jones, the Florida pastor. On Thursday, however, President Karzai made a speech and issued statements condemning the Koran burning and calling for the arrest of Mr. Jones for his actions. On Friday, that theme was picked up in mosques throughout Afghanistan.
''Karzai brought this issue back to life, and he has to take some responsibility for starting this up,'' said a prominent Afghan businessman, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of retribution if he was identified as a critic of the president.
''Karzai's speech itself provoked people to take such actions,'' said Qayum Baabak, a political analyst in Mazar-i-Sharif. ''Karzai should have called on people to be patient rather than making people more angry.''
Officials in Mazar-i-Sharif also blamed Taliban agitators from other provinces for stirring up violence in the protests there.
A Taliban spokesman, however, denied that the insurgents had any role in the disturbances in either Mazar-i-Sharif or Kandahar. ''This was the reaction of the people of Afghanistan,'' the spokesman, Zabiullah Mujahid, said.
Mr. de Mistura, returning from a visit to Mazar-i-Sharif, said there was abundant evidence that agitators deliberately killed the United Nations workers.
The four international staff members took refuge in a bunker inside the compound, as the crowd outside set buildings and vehicles on fire.
The Taliban agitators were armed with pistols and spoke with accents from other parts of Afghanistan, he said.
They hunted down the international staff members hiding in the bunker. At first they found only the Russian director of the office, but they let him go when he persuaded them that he was a Muslim by reciting the Koran in Arabic. When they found the others, they killed them.
President Obama on Saturday described the killings as ''outrageous, and an affront to human decency and dignity.'' He also said that ''the desecration of any holy text, including the Koran, is an act of extreme intolerance and bigotry.''
Also on Saturday, a team of suicide bombers tried to breach the front gate at an American military base in Kabul, Camp Phoenix, said Mohammed Zahir, chief of the criminal investigation division of the Kabul police. One detonated his explosives at the gate of the camp, another managed to get about five yards inside the gate before setting off his device, and the other two were shot and killed by guards before they could enter, he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Afghan policemen inspected a United Nations compound in Mazar-i-Sharif on Saturday a day after a mob attacked it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSTAFA NAJAFIZADA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); RIOTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); RELIGION (78%); MURDER (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); WOMEN (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (61%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (96%); MAZAR-E SHARIF, AFGHANISTAN (93%); HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



52 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: When the Cupboard Is Bare in Washington

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In an imagined 2026 address to the nation, N. Gregory Mankiw has a future president finally acknowledging that the nation is broke and announcing breathtaking cuts in Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and education (''The Day the Debt Is Due,'' Economic View, March 27). But the column offers nary a word about the costs of military spending or of the national security results of the wars that America has waged since the 21st century began. 
What's most disturbing about this is not Professor Mankiw's omission of those costs, but the strong possibility that he's right -- that even four election cycles from today, there will still be no national discussion about the military-industrial complex and the futility of war. James R. Kelly
Brooklyn, March 28
To the Editor:
I think that the column painted an accurate, if disturbing, picture of what an American president might have to say 15 years from now. Yet I don't know if we can last that long. For administration after administration, and Congress after Congress, our Washington worthies of each party have blamed their counterparts across the aisle for kicking the can down the road, leaving the problem of debts and deficits to our children and their children.
Our elected representatives, while striving to please their particular constituents, should remember that they also serve the entire nation -- including those who didn't vote for them. They need to realize that the opposition party might actually have a good idea now and then, and be willing to set aside their ''my way or the highway'' attitude and perhaps consider open-minded discussions.
I hope to be around in 2026, and I'd like not to hear that presidential speech. Eric Mihan
Oxford, Md., March 28
To the Editor:
The column is compellingly prescient, and a good read. But why, in the avalanche of causes of the nation's financial problems, is the blame cascaded on social programs? Where is the denunciations of our military financial sinkhole? Of foreign aid programs that help dictators or return as lobbyists' funding? Of wars and pie-in-the-sky weapons systems? Of the preferences to multinationals that avoid taxes altogether? Of tax cuts to the rich while the working and middle classes suffer death by a thousand budget cuts?
Joseph Springer
San Leandro, Calif., March 27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); MEDICAID (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); TAX RELIEF (65%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



53 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: The Bank Run We Knew So Little About

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IN August 2007, as world financial markets were seizing up, domestic and foreign banks began lining up for cash from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
That Aug. 20, Commerzbank of Germany borrowed $350 million at the Fed's discount window. Two days later, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and the Wachovia Corporation each received $500 million. As collateral for all these loans, the banks put up a total of $213 billion in asset-backed securities, commercial loans and residential mortgages, including second liens.
Thus began the bank run that set off the financial crisis of 2008. But unlike other bank runs, this one was invisible to most Americans. 
Until last week, that is, when the Fed pulled back the curtain. Responding to a court ruling, it made public thousands of pages of confidential lending documents from the crisis.
The data dump arose from a lawsuit initiated by Mark Pittman, a reporter at Bloomberg News, who died in November 2009. Upon receiving his request for details on the central bank's lending, the Fed argued that the public had no right to know. The courts disagreed.
The Fed documents, like much of the information about the crisis that has been pried out of reluctant government agencies, reveal what was going on behind the scenes as the financial storm gathered. For instance, they show how dire the banking crisis was becoming during the summer of 2007. Washington policy makers, meanwhile, were saying that the subprime crisis would subside with little impact on the broad economy and that world markets were highly liquid.
For example, on July 23, 2007, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary at the time, said the housing slump appeared to be ''at or near the bottom.'' Two days later, Timothy F. Geithner, then the president of the New York Fed, declared in a speech before the Forum on Global Leadership in Washington: ''Financial markets outside the United States are now deeper and more liquid than they used to be, making it easier for companies to raise capital domestically at reasonable cost.''
Within about a month's time, however, foreign banks began thronging to the Fed's discount window -- its mechanism for short-term lending to banks. Over four days in late August and early September, foreign institutions, through their New York branches, received a total of almost $1.7 billion in Fed loans.
As the global run progressed, banks increased their borrowings, the documents show. For example, on Sept. 12, 2007, Citibank drove up to the New York Fed's window. It extracted $3.375 billion of cash in exchange for $23 billion worth of assets, including commercial mortgage-backed securities, residential mortgages and commercial loans.
THAT transaction seemed to get the Fed's attention. At 1:30 that afternoon, Mr. Geithner spent half an hour on the phone with Gary L. Crittenden, Citi's chief financial officer at the time, Mr. Geithner's calendar shows. A few weeks later, Citigroup announced that it was writing off $5.9 billion in the third quarter, causing its profit to drop 60 percent from a year earlier -- and that was only the beginning.
Perhaps the biggest revelation in the Fed documents is the extent to which the central bank was willing to lend to foreign institutions. On Nov. 8, 2007, Deutsche Bank took out a $2.4 billion overnight loan secured by $4 billion in collateral. And on Dec. 5, 2007, Calyon of France borrowed $2 billion, providing $16 billion in collateral.
When the crisis was full-on in 2008, foreign institutions became even bigger beneficiaries of the Fed's credit programs. On Nov. 4 of that year, the Fed extended $133 billion through various facilities. Two foreign institutions -- the German-Irish bank Depfa and Dexia Credit of Belgium -- received 39 percent of the money that day.
''The striking thing was the large amount of borrowing that the New York Fed accepted during the crisis from European banks that had only a minimal presence in the U.S. and arguably posed no threat to the U.S. payment system,'' said Walker F. Todd, a research fellow at the American Institute for Economic Research and a former assistant general counsel and research officer at the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. Such a thing would never have occurred 20 years ago, he added.
All of the discount-window borrowings extended to institutions during the debacle have been repaid. But the precedent was set: The Fed was the financial backstop to the world.
Since 2000 or so, the mind-set at the Fed in New York and Washington has been that the central bank must step in when there is a global crisis, Mr. Todd said, even if it appears to exceed its mandate.
Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, seemed to foreshadow this view early in the crisis. Addressing the Fed's annual symposium at Jackson Hole, Wyo., on Aug. 17, 2007, Mr. Bernanke said: ''It is not the responsibility of the Federal Reserve -- nor would it be appropriate -- to protect lenders and investors from the consequences of their financial decisions. But developments in financial markets can have broad economic effects felt by many outside the markets, and the Federal Reserve must take those effects into account when determining policy.''
Protecting global lenders and investors from the effects of their financial decisions was exactly what the Fed decided it had to do. Bankers and investors on the receiving end of this largess have long known the extent to which the Fed rescued them in their time of need. Now, thanks to these Fed documents, the rest of us can see it, too.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (76%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (94%); COMMERZBANK AG (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (91%); CBK (FRA) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (94%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



54 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Unpaid Interns, Complicit Colleges

BYLINE: By ROSS PERLIN. 
Ross Perlin, a researcher at the Himalayan Languages Project, is the author of the forthcoming ''Intern Nation: How to Earn Nothing and Learn Little in the Brave New Economy.''

 BODY:
ON college campuses, the annual race for summer internships, many of them unpaid, is well under way. But instead of steering students toward the best opportunities and encouraging them to value their work, many institutions of higher learning are complicit in helping companies skirt a nebulous area of labor law.
Colleges and universities have become cheerleaders and enablers of the unpaid internship boom, failing to inform young people of their rights or protect them from the miserly calculus of employers. In hundreds of interviews with interns over the past three years, I found dejected students resigned to working unpaid for summers, semesters and even entire academic years -- and, increasingly, to paying for the privilege.
For the students, the problems are less philosophical and legal than practical. In 2007, for instance, Will Batson, a Colgate University student from Augusta, Ga., and a son of two public-interest lawyers, worked as an unpaid, full-time summer intern for WNBC and had to scramble for shelter in New York City. 
''It definitely hurt my confidence,'' Mr. Batson told me. He recalled crashing on more than 20 floors and couches, being constantly short on cash and fearing he would have to quit and go home. His father, he said, felt like a failure for not being able to help him rent an apartment.
What makes WNBC -- whose parent company, General Electric, is valued at more than $200 billion -- think it can get away with this? In Mr. Batson's case, a letter from Colgate, certifying that he was receiving credit for doing the internship. (Now 24, he gave up on journalism and is at a technology start-up. NBC calls its internship program ''an important recruiting tool.'')
The uncritical internship fever on college campuses -- not to mention the exploitation of graduate student instructors, adjunct faculty members and support staff -- is symptomatic of a broader malaise. Far from being the liberal, pro-labor bastions of popular image, universities are often blind to the realities of work in contemporary America.
In politics, film, fashion, journalism and book publishing, unpaid internships are seen as a way to break in. (The New York Times has paid and unpaid interns.) But the phenomenon goes beyond fields seen as glamorous.
Three-quarters of the 10 million students enrolled in America's four-year colleges and universities will work as interns at least once before graduating, according to the College Employment Research Institute. Between one-third and half will get no compensation for their efforts, a study by the research firm Intern Bridge found. Unpaid interns also lack protection from laws prohibiting racial discrimination and sexual harassment.
The United States Department of Labor says an intern at a for-profit company may work without pay only when the program is similar to that offered in a vocational school, benefits the student, does not displace a regular employee and does not entitle the student to a job; in addition, the employer must derive ''no immediate advantage'' from the student's work and both sides must agree that the student is not entitled to wages.
Employers and their lawyers appear to believe that unpaid interns who get academic credit meet those criteria, but the law seems murky; the Labor Department has said that ''academic credit alone does not guarantee that the employer is in compliance.''
Fearing a crackdown by regulators, some colleges are asking the government, in essence, to look the other way. In a letter last year, 13 university presidents told the Labor Department, ''While we share your concerns about the potential for exploitation, our institutions take great pains to ensure students are placed in secure and productive environments that further their education.''
Far from resisting the exploitation of their students, colleges have made academic credit a commodity. Just look at Menlo College, a business-focused college in northern California, which sold credits to a business called Dream Careers. Menlo grossed $50,000 from the arrangement in 2008, while Dream Careers sold Menlo-accredited internships for as much as $9,500.
To meet the credit requirement of their employers, some interns have essentially had to pay to work for free: shelling out $2,700 to the University of Pennsylvania in the case of an intern at NBC Universal and $1,600 to New York University by an intern at ''The Daily Show,'' to cite two examples from news reports.
Charging students tuition to work in unpaid positions might be justifiable in some cases -- if the college plays a central role in securing the internship and making it a substantive academic experience. But more often, internships are a cheap way for universities to provide credit -- cheaper than paying for faculty members, classrooms and equipment.
A survey of more than 700 colleges by the National Association of Colleges and Employers found that 95 percent allowed the posting of unpaid internships in campus career centers and on college Web sites. And of those colleges, only 30 percent required that their students obtain academic credit for those unpaid internships; the rest, evidently, were willing to overlook potential violations of labor law.
Campus career centers report being swamped; advisers I spoke to flatly denied being able to ''monitor and reassess'' all placements or even postings, as the 13 university presidents claim to do -- their ability to visit students' workplaces, for instance, is almost nil. They described feeling caught between the demands of employers and interns, and scrambling to make accommodations: issuing vague letters of support for interns to show employers; offering sketchy ''internship transcript notations'' or ''internship certificates''; and even handing out ''0.0 credit'' -- a mysterious work-around by which credit both is and isn't issued.
Is there a better way? Cooperative education, in which students alternate between tightly integrated classroom time and paid work experience, represents a humane and pragmatic model.
Colleges shouldn't publicize unpaid internships at for-profit companies. They should discourage internship requirements for graduation -- common practice in communications, psychology, social work and criminology. They should stop charging students to work without pay -- and ensure that the currency of academic credit, already cheapened by internships, doesn't lose all its value.
To be sure, the unpaid internship is only part of a phenomenon that includes the growing numbers of temps, freelancers, adjuncts, self-employed ''entrepreneurs'' and other low-wage or precariously employed workers who live gig by gig. The academy should critique, not amplify, those trends.
While higher education has tried to stand for fairness in the past few decades through affirmative action and financial aid, the internship boom gives the well-to-do a foot in the door while consigning the less well-off to dead-end temporary jobs. Colleges have turned internships into a prerequisite for the professional world but have neither ensured equal access to these opportunities, nor insisted on fair wages for honest work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); LAWYERS (73%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (71%); JOURNALISM (68%); RACE & RACISM (50%); BOOK PUBLISHING (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AUGUSTA, GA, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



55 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Finding an Original Heroine

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

 BODY:
FOR a director who made his name with the literary adaptations ''Pride and Prejudice'' and ''Atonement,''Joe Wright has a surprising view of the essence of cinema. ''Drama can be presented onstage, and beautiful pictures can be presented in a gallery, but really action is pure cinema,'' Mr. Wright said on the phone recently.
By action, he said, he did not necessarily mean the chases and explosions that typify the summer movie season but rather ''the organization of figures in space.'' He added, ''It's a pleasurable thing to tell stories simply by movement.''
His new film, ''Hanna,'' opening Friday, afforded plenty of opportunities for kinetic storytelling. Starring Saoirse (she pronounces it SER-shah) Ronan, the young Irish actress who received an Oscar nomination for her role in ''Atonement,'' the movie recounts the violent coming of age of a teenager raised in the frigid wilds of Finland by her father (Eric Bana), and for reasons that are initially unclear, trained to be an assassin. 
In more ways than one ''Hanna'' is a departure for Mr. Wright, 39, who with his previous films has shouldered the obligations of fidelity: translating Jane Austen or Ian McEwan to the screen, or in the 2009 film ''The Soloist,'' about the friendship between a newspaperman and a homeless Juilliard dropout, relying on the accounts of the journalist Steve Lopez. On ''Hanna'' Mr. Wright worked for the first time with an original screenplay (by Seth Lochhead and David Farr).
''I like the limitations of an adaptation, possibly the safety of it,'' Mr. Wright said. ''The freedom of an original story can be terrifying, but it was also liberating.''
When Ms. Ronan, who turns 17 this month, signed on to ''Hanna,'' Focus Features, which produced the film, did not have a director attached. She immediately suggested Mr. Wright.
''I said, 'Just tell him I'm doing it,' '' Ms. Ronan said on the phone from Dublin. ''Which was a bit cheeky, but then Joe rang me up a few days later.''
For Mr. Wright the chance to work again with Ms. Ronan was a major draw. ''I wanted to see how she'd evolved as an actress,'' he said. (A London native and resident, he was calling from California, where his wife, the sitarist Anoushka Shankar, had given birth to a baby boy a few weeks earlier.)
When he read the script, ''it had gone through a development process and was more of a procedural thriller,'' Mr. Wright said. But he detected an intriguing surrealist undertone, and Hanna struck him as ''a holy fool character,'' he said, comparing her to innocents like E.T. and Kaspar Hauser, a 19th-century German who supposedly grew up without human contact.
''I like what these characters can show us philosophically about contemporary society,'' he said. ''Hanna is someone who's not been taught to judge anything. She has an open awareness of the world, almost in a spiritual sense.''
Unlike most holy fool figures, however, Hanna happens also to be a killing machine. Ms. Ronan said she thought of Hanna as the ultimate teenage misfit more than an action heroine.
''Usually with characters in action movies, you know what you're going to get,'' she said. ''They're cool, they have great catchphrases. But Hanna isn't like that at all. She's a bit of a freak, in a great way.''
Mr. Wright noted that all his films are ''told from a very subjective point of view,'' whether that of the pragmatic, romantic Lizzy Bennet in ''Pride and Prejudice''; the guilt-stricken Briony Tallis in ''Atonement''; or the schizophrenic Nathaniel Ayers in ''The Soloist.'' ''Trying to see the world from someone else's reality,'' Mr. Wright said, ''that's kind of the point of what I do.''
Since Hanna is essentially a blank slate, the progress of the movie -- which takes her from the Arctic Circle to the Moroccan Sahara, through Spain and finally to Berlin -- corresponds to her ''growing awareness of the world,'' Mr. Wright said.
Hanna is on a mission to reunite with her father, but in a sense the real drama arises when this teenage girl who had no female role models encounters other girls and women for the first time: a pop-culture-obsessed teenager (Jessica Barden) and her hippie-ish mother (Olivia Williams), and the villainous federal agent (Cate Blanchett) who has a history with Hanna's father.
''I guess I'm not particularly testosterone driven,'' Mr. Wright said. ''It's not something I like to analyze too deeply. But I like women, and I'm interested in our preconceptions about their roles in society.''
Even though he admires Paul Greengrass's ''Bourne'' films -- and used the fight choreographer, Jeff Imada, who worked on them -- Mr. Wright wanted to avoid the shaky tumult and fast cuts of Mr. Greengrass's widely imitated technique. Mr. Wright strove instead to find what he called ''economical expressions of action.''
In his estimation the most effective action set piece of recent years is from the 2003 Korean film ''Oldboy'': a tracking shot down a long corridor that unfolds without a single cut. Mr. Wright also cited the master of the samurai epic, Akira Kurosawa, who quickened pulses through precise composition and montage long before the advent of digital technology, and the distilled style of Robert Bresson, who in ''Pickpocket'' (1959) staged a sequence of thieves working a train station as a stealthy, elaborate dance.
Given his fondness for the long take, choreography is a central aspect of Mr. Wright's films. The centerpiece of ''Atonement'' is a five-minute Steadicam shot of the evacuation from Dunkirk. In ''Hanna'' Mr. Bana's big brawl, in an underground train station, is captured in a single snaking shot, and Ms. Ronan's most complicated fight, in a container yard, was also filmed in extended takes.
''I enjoy the theatricality of the tracking shot,'' Mr. Wright said. ''But far from being a chance to show off, it's actually a response to production limitations.'' On a film like ''Hanna,'' which he called ''an action film on a drama budget,'' a complicated single take requires hours of rehearsal, but a chopped-up scene would entail days of setups.
Mr. Wright's next project, ''Anna Karenina,'' from a Tom Stoppard adaptation, returns him to his familiar turf of literary cinema. But ''Hanna'' is a film that takes him back to his earliest influences. Mr. Wright's parents operated a puppet theater in London, and he grew up on Grimm and Andersen fairy tales.
''Hanna'' also resonates with one of Mr. Wright's formative cinematic encounters. When he was 15, his vacationing parents left him at home, and he discovered a video of David Lynch's ''Blue Velvet,'' which he watched in a loop. ''It completely exploded my world,'' he said. There have been few occasions in Mr. Wright's career to indulge the wilder flights of his imagination, but ''Hanna'' leaves ample room for otherworldly atmospherics and a Lynchian mix of humor and menace.
''Lynch's films are fairy tales far more than Disney's are,'' Mr. Wright said. ''It's ironic these days that a fairy-tale ending is thought to be a happy ending, when most fairy tales are very, very dark. The little mermaid commits suicide. Hansel and Gretel put an old lady in an oven.''
With ''Hanna'' he sought to tell a story governed by fairy-tale logic in all its sinister strangeness.
''It's not set in the real world, but a kind of mystical world just beyond rational perception,'' Mr. Wright said. ''It's a dream of adolescence -- or a nightmare really.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The director Joe Wright on the set of ''Hanna,'' a thriller that is a departure from the literary adaptions for which he is known.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BAILEY)
In ''Hanna,'' Saoirse Ronan, above, plays a kind of holy fool who was raised away from society by her father, played by Eric Bana, right, to be an assassin. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FOCUS FEATURES
 ALEX BAILEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); WRITERS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) IRELAND (56%); UNITED STATES (50%)

TITLE: Hanna (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



56 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Design Magazine; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Editor's Letter

BYLINE: By SALLY SINGER

 BODY:
A few months ago, Pilar Viladas, our brilliant design editor, came to an editorial meeting with a clutch of pictures of a Georgian manor house in Somerset, England, that the interiors whiz Ilse Crawford had recently reworked for a young family. The project was spectacular in its grand but subtle blending of the minimal and the baroque: the ballroom turned family kitchen was particularly envy-making to a staff of square-foot-challenged New Yorkers. But two images really grabbed our attention: one was of a small child reaching up to open a one-off marquetry cabinet, and the other was of a glorious mess of a playroom. The latter -- the former basement kitchen at Dinder House -- was immediately deemed our cover. What we saw in that room was imagination, spontaneity, persistence (all those open-ended projects) and heart. We saw, in essence, the underpinnings of great design. (There's plenty more to see in ''Family Style,'' Page 74.) 
It would be extraordinary to see the rooms Ford Wheeler played in when he was growing up in Southern California in his parents' Modernist house. The production designer and downtown New York legend, profiled on Page 86 by Alix Browne, is one of those rare collectors of vernacular and artisanal everything who actually understands how to create a seamless and emotionally compelling backdrop from amassed ephemera. It's hardly surprising that his collaborations with Jonathan Demme (most recently ''Rachel Getting Married'') are memorable for their characters and not their ceramics. His three homes are a moving tribute to a life well lived and well loved.
Finally, there is Judy Kameon, the garden designer (and painter and home economics aficionado) whose work has riveted the design and fashion community in Southern California. Kameon's refined sense of color and quiet humor create effortless yet intriguing outdoor spaces like the ones seen on Page 80. You are barely aware that you are in a Kameon garden, and once it hits you -- well, then you can't imagine going inside. You feel at home . . . and that's really the point, isn't it? SALLY SINGER

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Home sweet home: Clockwise from top: Ford Wheeler amid his collections
Judy Kameon in her garden laboratory
Jo and Chris Mycock, with their four sons, in their dream house. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANTON CORBIJN
JIMMY FOUNTAIN
STEPHANIE SLEWKA
THE GLOBE AND MAIL
 CRISTINA VATIELLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); GARDENING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



57 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: When David Meets Goliath on the Hardwood

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Houston
The title game is set: UConn will face Butler on Monday for the national championship. But this is not your classic David-and-Goliath tale.
Butler is making its second consecutive appearance in the national championship game. When was the last time David did that? And the Bulldogs have made a habit of pummeling some of the nation's biggest, baddest programs.
In fact, Butler has become such an effective knockout artist that, instead of looking at Monday's matchup from David's perspective, let's look at it -- and the entire tournament -- from Goliath's. 
Counted among the fans drawn to the men's Final Four are a flock of disappointed coaches, athletic directors and presidents who wish they could have been here as participants, not spectators. Their programs spent millions of dollars on head coaches, resources to lure blue-chip athletes and support staff to keep them eligible. They did all of this, only to be upended by a so-called David who, despite spending far less, swooped in and snatched the prize.
I've thought about this for quite some time and more intensely this year when two midmajors -- Butler, an eighth seed, and Virginia Commonwealth, an 11th seed -- reached the Final Four. Butler defeated V.C.U., 70-62, to advance to the national championship game for the second consecutive year.
Goliath rarely gets sympathy, and he's not getting any now. This is simply a suggestion to look at upsets through Goliath's economic prism.
Last year Butler, which spends roughly $10 million annually on its athletic program, including $1.7 million on basketball, defeated Michigan State to reach the national championship game. Michigan State spends more than $58 million to maintain its Big Ten program, with $6.3 million going toward its men's basketball team. Is this really fair?
''It's an accepted way of life,'' said Gene Smith, Ohio State's athletic director. ''There's always a David, there's always a Goliath. Nine times out of 10, Goliath is going to win, and that's why you make the investment.''
Ohio State's athletic budget is a whopping $89,580,305. The men's basketball budget is $4,051,972.
''I would hope that our investment would position our program where we would never get beaten by David,'' Smith said. ''That's why we make the investments we make, so we can be dominant.''
But if the coach of the well-heeled favorite loses too many times to the underdog, ''we've got a problem,'' Smith said. ''The pressure is greater for Goliath.''
Last week V.C.U. extended its tournament ride at the expense of Florida State. Florida State spends more than $56 million, including $3.6 million on its basketball program, to play big-time intercollegiate athletics in the Atlantic Coast Conference. V.C.U.'s athletics budget is a little more than $8 million, with $1.3 million going to basketball.
UConn's athletic budget is $47,359,000, $5.5 million going to basketball. Its coach, Jim Calhoun, is Connecticut's highest-paid state employee. He at least got UConn into the national championship game by winning Saturday's other Final Four game over Kentucky, 56-55, which spends $52,462,483 on its athletic programs, including $6.3 million on basketball.
Having a hot tournament run is one thing, but could Butler compete night in, night out in the Southeastern Conference or the A.C.C.? Barry Collier, Butler's athletic director and its former basketball coach, said the real question is why teams from the power conferences won't engage in home-and-home series with a college like Butler.
Universities in the power conferences traditionally make teams like Butler travel, although the Bulldogs' recent success has changed that arrangement to a degree. Louisville, for example, will play at Butler next season. ''There are a few who will do that,'' Collier said, ''but not as many as we'd like.''
Still, if you look at this from Goliath's perspective, the Butlers of the world might find life tougher on a day-to-day basis in one of the power conferences.
''That would be tough,'' said Leonard Hamilton, the Florida State coach. ''I'm not saying that they couldn't. But more than likely they would have a difficult time.''
Traditionally, we filter March Madness through David's prism, not Goliath's, and why not? Rooting for the underdog is a quaint sports ritual. But Goliath has feelings, too. And expenses. In the end, those are the programs that attract the television ratings and the sponsors that help the tournament, which in turn gives those programs the luster that attracts blue-chip talent. Fans like the idea of underdogs, but viewers like to see battles of the titans, although last year's ratings for the two national semifinal games were the highest they had been in five years. You can make the argument that the presence of Duke helped.
Bobby Fong, the president of Butler, which faced Duke in last season's final, discounted the correlation between big-time programs spending huge sums of money and winning.
''Trying to measure quality by money is a misdirected enterprise,'' Fong said. ''Just like the notion that because we have more missiles we're safer is a fallacy, the idea that spending more money means more wins is misguided. You can invest in the best talent and lure them with great arenas, but that doesn't mean they will beat the team that plays well together.''
Of course, Fong made Butler Coach Brad Stevens the highest-paid coach in the Horizon League -- but he said he did it as a reward, not as a deterrent.
''I think the money has kind of subverted so many of the educational priorities at universities and made life hellish for the N.C.A.A.,'' Fong said. ''The entire model is kind of wrongheaded after a point.''
Wrongheaded, perhaps, and continuing. Large programs like UConn will continue to invest heavily in intercollegiate athletics; medium-sized small ones like Butler will spend much less and hope to catch a giant sleeping.
On Monday, there's good chance that Goliath will have both eyes open. If it doesn't seem right, put yourself in Goliath's shoes.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: Long-Term Commitment: ''I would coach Brandon Knight for the next 15 years,'' Kentucky Coach John Calipari said. ''I don't want Brandon Knight to leave.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); BUDGETS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



58 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Design Well Within Reach

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CANNELL

 BODY:
Every economic slump imprints itself on interior design, each in its own way. Seventy years ago, for instance, a generation of Americans responded to the Great Depression by adopting a functional European design style known as modernism. They bought Alvar Aalto chairs and Russel Wright dinnerware, or, more likely, low-cost alternatives that made their way into the mainstream. Either way, modernism expressed the frugal spirit of the day.
Many of us have wondered what today's version of modernism might be. If design is a gauge of cultural mood, then how will it reflect this period of economic collapse and anxious recovery? 
One answer may be glimpsed in ''Undecorate,'' a book by Christiane Lemieux published last month. Ms. Lemieux, founder of the home-furnishings firm DwellStudio, coined the term ''undecorate'' to describe the surge of riotously eclectic amateur design that rose up during the recent recession. Whereas modernism represented an ideal of frugality for lean times, the undecorate movement offers a kind of populist authenticity in opposition to the polished trappings of a design establishment. The ''democratization of design'' has been a fashionable phrase for years. It may finally have arrived.
Historically, only a fraction of Americans hired architects or interior designers. The rest of us gawked at ipe wood decks and embroidered silk upholstery in home-furnishing magazines. The voyeuristic thrill seems to have worn off, however, during the last three cost-conscious years. The downturn killed a dozen shelter magazines, and the survivors suffered a 30 percent drop in advertising pages from 2007 to 2010, according to the Media Industry Newsletter.
As shelter magazines foundered, up came a new breed of self-curating, design-smart amateurs spurred to resourcefulness by the recession and assisted by the Internet in finding materials and furnishings at deep discounts. The result is an outpouring of homegrown inventiveness -- sofas upholstered with burlap coffee sacks, stereo speakers made from Ikea salad bowls, party decorations conscripted as permanent ornamentation.
Every offbeat detail is critiqued and discussed in the comment fields of design Web sites. For the moment, the grass-roots novices have upstaged the experts. The amateurs ''aspire to a certain level of interior design, but professional help is beyond their reach,'' Ms. Lemieux said. ''So they go at it their own way. Now they're the authorities.''
Ms. Lemieux's amateurs are not trying to imitate the polished work of a master, as, say, the culinary enthusiast Julie Powell did when she faithfully worked her way through the Julia Child oeuvre. On the contrary, the movement -- it's more accurate to call undecorating a movement than a single identifiable style -- takes subversive pleasure in breaking the rules. Harmony and balance are passe. Excess is encouraged. Fabrics are mismatched. Wallpaper spreads over moldings and ceilings.
Anything goes, as evidenced by a Chicago couple who parked an Airstream trailer in their loft. While modernism wagged a disapproving finger at those who dared breach its formal orthogonal lines and rigid color palette, undecorating delights in residential anarchy. ''There's no longer any good or bad,'' said Maxwell Gillingham-Ryan, a founder of Apartment Therapy, a home design blog. ''That new openness is the story. We're all swirling around together.''
Mr. Gillingham-Ryan started his site seven years ago to help galvanize the growing ranks of design-literate amateurs discontented with the role of passive consumer. Its audience has swollen to five million unique visitors a month, an increase of 166 percent in two years.
If Mr. Gillingham-Ryan is the populist hub of the emergent do-it-yourselfers, their aesthetic hero is Todd Selby, a photographer whose three-year-old Web site, the Selby, has become an indie version of Architectural Digest. Organized as a series of visits to the homes of writers, musicians and other creative types, the site shows rooms filled with artful clutter -- taxidermy, thrift shop paintings, exquisitely peeling wallpaper.
The central tenet of the undecorate movement is that personal expression matters more than professional polish. In keeping with that sentiment, the Selby reflects the outlandish, idiosyncratic taste of the residents. ''It's still in the underground phase,'' Mr. Selby said of his sensibility, ''but it's starting to break through.'' Last year Mr. Selby published ''The Selby Is in Your Place,'' a collection of roughly a thousand photographs and sketches from his site.
Will future generations look at snapshots of these ''undecorated'' rooms and recognize this post-recession moment? Perhaps not. Unlike modernism, which looks frozen in amber, the rough-edged amateur aesthetic of the moment acknowledges that real life is in flux. The only guiding principle is that there is no guiding principle.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ANYTHING GOES: The ''undecorate'' movement encourages excess and inventiveness, be it an Airstream trailer placed in a Chicago loft, top, or a combination motorcycle garage/coffee shop in Los Angeles, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MELANIE ACEVEDO, FROM ''UNDECORATE''
 TODD SELBY, FROM ''THE SELBY IS IN YOUR PLACE'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (70%); FABRICS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); PRINT ADVERTISING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



59 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Derek Brown, Paul Kim

 BODY:
Derek Allen Brown and Paul Kang Yoo Kim were married Saturday morning at Meridian Hill Park in Washington. Hayden E. Windrow, a Universal Life minister, officiated. 
Mr. Brown, 40, is a freelance travel photographer in Washington whose work has appeared in magazines and guidebooks. He graduated from New Mexico State University.
He is a son of Marcia A. Chambers of Pittsburg, Tex., and Frederick H. Brown of El Paso, Tex.
Mr. Kim, 33, has been a lawyer at the United States Agency for International Development in Washington. In the fall, he is to be posted to Islamabad, Pakistan, where he is to become a regional legal adviser for the agency. He graduated summa cum laude from Columbia and received a law degree from Yale.
He is a son of Amanda Ahn and Dong Ok Kim, both of Seoul, South Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (88%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW MEXICO STATE UNIVERSITY (58%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



60 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SLIPSTREAM; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: When The Data Struts Its Stuff

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
IN an uncharted world of boundless data, information designers are our new navigators.
They are computer scientists, statisticians, graphic designers, producers and cartographers who map entire oceans of data and turn them into innovative visual displays, like rich graphs and charts, that help both companies and consumers cut through the clutter. These gurus of visual analytics are making interactive data synonymous with attractive data.
''Statistics,'' says Dr. Hans Rosling, a professor of international health at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, ''is now the sexiest subject around.'' 
Dr. Rosling is a founder of Gapminder, a nonprofit group based in Stockholm that works to educate the public about disparities in health and wealth around the world -- by offering animated interactive statistics online that help visitors spot trends on their own.
Hit the play button and an animated graphic, called Gapminder World, shows a constellation of brightly colored bubbles, each representing a different country, bouncing along over two centuries. Without ever having to view yawn-inducing numbers on gross domestic product per capita, you can watch some countries, like the United States, rapidly growing healthier and wealthier before your eyes while smaller bubbles, for countries like Congo, rise on the life expectancy axis even as they dip on the income line.
The advanced animation has let Dr. Rosling make wonky statistics about poverty as intuitive and potentially fascinating for viewers as a nature program about the Serengeti on TV. ''If we show a herd of zebras, and one zebra has a bad leg and lags behind, you can see that immediately,'' says Dr. Rosling, whose video clip from the BBC on health and wealth statistics has been viewed more than four million times on YouTube. ''If one country gets left behind, you can see that, too.''
Visual analytics play off the idea that the brain is more attracted to and able to process dynamic images than long lists of numbers. But the goal of information visualization is not simply to represent millions of bits of data as illustrations. It is to prompt visceral comprehension, moments of insight that make viewers want to learn more.
''The purpose of visualization,'' says Ben Shneiderman, founding director of the Human-Computer Interaction Laboratory at the University of Maryland, ''is insight, not pictures.''
The growing field has implications for companies, governments, academic institutions, nonprofit groups, news organizations and marketers -- just about anybody who tries to convey huge amounts of information in visual, interactive forms. But advances, he says, come with both benefits and risks.
On the benefit side, people become more engaged when they can filter information that is presented visually and make discoveries on their own.
On the risk side, Professor Shneiderman says, tools as powerful as visualizations have the potential to mislead or confuse consumers. And privacy implications arise, he says, as increasing amounts of personal, housing, medical and financial data become widely accessible, searchable and viewable.
''The visual analytics research community works on these issues,'' he says, ''but more needs to be done.''
In the 1990s, Professor Shneiderman developed tree mapping, which uses interlocking rectangles to represent complicated data sets. The rectangles are sized and colored to convey different kinds of information, like revenue or geographic region, says Jim Bartoo, the chief executive of the Hive Group, a software company that uses tree mapping to help companies and government agencies monitor operational data. When executives or plant managers see the nested rectangles grouped together, he adds, they should be able to immediately spot anomalies or trends.
In one tree-map visualization of a sales department on the Hive Group site, red tiles represent underperforming sales representatives while green tiles represent people who exceeded their sales quotas. So it's easy to identify the best sales rep in the company: the biggest green tile. But viewers can also reorganize the display -- by region, say, or by sales manager -- to see whether patterns exist that explain why some employees are falling behind.
''It's the ability of the human brain to pick out size and color'' that makes tree mapping so intuitive, Mr. Bartoo says. Information visualization, he adds, ''suddenly starts answering questions that you didn't know you had.''
For entertainment value, the Hive Group has also posted a tree map of the 100 most popular songs on iTunes, updated every 24 hours.
The fact that serious software companies are now tree mapping the pop charts is a sign that data visualization is no longer just a useful tool for researchers and corporations. It's also an entertainment and marketing vehicle.
In 2009, for example, Stamen Design, a technology and design studio in San Francisco, created a live visualization of Twitter traffic during the MTV Video Music awards. In the animated graphic, floating bubbles, each displaying a photograph of a celebrity, expanded or contracted depending on the volume of Twitter activity about each star. The project provided a visceral way for viewers to understand which celebrities dominated Twitter talk in real time, says Eric Rodenbeck, the founder and creative director of Stamen Design.
Information visualization has changed substantially in the 10 years since the studio has been in business, Mr. Rodenbeck says. Designers once created visual representations of data that would steer viewers to information that seemed the most important or newsworthy, he says; now they create visualizations that contain attractive overview images and then let users direct their own interactive experience -- wherever it may take them.
''It's not about leading with a certain view anymore,'' he says. ''It's about delivering the view that gets the most participation and engagement.''
TO that end, the company has just designed a site for a client, mondowindow.com, that shows airline passengers a detailed satellite map of the landscape they are flying over -- and lets them direct the view.
For passengers with Wi-Fi access who enter their airline and flight number on the site, mondowindow.com displays more than just the terrain below. It also offers information bubbles highlighting different place names, local landmarks and tourist attractions like schools and botanical gardens, and photos of native fauna, like a blue jay.
On the ground, we may live in a world of T.M.I. -- too much information. But Stamen Design is betting that we will relish rich images of ground data when we are flying several miles high. --

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Slipstream column last Sunday, about advances in visual analytics, misstated the relationship of Stamen Design, a firm in San Francisco, to mondowindow.com, which shows airline passengers a satellite map of the landscape below them. Stamen designed the site for a client; it does not own it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A BBC documentary featured Dr. Hans Rosling, a founder of Gapminder, which uses data animation to educate the public about gaps in health and wealth.
Mondowindow.com, by Stamen Design, shows airline passengers detailed visualizations of the ground below them.
 In a Stamen graphic of Twitter traffic during an MTV awards show, the number of tweets about celebrities was reflected in the size of their photos. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHY (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); ANIMATION (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); HUMAN MACHINE INTERACTION (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); TRENDS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); FILM (74%); HORSES (73%); HUMAN FACTORS ENGINEERING (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (72%) UNITED STATES (79%); SWEDEN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011



61 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Translating Your Skills

BYLINE: By SUSAN D. DEVORE. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
MY father was in the military when I was growing up. I was just a baby when we lived in Alaska, so I have no memory of the dogsled rides my family took, or of seasons without darkness. We lived in Alabama during the civil rights movement, but I was too young to appreciate the historical significance. After that we moved to Germany.
My parents expected my seven siblings and me to be independent, to learn to take care of ourselves. In third or fourth grade in Germany, I went to an indoor public swimming pool with friends and got lost returning home. The trip required taking two buses. I got on the wrong one for the second leg of the trip and ended up in a bar on the Rhine River. Even though I didn't speak fluent German, I was able to tell the bartender my name and phone number. Someone called my parents and gave me an ice cream cone while I waited for them to pick me up. Times were different then; it was safer. 
When we returned to the United States, we lived in Pennsylvania for a short time, and when I was 14 we moved to North Carolina. In high school, I worked at a local hospital, writing procedure manuals for nurses. I read about everything that went on in a hospital. I knew then that I wanted to go into the business end of health care.
In 1980, after graduating with a business degree from the University of North Carolina, Charlotte, I got a job as a management consultant at what became Cap Gemini Ernst & Young. When I was leading a health care business unit there, I was given the chance to move to a middle-market division that had some Internet companies as clients.
Shortly after I accepted the assignment, the dot-com bubble burst. Even so, I set a goal of being the No. 1 division in the company a year later. We got to No. 3. Then I led a high-tech group, followed by an entertainment division. After that, I returned to health care.
I was with the company for more than 20 years and rose to senior health care practice leader. I was nervous about taking some of the positions I did, but I learned that I could handle them. I never wanted to regret that I hadn't taken risks. The key is to jump in and ask questions. You learn things that you can apply to other jobs.
I joined Premier in 2003 as the president of Premier Purchasing Partners, our supply chain division, and became chief operating officer of our health alliance three years later. In 2009, I was promoted to C.E.O. Premier has an uncommon business model. We're owned by nonprofit hospitals and health care systems, serving as a group buying organization for them. We receive fees from manufacturers when hospitals buy their medical supplies using our standardized contracts. We also collaborate with our members to improve health care quality and safety, and to lower costs. I like to think we're a profit-making business with a social mission.
A few years ago, I completed the International Masters for Health Leadership program at McGill University in Montreal. The program required several weekends and full weeks on campus. I was the only American in my class.
During the program, executives and public servants from around the world discussed their individual situations. No matter how different the problems seemed initially, it became obvious that health care systems all over the world are facing similar challenges. No nation has managed to develop a perfect health care model that delivers the best quality at the best price, and every model has trade-offs. Hybrid systems, based on public and private partnerships, are emerging around the globe.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SUSAN D. DEVORE: President and C.E.O. of Premier, a health care alliance in Charlotte, N.C. AGE: 52 BIRTHPLACE: Fairbanks, Alaska RECENT VACATION: Hawaii MORNING BEVERAGE: Diet Dr. Pepper (PHOTOGRAPH BY PREMIER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (89%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); HOSPITALS (87%); ICE CREAM (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (68%); NURSES & NURSING (65%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); INTERNET & WWW (63%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (63%)

COMPANY: CAPGEMINI SA (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%)

TICKER: CAP (PAR) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (66%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (66%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (90%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (58%) ALASKA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011



62 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; YOU ARE HERE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: HUNGER GAMES

BYLINE: By ANNIA CIEZADLO

 BODY:
Every Saturday, a fleet of cars and trucks pulls into a windswept parking lot just off the Mediterranean. Under flapping white awnings, women slit open eggplants the size of a large man's thumb and stuff them with a mix of chopped garlic, red peppers and walnuts. This is Souk el Tayeb, the farmers' market that has helped make Beirut a hot destination for globe-trotting foodies. But if you want to see how the new generation of Lebanese really wants to eat, you have to go somewhere else. You have to go to Roadster Diner.
Roadster is a chain of 1950s-Americana restaurants. Its original motto, ''There goes my heart,'' evokes both Elvis and his artery-clogging diet. The Roadster in my Beirut neighborhood had a life-size statue of a grinning black man with huge white teeth singing into a microphone. Unlike the strenuously authentic Lebanese restaurants beloved by tourists and visiting food writers, Roadster's nine retail franchises across Lebanon are always packed with locals. 
In Europe and the United States, the so-called Mediterranean diet -- rich in olive oil, whole grains, fish, fruits and vegetables and wine -- is a multibillion-dollar global brand, encompassing everything from hummus to package trips to Italy, where ''enogastronomic tourism'' rakes in as much as five billion euros a year. Studies at Harvard and elsewhere correlate the Mediterranean diet with lower rates of heart disease, diabetes and depression. In America, health gurus like Mehmet Oz exhort followers to ''eat like a Greek.'' But according to data from the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, Mediterranean people have some of the worst diets in Europe, and the Greeks are the fattest: about 75 percent of the Greek population is overweight. So if the Mediterranean diet is not what people in the Mediterranean eat, then what is it?
Before there was a Mediterranean diet, there was WWII and the food shortages that went along with it. When the fighting was over, Haqvin Mamrol, a researcher in Sweden, showed that mortality from coronary disease declined in Northern European countries during the war. This was, he believed, the result of wartime restrictions on milk, butter, eggs and meat. At about the same time, a Minnesota scientist named Ancel Keys, who had been studying the effects of starvation on a group of volunteer subjects, moved on to study the diets of Midwestern businessmen. He found that these well-fed Americans were more prone to heart disease than were men in war-deprived Northern Europe. Keys postulated that saturated fats led to high levels of cholesterol and from there to cardiovascular disease. To prove it, he initiated a long-term study in seven countries, including Italy and Greece. He concluded that we should cut down drastically on saturated fat and turn to vegetable oils instead. Keys and his wife wrote two best sellers that changed the way Americans ate.
The Mediterranean diet was always a composite. Spaniards love pork; Egyptians, as a rule, do not. In some regions, people made pesto with lard, not olive oil. ''There is no such thing called the Mediterranean diet; there are Mediterranean diets,'' says Rami Zurayk, an agriculture professor at the American University in Beirut. ''They share some commonalities -- there is a lot of fruits and vegetables, there is a lot of fresh produce in them, they are eaten in small dishes, there is less meat in them. These are common characteristics, but there are many different Mediterranean diets.''
The healthy versions of these diets do have one other thing in common: they are what the Italians called ''cucina povera,'' the ''food of the poor.'' In Ancel Keys's day, Mediterraneans ate lentils instead of meat because they had no choice. ''A lot of it is to do with poverty, not geography,'' says Sami Zubaida, a leading scholar on food and culture.
Diet is mostly about desire. The diet that Keys and his colleagues invented bore little resemblance to what Mediterraneans actually wanted to eat. ''I'm not sure whether the prestige of such a diet would be high enough for many of the people in the Mediterranean to follow it,'' says Josef Schmidhuber, a senior economist at the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. ''Because they aspire to a Western diet, which they conflate with prestige and wealth.''
Last year, Unesco added the Mediterranean diet to its list of the world's great intangible cultural treasures in need of safeguarding. Today, more than half the populations of Italy, Portugal and Spain are overweight. In Eastern Mediterranean countries like Lebanon, obesity is growing -- especially among the young, an increasing number of whom are happy to trade their eggplants for French fries and milkshakes at Roadster.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: While Westerners seek local fare in Beirut, many locals prefer the fries at Roadster. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC: If you want to see how the new generation of Lebanese really wants to eat, you have to go to Roadster.
 MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); CHOLESTEROL (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEART DISEASE (89%); OILS & FATS (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (77%); RESTAURANTS (75%); STARVATION (75%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); RETAILERS (70%); TOUR PACKAGES (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%); DIABETES (64%); WORLD WAR II (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%) MIDWEST USA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) LEBANON (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN EUROPE (92%); GREECE (79%); SWEDEN (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



63 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Flirting With Disaster

BYLINE: By THOMAS MALLON. 
Thomas Mallon's most recent novels are ''Bandbox'' and ''Fellow Travelers.''

 BODY:
YOU THINK THAT'S BAD
By Jim Shepard
225 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $24.95.
It's unclear why Jim Shepard tends to collect his short stories under titles that seem more like shrugs: his latest, ''You Think That's Bad,'' follows a 2007 volume called ''Like You'd Understand, Anyway.'' The contents are anything but lackadaisical. Shepard's taut, high-/concept, research-dependent fiction covers a bracing, career-long range of hobbyhorses and obsessions. Nazis, horror movies, aircraft and explorers abound. Historical fiction is typically so ample and epilogic that the ''historical short story'' may seem a contradiction in terms, but Shepard has made himself, in particular, a master of this small, tricky subgenre. (His colleague at Williams College, Andrea Barrett, is another.) 
Shepard has already written a novel about F. W. Murnau, the director of ''Nosferatu,'' the 1922 German film adaptation of ''Dracula,'' and a short story narrated by the Creature from the Black Lagoon. The longest story in this collection, ''Gojira, King of the Monsters,'' explores the career and private life of Eiji Tsuburaya, the special-effects creator of ''Godzilla.'' Tsuburaya struggles with the American mangling of his masterpiece; with memories of a disapproving father who died as a result of the 1923 Tokyo earthquake; and with his own guilt over neglecting his marriage in favor of work. He joins a whole company of bad husbands in Shepard's fiction, emotional withholders who climb mountains, work on the super collider or operate in the ''black world'' of secret defense research. They don't perform well in the domestic sphere.
''Happy With Crocodiles,'' like ''Gojira,'' takes the reader back several decades and into the Far East, where Shepard /recreates an American infantry assault on the Japanese in New Guinea. The callow protagonist battles not only the enemy and the hellish weather but his anxiety about the girlfriend he left behind, who was always more fixated on his brother. Shepard alternates between this dismaying back story and the brutal narrative foreground, and while he convinces us of their shared ''ugliness,'' he courts anti/climax by returning us to teenagers making out in the back seat of a car while we're still being harrowed in the jungle. This back-and-forth method is one he frequently uses to great advantage, but here it may rob an excellent story of the chance to be a great one.
Shepard's acknowledgments sometimes verge on bibliography; ''Victory in Papua: The War in the Pacific'' is one of 11 sources he cites for ''Happy With Crocodiles.'' But anyone who thinks this is overdoing it -- and that the fictional results of such preparation will tend, at best, toward a sort of ''creative nonfiction'' -- is unacquainted with Shepard's ability to accumulate and transform specifics and oddments. There are few writers today with more artful gifts for active, authentic description. Shepard doesn't pick one or two ''telling details''; he propels the reader through whole bravura paragraphs of them. Here, in part, is how it rains on the soldiers in New Guinea: ''Four days into it our clothes started rotting. . . . The mud got into mess kits and stew pots and under/wear and eyes. Guys walked through some areas by holding on to ropes tied tree-to-tree. . . . Shoes were gardens of green mold around the insoles.''
Aided by a collector's love for the diction and lingo of his arcane subjects, Shepard also works splendidly on the level of short phrasing. In ''Happy With Crocodiles,'' the shirt of a just-shot soldier comes ''alive from the inside,'' and in ''Gojira,'' the mobile, miniature special effects of Tsuburaya's idol are ''suitcase jungles.''
When Shepard situates his accomplished antiheroes in the present or near future, he generally has them fending off, or submitting to, catastrophe: burial by avalanche; drowning in the consequences of global warming. ''Poland Is Watching'' becomes the author's ''Right Stuff'': the wives of a mountaineering team sit fuming at home while their husbands go off to the Himalayas to attempt a wintertime ascent of the world's ninth-highest peak. The women back in Poland are able to telephone the men at their encampments, and the narrator, nagged and abashed by his wife's voice, ends up stumbling toward a frozen death that Shepard evokes in one of the lyrical closings he often favors.
Along with his creative obsessives, Shepard has over the years assembled a gallery of middle-school misfits, the best known of them being the Columbine-style killers of his 2004 novel ''Project X.'' We now get, in ''Boys Town,'' an older version of the type, an unemployed, laughed-at, mother-tormented P.T.S.D. veteran who decides to go ''off the grid'' and into the woods with some canned food and a rifle: ''I joined an Owners' Forum on one of the USA Carry Web sites for a little while,'' the narrator explains, ''to get some tips and just talk to somebody. My user name was MrNoTrouble.''
Shepard needs no bibliography for this one -- just his imagination and a little help from the newspapers. He works the story's titular conceit, the old Spencer /Tracy-Mickey Rooney movie, rather hard, but the overall results feel more concentrated and poignant than the ones in ''Project X.'' The unforced first-person narration gives Shepard a smooth vocal success that occasionally eludes him in other stories, when his narrators start speaking with too much of his own smart, stainless-steel articulacy: one talks of somebody ''nego/tiating his solitude''; another remarks upon someone who ''negotiated the burden of her sexual magnetism.''
Shepard's themes and techniques achieve neat alignment in ''The Netherlands Lives With Water,'' a story set 20 or so years in the future, when the Dutch are struggling to keep their feet above water. The main character is a climate researcher for ''the Weak Links Project, an overeducated fire brigade formed to address new vulnerabilities the minute they emerged.'' His wife works in the same urgent field but can't get her husband to be any more emotionally available than Shepard's other men. When she and their child leave for higher ground, the protagonist and the reader are pitifully marooned. The cascading details of the story's water world are as striking and abundant as their New Guinea equivalents. The narrator's mother remembers the Dutch floods of 1953: ''a vast plain of wreckage on the water and the smell of dead fish traveling on the wind, . . . two older boys sitting beside her and examining the silt driven inside an unopened bottle of soda by the force of the waves.''
Only rarely does Shepard meander. ''Classical Scenes of Farewell'' has Etienne Corillaut recounting the pedophiliac serial killings carried out by his lord and master, Gilles de Rais, during the late 1430s: ''He emptied three full basins trying to clean his eyes after a boy's brains had bespattered them.'' Michel Tournier conducted a fictional tour of this charnel house back in the 1980s in ''Gilles & Jeanne,'' and really didn't leave enough bones for Shepard to pick through.
Still, the rarefied material in this book results in remarkably few misfires. When he states his belief that writers ''tend to forget just how many of fiction's pleasures . . . have nonfiction components,'' Shepard is not only defending his method; he's expressing a respect for life itself. His fine contrivances of cerebration and feeling can remind one of Richard Powers at his best. And his preference for historical quests, for real people's big gestures, may help keep American short fiction from falling asleep in the snug little precincts of its usual subject matter.

GRAPHIC:  DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY SHANNON FRESHWATER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (77%); LITERATURE GENRES (77%); HISTORY (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); HORROR FILMS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (74%)

TITLE: You Think Thats Bad (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



64 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Mad Men And Mad Women

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
Republicans hate social engineering, unless they're doing it.
Wishing they had the power to repeal the repeal of ''don't ask, don't tell'' and get back to the repressed ''Mad Men'' world they crave, some conservative lawmakers grumpily quizzed upbeat military brass on Friday.
''We're starting to try to conform the military to a behavior, and I remember going through the military, we took behaviors and we formed it to the military,'' said Representative Allen West of Florida, warning ominously (and weirdly) that ''this could be the camel getting his nose under the tent.'' 
The House Armed Services subcommittee hearing was led by Joe Wilson, the oh-so-subtle Republican congressman from South Carolina famous for yelling ''You lie!'' at President Obama. Wilson started off the hearing by saying that the legislation to let gays stop lying while they risk dying was rushed through in an ''undemocratic'' lame-duck session.
Two top Pentagon officials testified that the transition was going swimmingly, yet Republicans scoffed. Representative Austin Scott of Georgia demanded the price tag. Clifford Stanley, an under secretary of defense, replied that the training materials cost only $10,000.
Scott harrumphed, ''If something was done at D.O.D. for $10,000, I would like to know what it was.'' He said that hundreds of thousands had been spent training a soldier in his district to disarm I.E.D.'s, but the soldier wouldn't re-enlist because of the ''social policy.''
The Democrat Chellie Pingree of Maine jumped in to note that the cost of purging gays between 2004 and 2009 was $193.3 million: ''It's not only unconscionable ... but the costs are horrendous.''
Scott persisted in looking for trouble, even after Vice Adm. William Gortney, director of the joint staff, said the Pentagon had seen no problems so far.
The congressman asked the admiral if he had ever dismissed anyone. Gortney said he had dismissed a young sailor who acknowledged being gay after ''don't ask, don't tell'' first passed.
''Did you discharge him from the service because he was gay?'' Scott asked. ''Or because he violated the standard of conduct?''
''Because he was gay,'' Gortney said.
''He did not violate the standard of conduct before he was dismissed?'' Scott pressed.
''He did not,'' Gortney said.
''Well,'' Scott said, once more at a loss, ''that's not the answer I thought you would give, to be honest with you.''
Gortney assured him there were ''very few cases'' of gays' being dismissed for violating the standard of conduct.
After the Republican rout in November, the story line took hold that because of the recession and Tea Partiers' fervent focus on the debt as a moral matter, divisive social issues were going on the back burner. But lo and behold, social issues have roared back. Many in the Tea Party have joined that chain-smoking, cocktail-quaffing Mad Man John Boehner in the martini party to put a retro focus on wedge issues, from gays to abortion.
Like Boehner, who complained that Democratic leaders were ''snuffing out the America that I grew up in,'' some Tea Partiers are jumping in a time machine. They can't stop themselves from linking social issues to the budget.
''This pulls the mask back a little bit on the Tea Party movement,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen, a Democrat from Maryland. ''Adding riders against Planned Parenthood and gutting the environmental laws indicate that the Tea Party is focused on imposing a right-wing ideological agenda on the country and using the budget as a vehicle.''
Whether it's upholding the Defense of Marriage Act, trying to defund Planned Parenthood, or aiming cuts at the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Endowment for the Arts, NPR and even AARP, House Republicans are in a lather that occludes their pledges to monomaniacally work on the economy.
When Mitch Daniels, the Indiana governor and Republican presidential aspirant, dared to urge his party to ''mute'' social issues, he was smacked.
''We cannot repair the economy without addressing the deep cultural issues that are tearing apart the family and society,'' said Andy Blom of the American Principles Project. The presidential hopeful Rick Santorum even posited last week that abortions might be breaking the bank on Social Security.
The snowball of social rage will speed up as we head toward 2012, given that the Iowa caucuses are dominated by social conservatives. Pawlenty, Barbour and Huckabee have already talked about vitiating the repeal of ''don't ask, don't tell.''
Because independent voters considered President Obama too partisan in his debut, they shifted their loyalties -- and swept in one of the most ideological and partisan Republican caucuses in history. Now Obama will get back some of the independents because he seems reasonable by comparison.
One thing independents like to be independent of is government meddling in their personal lives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%)

PERSON: AUSTIN SCOTT (79%); JOE WILSON (73%); ALLEN WEST (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); CHELLIE PINGREE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



65 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Grabbing Vacation Rental Deals

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
LAST year, Katie and J. B. Heaton of Chicago waited until March to book a summer rental on the shores of Lake Michigan for their family vacation, choosing a prime, $9,800-a-week, lake-view, five-bedroom house with private beach access and a swimming pool. ''It was easy for us,'' said Mrs. Heaton, noting the wide array of rentals to choose from. ''We could pick our weeks.''
But this year, the Heatons found themselves scrambling to get the rental they wanted. ''My husband looked at the listing in January and sent me an e-mail saying, 'You better get on this because there are only a couple of weeks available,' '' said Mrs. Heaton, who had to quickly settle for a second choice of vacation dates in August because the competition was so stiff. ''We wanted the week before, but it was already booked,'' she said. 
Message to travelers looking for a summer rental: Better get a move on. Across the country -- from Cape Cod to the Jersey Shore, from the Outer Banks of North Carolina to the Oregon Coast -- real estate agents and rental companies say vacation rentals are filling up fast, with bookings in some spots up 20 percent or more compared with last year. ''Currently 90 percent of our oceanfront homes are completely booked for this summer,'' said Brian Olson, general manager for business development of Cannon Beach Vacation Rentals in Oregon, noting that the largest homes are going the quickest. ''We have also not found a need to offer any discounts for the summer months.''
A combination of factors is contributing to the increasingly tight summer rental market: the number of rentals has stabilized as new construction slowed during the down economy; rising gas prices are making vacations closer to home look more attractive; and an improving economy means travelers are more willing to spend on a getaway.
''People are feeling more secure about their jobs and are willing to make the commitment earlier this year,'' said Rob Wichland, owner of Bayside Rentals, where reservations are ahead of last year by about 30 percent for the roughly 150 properties the company manages in New Hampshire's popular Lake Winnipesaukee area.
All of this means less bargaining power for renters who had become accustomed to getting a deal at the last minute over the past few years, when landlords were more inclined to negotiate. But there are still opportunities for those who act quickly. While bookings are up, rates have generally held steady, and some markets, like the ones below, still have plenty of availability. A few are even offering deals.
But don't wait long. Those who do, said Rick Hoffman, the Corcoran Group's regional senior vice president for the Hamptons (where summer bookings have more than doubled since last year), ''will just be picking up the dregs.''
OUTER BANKS, NORTH CAROLINA Even though bookings are ahead of last year, there is still plenty to choose from along North Carolina's barrier islands, with some properties offering incentives to those who book now. Earlier this month, for example, Outer Banks Blue Realty Services in Kitty Hawk was offering a special weekly rate of $3,995 for a six-bedroom, five-bath beach home in Corolla for the middle of July, normally $4,295.
''The last week of July and the first week of August are the two most heavily booked at this time,'' said Tim Cafferty, president of Outer Banks Blue Realty Services, which handles beach rentals from Corolla to Nags Head. And the last weeks in August, when rental rates begin to go down, are also going fast. Rates dip by about 15 percent by Aug. 15, he said, and drop another 10 percent or so by Aug. 20. By Aug. 27 rates go down an additional 10 to 15 percent.
COASTAL MAINE AND NEW HAMPSHIRE LAKES REGION A relatively stagnant real estate market means a glut of rental properties and lower rates for renters in Maine. ''The market is pretty saturated with rental properties up here,'' said Justin Ford, owner of On the Water in Maine, which manages some 200 properties up and down the coast. Weekly rental rates for the company are down $134 to an average of $1,833 compared with $1,967 in 2010, he said. Even in peak season, from the last week of July through most of August, travelers will find deals like the Shooting Star Cottage, a three-bedroom 75 feet from the ocean in Friendship, Me., which is $1,600 for a week in July -- $300 less than last year. ''If you want to come up in June and July or September,'' Mr. Ford said, ''you can negotiate and do whatever you want.''
Demand for rentals is up in the Lakes Region of Central New Hampshire, but rents, which declined between 10 to 15 percent in the down economy according to Bayside Rentals, haven't gone up, so there is still good value for those who act fast. ''You could rent a nice three-bedroom off the water with water access for $1,200,'' said Rob Wichland of Bayside. ''That same property on the water could be $3,500.''
Preferred Vacation Rentals, which handles more than 300 rental homes, is offering 50 percent off the second consecutive week on a limited number of rentals within a half-mile of a community beach, including a four-bedroom, two-bath chalet at Suissevale in Moultonboro, N.H., from $1,600 a week.
NEW JERSEY SHORE From Asbury Park to Cape May, beach homes along the Jersey Shore are filling up faster and earlier, in a reversal of the previous summer. ''Last year everyone was in panic mode because it came so close to summer and the weeks were not booked, so everyone was negotiating for the best price last minute,'' said Kate Brown, rental manager at Homestead Real Estate in Cape May. ''I definitely think we are going to see less of that this year.'' The good news: ''Most homeowners have decided not to raise their rates,'' she said. Don't expect to find a deal on anything close to the water. Travelers looking to save should ''shop in that 7-to-10-blocks-away-from-the-beach range,'' Ms. Brown said.
ALABAMA COAST Even though the beaches have been cleaned up, tourism is still down following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill last spring. ''As 2010 closed and 2011 began, we were left with the harsh reality that 2011 was going to be another trying year with a great deal of ground to make up,'' said Emily Eiland Gonzalez, marketing director for Kaiser Realty in Gulf Shores. As a result, she said, the company has not raised rates since 2009 and is offering discounts of as much as 25 percent. For example, travelers who use the code ''UP'' when booking a Kaiser Realty condo on the eighth floor or above for at least three nights receive 25 percent off through Aug. 4.
GREAT SMOKY MOUNTAINS, TENNESSEE While bookings are on the upswing, rates are still attractive for cabins in Gatlinburg and Pigeon Forge near Great Smoky Mountains National Park. For $99 a night renters can get a private cabin ''with a great view and a hot tub on the deck,'' said Emily Plimpton, office manager of Cabins for You in Gatlinburg. Dollywood Vacations, which manages 85 vacation rentals just outside Dolly Parton's theme park in Pigeon Forge, is extending a sixth-night-free offer through summer.
''Although the traditional summer holidays are seeing heavy activity,'' said Trish McGee, publicist for Dollywood Vacations, ''we still have accommodations available throughout the 2011 season.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SHAW NIELSEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); LAKES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BEACHES (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



66 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths ROSNER, DOROTHY ABEL

 BODY:
ROSNER--Dorothy Abel, 88, died peacefully at home March 28, 2011, devoted children Barbara and Andy at her side. She was born December 27, 1922 in Brooklyn, NY, to Samuel and Mollie Abel, and is predeceased by her husband Harry (1996), brother William Abel and sister Ada Sterling. 
A first generation American, she graduated Thomas Jefferson High (1938); Brooklyn College (1942); and Teachers College Columbia (1945) with an MA in Foods and Nutrition. A brief stint teaching Home Economics in New York City was followed by a tour with the American Red Cross in the Philippines and on Okinawa as Club Director (Typhoon Terrace) in Services to the Armed Forces (1945-46), while her brother served overseas. She married Harry Rosner, CPA and lawyer in 1950. They moved from Brooklyn to New Rochelle, NY to raise their family: Barbara and Andy of N. California, David (Gloria) of Irvington, NY, and Martha of Boulder, CO. She was renowned for her hospitality, and her horticultural and culinary talents. She later worked as a nutritionist in the WIC program at New Rochelle Hospital. Her last professional assignment was real estate associate for Coldwell Banker in Larchmont, NY. In 2003 she relocated to San Jose, CA to be close to her California children. In San Jose she was active in the Willow Glen AARP chapter, serving two years as President. She will be greatly missed by Barbara and Andy, family and friends. Memorial service to be held in California.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (77%); NUTRITION (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (69%); RELOCATIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (57%); AARP INC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



67 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Certainties of 1970s Energy Crisis Have Fallen Away

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH. 
kgalbraith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Unrest in the Middle East, rising oil prices and frustration with federal energy policy -- for Texans of a certain age, today's headlines must seem like deja vu. The current situation is far less severe than the aftermath of the 1973 Arab oil embargo. But the parallels are unmistakable.
Back then, state officials strongly criticized federal price controls for natural gas because they reduced the incentive to hunt for new supplies. Today, Texas policy makers rage at Washington for moving too slowly to approve leases for deepwater offshore drilling, and for imposing tight environmental controls that could hinder power plants and refineries. 
Still, one lesson Texas could take from the 1970s is that what seems clever today may not remain so tomorrow. A classic example involves the trade-offs between coal and natural gas power. In the mid '70s, convinced that gas supplies were running out, state regulators ordered electric utilities to reduce their use of the fuel. So they started burning coal instead.
Today, some state officials are urging the opposite. Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst has voiced support for phasing out the oldest coal plants and increasing natural gas power in their place. Far from running out, Texas' gas supplies have expanded rapidly in recent years with better technology and the discovery of new shale formations. Coal is now vilified -- outside Texas, at least -- as contributing to climate change and emitting pollutants, and environmentalists are eager to shut down '70s-era coal plants.
''We are a fickle people,'' said Michael Webber, the associate director of the Center for International Energy and Environmental Policy at the University of Texas.
Nationally, Mr. Webber said, a 1978 law barred utilities from building new gas power plants. The policy effectively aided coal but was rescinded in 1987.
The '70s were also when Texas began building nuclear power plants, which went forward despite concerns about ballooning costs and waste storage. Those issues have added resonance today, with potential expansions at Texas' two nuclear plants almost certainly delayed in the wake of the crisis in Japan.
Advocates of renewable energy also see the '70s as a missed opportunity. Gov. Dolph Briscoe Jr., a Democrat, called for a federal Manhattan Project to find an environmentally friendly and secure mix of fuel sources, which would include solar, geothermal and nuclear fusion.
Months before the 1973 embargo, Mr. Briscoe formed an energy advisory council headed by his lieutenant governor, Bill Hobby, and the group ordered studies on a variety of fuels -- including one on wind power in 1974 and another, in 1977, on a portfolio of options including solar, wind, biomass and even exotics like algae. Policy makers were aware that oil and gas production in Texas had peaked in 1972, according to the author of the 1977 report, Robert J. King, who still heads a clean-energy consulting firm in Austin.
The only alternative to succeed on a large scale, however, has been wind power, and most of that growth did not occur until the past decade.
Energy conservation, a fact of life during the '70s, has also largely been abandoned -- although Texas today uses energy more efficiently than it did decades ago, meaning that the state's economic output per unit of energy is far greater.
In November 1973, just a month after the embargo began, Mr. Briscoe decried the ''wasteful use of energy in every segment of our society.'' He asked state agencies to use less fuel, buy small cars and set thermostats to 65 degrees in the winter. He had put a brigadier general, James M. Rose, in charge of the Energy Conservation Task Force, and Mr. Rose delivered regular updates on the falling use of electricity and natural gas at the Capitol, even seeking to adjust the schedules of the building's janitors so they would not waste light at night.
In today's environment, where eight-hour rolling blackouts in February prompted outrage, such pronouncements by a Texas politician would be politically unthinkable.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In the '70s regulators in Texas encouraged the use of coal to generate electricity. Times have changed, and the Martin Lake coal plant near Tatum, which began operating in the late '70s, has been singled out by an environmental group that wants to close it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM PENNINGTON FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); WIND ENERGY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); BIOMASS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); WIND POWER PLANTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



68 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Want to Increase Voting? Discounts Seem to Work

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
Tuesday elections in Chicago and Cook County will inspire dismal turnouts, perhaps 25 percent countywide. But there's a potential remedy: discount coupons for rock climbing.
I came upon this remedy for the United States' somnolent electoral politics while attending the annual gathering of the Midwest Political Science Association. It's a fascinating, if too easily parodied intellectual marathon that lures 4,500 attendees from around the world to the Palmer House Hilton.
Indeed, the odds of running into a political scientist in recent days have been far higher than those for picking Butler and Virginia Commonwealth to make the Final Four. 
They are prowling the convention and downtown with their satchels, paper coffee cups and the phone-book-size, 530-page guide to hundreds of panels and papers being delivered: esteemed academics, bright-if-not-yet-esteemed academics and nervous, job-desperate doctoral students straining to make connections in an awful market.
If you don't inspect that guide closely, you can easily walk into the wrong room, as I did Friday. Instead of finding an Ohio University professor's analysis of all the James Bond movies and how their depiction of masculinity reflects changing cultural attitudes toward gay men, I got a University of Missouri professor discussing ''Hierarchical Model of Democratic Attitude: Cognition, Affection and Conation.''
With all due respect to conation, I split for Bond -- James Bond -- complete with a video clip of the incumbent spy, the actor Daniel Craig, being tortured. I stuck around long enough to catch a Sam Houston State University academic's analysis of how the TV series ''24'' might have shaped popular notions of torture (in sum, a bit unclear).
Over all, a journalist can't help but be reminded that many issues are more complicated than we figure, especially in our sound-bite media culture. There are benefits to having a historical perspective and reconsidering long-held assumptions.
That impulse got me to ''Voting Costs and Incentives,'' a look at a much-inspected topic: what spurs people to vote and how one might get more to do so.
The session was led by Brian Gaines of the University of Illinois, with papers from young academics at Utah State University, the University of Pittsburgh and the University of Oxford.
As Mr. Gaines suggested later, an experiment by Damon Cann of Utah State was the most intriguing. He took things down a slightly new road by offering overt financial incentives to citizens of River Heights, Utah.
Mr. Cann would knock on a door and randomly offer postelection discount coupons for French fries, fried chicken and, yes, even rock climbing ($30 discount) if he confirmed that the occupants had voted. For another group, he simply used oral persuasion to try to get them to vote.
The result was that old-fashioned oral persuasion increased turnout by 4 percent, while the economic incentives jacked it up by another 9 percent. ''Even very small incentives seem to work,'' said Mr. Gaines, who noted how it was not at all clear that liberalizing early, absentee and so-called motor voting had made much difference in turnout.
He conceded that there were prospective ethical perils, given the illegality of a candidate's offering such lures specifically in return for a favorable vote. As to whether a county or city government could offer general incentives just to vote, he wasn't sure.
The research unavoidably raises larger questions about whether voting is an unambiguous good. Should we prod people to vote even if they might be clueless about what they're doing? Democrats generally like facilitating voting; Republicans do not, tending to fear that newcomers won't be with them.
The marathon ends Sunday with panels and papers that include ''Rebels, Aid and Refugee-Camp Militarization in South Asia'' and one on improving our electoral process.
You could check out that last one, get depressed and hope somebody offers you a $30 rock-climbing discount to vote Tuesday. Then again, the Utah professor gave one to a 65-year-old woman and doesn't think she used it. Fried chicken is probably safer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); MEN (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); CLIMBING (72%); FILM (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) UTAH, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



69 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Looking Beyond the Banks

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
MORTGAGE lenders that are not banks acquired a bad reputation during the housing crisis, when now-defunct players like Countrywide Financial and Ameriquest Mortgage came to light as purveyors of risky, high-priced loans, often to subprime borrowers with less-than-stellar credit.
So-called nonbank lenders are trying to stage a comeback now, through two relatively new lobbying groups based in Washington that are seeking to burnish the image of those nonbank lenders that steered clear of risky lending. 
While a few nonbank lenders still offer higher-risk loans with exorbitant rates, others, including stalwarts like LendingTree and Quicken Loans, sell plain-vanilla fixed-rate or adjustable-rate loans that are marginally cheaper than those from big banks.
Many borrowers are suspicious of the loans offered by smaller, nonbank lenders. ''Most consumers say, 'Who are these people?' but the fact is that these are mainstream loans with good pricing,'' said Glen Corso, the managing director of the Community Mortgage Banking Project, a trade group of 43 nonbank lenders.
Some nonbank lenders say they are seeing a steady increase in business from middle-income borrowers who may be unable to get a loan elsewhere.
''So far this year, we're up 15 to 20 percent in the total value of loans we make,'' compared with last year, said David Wind, the president of Guaranteed Home Mortgage, a nonbank lender in White Plains, N.Y.
Mr. Wind said the average loan amount in the New York City area was $240,000, compared with $220,000 a year ago, an indication that higher-end customers were seeking out nonbank lenders amid tighter underwriting standards at the larger banks. Because nonbank lenders tend to be smaller and have lower operating costs, he said, they can offer rates that are 0.125 to 0.375 percentage points below those offered by major banks.
The nonbank lenders extend money through one of two methods: the lenders have a line of credit with big banks and funnel that money to consumers in the form of home loans, or they collect money from private investors to lend to consumers. (The most recent data from the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council showed there were 914 nonbank lenders nationwide at the end of 2009.)
It is the second category that borrowers need to be wary of, said Diane Thompson, a lawyer at the National Consumer Law Center, because the interest rates may be significantly higher.
Nonbank lenders with lines of credit from big banks often find themselves with the same tough underwriting standards as the banks, said Stephen Adamo, the president of Weichert Financial Services, a nonbank lender in Morris Plains, N.J.
Still, Mr. Wind admits that nonbank lenders still have a battered reputation among consumers to overcome. ''There's a tremendous image problem,'' he said.
And the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has made regulation and oversight of nonbank lenders a priority.
Enter the Community Mortgage Banking Project and Community Mortgage Lenders of America, both created in 2009 to promote the interest of nonbank lenders. ''Nonbank lenders don't have the name recognition of a Wells Fargo or a Bank of America, so they have to compete on price,'' Mr. Corso said.
He said that contrary to popular belief many nonbank lenders these days do not offer subprime or other risky loans, and instead were offering conventional mortgages or loans backed by insurance from the Federal Housing Administration.
But Ms. Thompson advised home buyers, especially those who aren't inclined to comparison shop or read the fine print in lending disclosures, to stick with a bricks-and-mortar bank. ''There's a long track record which indicates that this is where consumers will get the best deal,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (79%); SUBPRIME LENDING (79%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); STATISTICS (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); LOBBYING (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%)

COMPANY: CONSUMER LAW CENTER (62%); WEICHERT FINANCIAL SERVICES (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (62%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (62%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



70 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1696 words

HEADLINE: Why Buy? You Can Spend Tons Renting

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
ON a recent Sunday afternoon, as filmgoers at the AMC Loews Lincoln Center settled in with their tubs of popcorn and vats of soda to see the new thriller ''Limitless,'' what seemed like a traditional movie trailer began.
Between the sweeping shots of Manhattan fast-paced cuts showed glimpses of city landmarks, bustling streets, crowded subways and strollers ambling over the Brooklyn Bridge. As the pulse of the music intensified, New York was depicted in constant motion, with clouds racing above the soaring towers, and with one newcomer to the skyline -- its undulating steel skin glistening gold in the sunshine -- playing a starring role.
As the trailer ended, four simple words flashed onto the screen: ''New York by Gehry.''
It was not a teaser for the newest Hollywood blockbuster. The pitch was for the latest addition to the luxury high-rise rental market in the city, a 76-story tower designed by Frank Gehry at 8 Spruce Street, on the edge of the financial district. 
The feature film that followed, ''Limitless,'' explores what happens when someone taps the full potential of his brain. The Gehry building -- along with a dozen other new large-scale luxury rental buildings that have gone on the market in the last year -- is testing the limits of the price renters will pay for what developers call ''aspirational living.''
Even in a city not known for restraint when it comes to displays of wealth and status the properties -- with their tens of thousands of square feet dedicated to amenities like private screening rooms, sprawling gyms and even a dog spa -- are something new in the rental market.
The decision by developers to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on rental projects that in past years would most likely have been high-end condos was driven by a number of factors.
In the boom years, developers say, the market was oversaturated with new luxury condo construction. At the same time, and even in the worst period of the recession, rental vacancy rates in Manhattan remained low, never creeping above 3 percent. As lending tightened banks leery of new home construction were more willing to finance rental projects. Then, even that financing dried up. As a result the new mega-rental complexes have the field to themselves, at least for the time being, as few similarly ambitious projects are on the horizon.
More fundamentally people are questioning whether it makes more sense to buy or rent a home in what remains a fragile and often confounding market. Developers are betting that at least for now even those with the money to buy may choose to hang on the sidelines and rent, even if it costs them some very big dollars.
Prices at many of these new luxury rental buildings start as much as 20 percent higher than similar properties already on the market. At the Beatrice in Midtown, for instance, the starting price for studios is more than $3,000 a month; one-bedrooms start at $4,500; and the four penthouses $20,000 per month. Those prices are similar to 8 Spruce Street, where rents start at $2,630 a month for studios and top out at $25,000 a month for three-bedroom penthouses.
MaryAnne Gilmartin, an executive vice president of Forest City Ratner, which developed the Gehry building, said that when the project was taking shape in 2007 including 200 condo units on the top floors was ''seriously contemplated.''
''It seemed worth studying because you could create something very special,'' Ms. Gilmartin said. But it was the height of the condo craze, before the bust. ''We saw the potential oversupply of condos and we were taken aback by it,'' she said.
Forest City Ratner had wiggle room, because it had bought the land in 2004, when land prices were less expensive. By 2007 land prices were so high that most developers thought they could make money only by building condos.
''We believed there would not be a tremendous number of new rentals,'' she said.
The decision to make the entire building rental, with 901 apartments, now seems prescient. But in the end it will all come down to whether the apartments at 8 Spruce Street are priced correctly.
Ms. Gilmartin said that she believed that upscale rental properties appealed to ''a generation of young people who don't have the same interest in buying,'' and people living an ''untethered'' lifestyle. There are also those who might have trouble securing a mortgage and older people looking to downscale, she said, echoing other developers.
At a time when potential buyers are still worried about the future of the real estate market, developers believe the best way to win tenants in a competitive environment is to offer renters the perks that once came only with upscale condo complexes.
The latest entry into the field is MiMA, a 63-story glass tower on 42nd Street between 9th and 10th Avenues in Midtown Manhattan that started offering rental leases on its 500 apartments last month. Among its list of attractions are exclusive access to the M Club, ''a 44,000-square-foot hand-crafted amenity space that caters to and enhances the daily lives of residents.''
Even its arty-sounding name is a measure of its ambition. MiMA, an abbreviation for middle of Manhattan, is an attempt to rechristen a neighborhood long known as plain old Midtown West or, more ominously, Hell's Kitchen.
While offering ample room for luxuries like a full-size basketball court and a residents-only Equinox gym, Gregory H. Gushee, a senior vice president of Related, the project's developer, said the units were configured in such a way as to get 500 rentals where plans had initially called for 460. Even though rents start at $3,300 for a small studio, Mr. Gushee said that he was confident that the top-tier service would justify top-tier prices.
''I think there will be a few years of rents just going up because there is nothing being built,'' he said.
Renters may be paying more, but they aren't getting more space in many of the new buildings. Developers say that renters do not make the same price-per-square-foot calculation as buyers, and that smaller apartments -- with some studios less than 500 square feet and larger one-bedrooms barely topping 1,000 square feet -- will not discourage the target audience. And while computer-assisted layouts have often been employed to make the most efficient use of every inch of space, these buildings frequently provide rooms for giving parties, screening movies and entertaining guests.
MiMA, where renters will start moving in April 15, joins buildings including the 60-story Silver Towers at 610-620 42nd Street with 1,276 rental units; the 52-story Beatrice at 839 Avenue of the Americas with 301 rentals; the sprawling T. F. Cornerstone project that stretches several blocks along West 37th Street with more than 1,000 rental units; and the Ohm, a bit farther south in Chelsea at 312 11th Avenue, a 34-story building with 369 rental units. Additionally, two smaller projects are in the mix, the 101-unit +aRt at 537 West 27th Street and the 89-unit Port 10 at 303 10th Avenue.
All these projects were completed in 2010, the last chapter of a building boom that stretched through much of the decade.
On the Upper West Side, several luxury rental buildings of similar scale also opened over the course of 2010, including the 42-story Aire at 200 West 67th Street, with 310 rentals; the Corner at 200 West 72nd Street, with 192 rentals on 19 floors; the Ashley at 400 West 63rd, with 209 rentals on 25 floors; and the Aldyn, a 40-story building with 136 rental units at 60 Riverside Boulevard. In some of the buildings, like the Aldyn, +aRt and MiMA, condominiums are also in the mix.
Gary L. Malin, the president of Citi Habitats, one of the largest residential rental brokers in New York, said that the roughly 3,000 new luxury rental units on the market in the past year might seem too much for the city to absorb, but in reality were just a drop in the bucket. Many of the buildings that opened in 2010 are already nearing full occupancy, he said.
What all the buildings share are soaring prices.
Yet while the top-priced apartments costing tens of thousands of dollars a month have received a lot of the attention, they make up a relatively small fraction of the inventory.
It will be the leasing of studios and one- and two-bedrooms that will determine the success of the projects, developers say.
For renters like Christy McCullough, who was one of the first to snap up an apartment at the Corner on the Upper West Side, renting simply made more sense than buying.
''We were looking to downsize,'' Ms McCullough said in an interview in her impeccably appointed, sunny one-bedroom apartment. One-bedrooms in the building start at about $5,000 a month.
She was so thrilled with the place that she signed a two-year lease; her daughter is also renting an apartment in the building.
When the buildings opened many developers were offering breaks for renters, like paying broker's fees and a month's rent for one-year lease, which adds up quickly, given the prices.
The Corner, nearly full, is no longer offering incentives.
Jeffrey E. Levine, the president of Levine Builders, which operates Douglaston Development, which built the Ohm in Chelsea, said that until last year high-end rental projects were taking something of a beating.
If developers had projected getting $65 per square foot, he said, they received closer to $50 per square foot because of the many concessions.
But the tide began to turn in 2010, just as many of the more ambitious projects were coming onto the market. The Ohm is now fully leased and is concentrating on renewals.
If taking a hit in the beginning by offering incentives helps fill up a building, Mr. Levine said, it is worth it because when it comes time for renewals there is less pressure to offer incentives not only to new renters, but also to those already in the building.
Developers like to keep the monthly rents at the peak of what they think the market will bear, because it is much harder to raise rents than it is to cut incentives.
And in the end even the Gehry building, celebrated by both architectural critics and casual observers for what it looks like on the outside, has to convince people to pay for what is on the inside.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FRESH OFF THE LINE: Luxury rental buildings in Manhattan include, from far left, New York by Gehry, 8 Spruce Street
MiMA, 450 West 42nd Street
the Beatrice, 839 Avenue of the Americas
Aire at 200 West 67th Street
and Silver Towers, 610-620 42nd Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
PIONEER: Christy McCullough downsized to a one-bedroom at the Corner, a new luxury rental building on the Upper West Side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE KOHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
NEW TO THE SKYLINE: New luxury rental buildings in Manhattan include, below, from far left, Port 10 at 303 10th Avenue
505 West 37th Street by T. F. Cornerstone
Ohm, 11th Avenue at 30th Street
the Corner at 200 West 72nd Street
and +aRt in Chelsea, whose condo entrance is shown. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES
MIKE APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (69%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



71 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: When a Lawsuit Is Too Big

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Can a class-action lawsuit be too sprawling to deliver old-fashioned justice?
Justice Antonin Scalia seems to think so, judging by his comments on Tuesday during the Supreme Court argument in the biggest employment discrimination class action in history.
''We must have a pretty bad judicial system,'' he said, reflecting on what he had just heard from a lawyer for hundreds of thousands of women suing Wal-Mart over what they say was unfair treatment on pay and promotions. The lawyer had said that a trial judge could rely on statistical formulas rather than testimony and personnel records to decide how much money the company would have to pay each plaintiff if it lost.
''Is this really due process?'' Justice Scalia asked.
In other words, does the impersonality of the suit threaten its ability to be fair to each plaintiff and to Wal-Mart, the country's biggest private employer? 
The mass production of justice through class actions can indeed test the limits of the role that courts play in society. But the enormous size of modern institutions, it has been argued, requires efficient, streamlined procedures like class actions to address their failures.
''We are in the domain of mass litigation in mass society, where the private lawsuit is a regulatory enterprise,'' said Samuel Issacharoff, a law professor at New York University.
''You need to have mechanisms of enforcement that correspond to the scale of the economic activity.''
Suzette M. Malveaux, a law professor at Catholic University in Washington, agreed that class actions have an important role to play in many cases, particularly those involving fraud and discrimination.
''It's a balancing act between efficiency and fairness,'' she said.
The issue tends to divide lawyers and scholars along ideological lines.
Conservatives and business groups say class actions are a form of regulation through litigation and insert courts into matters better left to administrative bodies. Consumer and civil rights lawyers counter that without class-action treatment, grave but widely dispersed wrongs would never be addressed.
The day after the Wal-Mart argument, a prominent federal appeals court judge issued an opinion in a similar but smaller case, this one brought by about 500 women against Rolls-Royce.
How far class-action procedures ''can be stretched is the issue in the gigantic class action against Wal-Mart now before the Supreme Court,'' Judge Richard A. Posner of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Chicago wrote for a unanimous three-judge panel, ruling against class-action treatment.
''The present case is not as big a stretch,'' he said, ''but it is big enough.''
Judge Posner said he was concerned about the due process rights of so-called absent class members: women who would be bound by the result in the case even though they had not volunteered for it and had no right to opt out and sue on their own. And he added that something more than a ''mechanical computation'' was needed to decide who gets how much money should the women win. Rather, he said, the case would require ''500 separate hearings.''
Perhaps the most counterintuitive wrinkle in the typical class action is that only a handful of named plaintiffs have agreed to be represented by the lawyers who brought the case. Yet all of the class members will be held to the results those lawyers achieve.
''Ordinarily, you enforce your own rights,'' Professor Malveaux said. ''Here, someone is representing you without your consent. We only allow that in exceptional circumstances.''
She added that the Wal-Mart case qualified for the exception. ''The idea of every woman coming forward and challenging their store manager is really unlikely,'' she said.
Richard Epstein, a law professor at New York University, disagreed, noting that the plaintiffs in the Wal-Mart case are suing over ''decentralized personnel decisions'' in thousands of stores.
''You want to wring your hands,'' he said. ''This case is so crazy.''
At the argument last week, some of the justices appeared sympathetic to the plaintiffs' complaint but wary about the courts' ability to handle so large a case.
''They think it's too difficult to administer a viable claim,'' Professor Epstein said of those justices. ''I think it's too difficult to administer a wildly improbable claim.''
Class actions can also distort the usual incentives in the adversary system, offering more rewards for lawyers than for plaintiffs. Sometimes lawyers win only very modest compensation for their clients -- a coupon for a discount on the very product said to be flawed, say -- even as they themselves claim handsome fees. But few observers contest that there are cases in which class actions perform an invaluable role.
''The place where they basically work well,'' Professor Issacharoff said, ''is antitrust, securities and civil rights injunctions.'' In those cases, he said, the plaintiffs all suffered precisely the same harm from the defendant's actions. Often, the plaintiffs would have no incentive to file suits one by one but can obtain redress by joining together.
Roger H. Trangsrud, a law professor at George Washington University, catalogued what he called important class action successes in a 2008 law review article. The procedure has been used, he said, ''to reform police practices, to obtain access to abortion services, to desegregate public schools, to improve prison conditions and to change abusive policies in mental institutions.''
But those kinds of suits raise the separate issue of whether courts are intruding on areas better left to legislators and regulators.
''Using litigation to try and effect policy changes has always been controversial,'' said Deborah R. Hensler, a law professor at Stanford.
In 1997, rejecting an effort to settle the claims of ''hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions'' of people exposed to asbestos through a $1.3 billion class action, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg traced the history of attempts to bind together many claims in a single suit.
''Class-action practice has become ever more 'adventuresome' as a means of coping with claims too numerous to secure their 'just, speedy and inexpensive determination' one by one,'' she wrote, quoting from the rules governing class actions and commentary on them.
Some problems, she said, are too big for the courts and require Congressional action.
A court decision certifying a class (that is, permitting people to sue as a group) can in any event place enormous pressure on the defendant to settle, as Judge Dennis G. Jacobs of the federal appeals court in New York wrote in a 2001 dissent.
''Even a defendant who is innocent and holy may rationally choose to pay a few hundred million dollars in settlement of a class action rather than run the risk of ruinous liability,'' Judge Jacobs wrote.
The majority opinion in that case, which allowed millions of merchants to band together in an antitrust suit, was written by Judge Sonia Sotomayor, who would join the Supreme Court in 2009.
''The effect of certification on parties' leverage in settlement negotiations is a fact of life for class-action litigants,'' she wrote. ''While the sheer size of the class in this case may enhance this effect, this alone cannot defeat an otherwise proper certification.''
The case was settled for $3 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ALL IN: Supporting the class action at the Supreme Court on Tuesday. Somes justices seemed skeptical. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ED NACIONAL)(WK1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (95%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); CLASS ACTIONS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); JUDGES (89%); DUE PROCESS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



72 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Where 'Jasmine' Means Tea, Not a Revolt

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Over the nearly four decades since President Richard M. Nixon established diplomatic ties with Red China, American politicians have clung to the idea that the growing ranks of Chinese entrepreneurs and college-educated strivers would one day find electoral democracy irresistible. But a stroll through one of the capital's upscale malls quickly demolishes such idealistic notions -- and instead makes you wonder whether China's autocrats have struck on a flexible model of long-lasting rule.
At the Oriental Plaza mall, young professionals dressed in Nikes and Abercrombie & Fitch openly profess their admiration for Communist Party governance. ''Any change in the political system would just throw China into disorder,'' said Guo Ting, a 30-year-old office assistant. ''Our leaders are doing a good job.'' 
Educated, white-collar workers like Ms. Guo are emblematic of an increasingly self-confident Chinese middle class willing to cut the government slack over its strictures and imperfections. To this group, such flaws are outweighed by the nonstop double-digit economic growth the regime has presided over, and they have come to appreciate the social stability that comes with autocratic rule.
Not to say that opposition to the status quo doesn't exist. Dispossessed peasants regularly take to the streets over seized land. Dissidents continue to call for pluralism, though the authorities are increasingly suppressing them for fear that an Arab-style ''jasmine revolution'' could take hold here. And disaffected young people share barbed criticisms of their leaders online -- until the censors delete the posts.
But the ruling Communists, most Western experts agree, are in no danger of being toppled anytime soon. ''They've shown themselves to be a whole lot more flexible than the Egypts and the Tunisias of the world,'' said Kevin O'Brien, a China expert at the University of California, Berkeley, pronouncing himself amazed at ''how much they've managed to develop thumbs.''
Such a Darwinian ability to evolve grew out of the party's near-death experience in 1989, when students and intellectuals occupied Tiananmen Square for seven weeks to demand free elections and an end to press restrictions, corruption and nepotism. In the years since it violently crushed those protests, the regime has found a way to satisfy many people much of the time -- enough so that it has dissuaded most citizens from rolling the uncertain dice of pro-democracy street demonstrations.
Until recently, China's leadership also held out the promise of incremental political reform, although the recent Arab unrest, combined with preparations for a change in leadership next year, has effectively killed such prospects. Still, any way you run the numbers, life has undoubtedly improved for most Chinese. Over the past two decades, annual per capita urban incomes have more than tripled, to $3,100 a year; life expectancy has jumped by more than six years, to an average age of 75; and the ranks of illiterate adults have dropped by 46 million. Chinese cities, with their heady, mercantile buzz and acres of gleaming residential high-rises, embody the nation's optimism. ''Ten percent growth solves a lot of problems,'' Professor O'Brien said.
But economic growth alone does not explain the widespread aversion to political change one hears among intellectuals and professionals. For the country's 70 million party members and the growing business class, the current arrangement delivers enormous advantages to those who play by the rules. The benefits can include low-interest loans from state banks and the forbearance of an all-powerful bureaucracy that could quash a company trying to start up outside the privileged club of state-owned behemoths.
The current setup fosters allegiance to the party, even if it is based on the survival instinct and not a small dollop of greed. Li Fan, director of the World and China Institute, a nongovernmental group in Beijing that studies political reform, said electoral democracy would threaten the benefits entrepreneurial elites enjoy under the current system. ''Those who have prospered from economic reform have no interest in sharing power or the spoils of prosperity with those beneath them,'' he said.
The same can be said of the 300 million members of China's growing middle class, many of whom subscribe to the belief that universal suffrage would overempower their impoverished rural brethren. It has become an article of faith, even among idealistic college students, that Chinese peasants are too unschooled to intelligently select the nation's leaders. As Jiang Zemin, then the Chinese president, told Mike Wallace in a 2000 interview, ''The quality of our people is too low.''
The demonization of democracy emanates from top leaders like Wu Bangguo, the party's top legislator, who last month warned the nation that electoral democracy would drive China ''into the abyss of internal disorder.'' Chiming in are celebrities like Jackie Chan, the Hong Kong actor who has denounced democratic societies like Taiwan as ''chaotic,'' saying the Chinese require authoritarian governance. ''If we're not being controlled, we'll just do what we want,'' he said at a gathering of Chinese executives two years ago, prompting a round of hearty applause.
Although most upwardly mobile Chinese are not eager to talk about it, there is another compelling disincentive against agitating for the kind of Western-style democracy they admit to admiring so much -- when it is practiced in places like the United States. Liu Xiaobo, the last Chinese citizen of note to call for an end to single-party rule, found himself in jail for 11 years on charges of subversion. Even his Nobel Peace Prize, awarded last October, did nothing to ease his predicament, nor has it sapped the government's zeal for repression: In recent weeks, more than four dozen public intellectuals, rights lawyers and bloggers have been detained or ''disappeared'' by the authorities as part of an ominous new campaign against dissent.
''It is true that people have seen a significant improvement in living standards and they are optimistic about the future,'' said Joseph Cheng, a professor of political science at City University of Hong Kong. ''But they also know there is nothing to be gained by sticking their neck out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BAD TIMING: The recent Arab unrest has effectively killed prospects for incremental political reform by China's leaders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIU JIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CENSORSHIP (70%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); CORRUPTION (60%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (71%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (71%); AFT (FRA) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (71%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (71%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



73 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Exploring a Run Without Saying So or Seeking the Spotlight

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- Mitt Romney sightings have been hard to come by this year. But there he was on Saturday afternoon, riding an escalator at the Venetian hotel on the Las Vegas Strip after delivering his first public speech in a month.
There is little question that Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, is preparing for a second run at the Republican presidential nomination. His donors are lined up, waiting for a signal to start raising money, and he has an army of young campaign workers standing by to be deployed to early-voting states. 
But Mr. Romney himself has been scarce, with only one public campaign event in all of March. While other likely Republican contenders have actively sought attention, he has purposefully avoided it. His approach should not be seen as ambivalence; it is just that he is not eager for the campaign's glare to begin a moment sooner than it must.
This time, Mr. Romney is trying a less-is-more strategy.
Four years ago, he was turning up everywhere -- Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, Nevada -- and even some admirers concede that he did not wear particularly well. Now, he is taking a low-key approach, staying out of sight as he travels nearly every day to reintroduce himself to voters on his own terms and to build a robust network of donors.
Still, he is gradually coming out of his shell, including a weekend trip to Nevada, where he toured a neighborhood of foreclosed homes on Friday and spoke to the Republican Jewish Coalition on Saturday. He also held a series of private sessions with contributors and influential Republicans in a state he won in 2008.
Mr. Romney opened his remarks at Saturday's gathering with a joke, saying that if he had been the Republican nominee the last time, ''I would have been the guy who lost to Barack Obama.''
He did not raise health care -- one of his biggest challenges because many Republicans believe the health care program he signed into law as a governor was distressingly similar to the national plan -- but it was the subject of the first question asked by a member of the audience.
Mr. Romney gave his standard response, saying that if he were elected president, he would work to repeal the health care law passed under President Obama and grant waivers allowing states to opt out of it. A few moments later, he introduced a new line when asked whether he had the strength to aggressively challenge Mr. Obama.
''He does me the great favor of saying that I was the inspiration of his plan. If that's the case, why didn't you call me?'' Mr. Romney said. ''Why didn't you ask what was wrong? Why didn't you ask if this was an experiment, what worked and what didn't?''
As he moves closer to opening a second presidential bid, Mr. Romney is trying to capitalize on his background as a business executive whose candidacy will be rooted in a message of creating jobs and lifting the economy. To make that point, he visited the North Las Vegas home of Rick and Kathy Tyler, who have lived in a two-story house on Prospector Court since 2004 and have watched its value fall by $200,000.
They joined Mr. Romney on a walking tour of empty streets, which culminated in his first question-and-answer session of the year with reporters as he stood in the driveway of a home that had a blue auction sign hanging from the garage. He hailed the latest unemployment figures as ''good news'' but said the nation's economic picture was far gloomier than the 8.8 percent jobless rate suggested.
''I'm afraid some people are being conditioned to unemployment rates above 8 percent,'' he said. ''Unemployment should be around 4 percent or less. The idea that we celebrate 8.8 percent -- I'm glad for the progress, but my goodness, we've got a lot of people out of work.''
Mr. Romney declined to elaborate on when he might announce his candidacy, even though he is quietly taking steps to open a presidential exploratory committee later this month, a step needed to begin raising money. He smiled and waved off questions, saying, ''I'm doing the things I need to do to keep the options open, and am proceeding with friends and colleagues.''
Mr. Romney is not trying to build suspense around the formal announcement of a candidacy, but rather hoping to show his strength through fund-raising. He also seems to be growing more comfortable in casual settings.
In his last public appearance a month ago in a remote New Hampshire skiing town, he rushed toward the door when journalists tried to approach. But he smiled on Friday as he strolled through a subdivision with a half-dozen reporters in tow.
Jennifer Fung stopped her blue S.U.V. and rolled down the window. ''I actually voted for you in the last election,'' said Ms. Fung, who later added that she, like Mr. Romney, was a Mormon.
''How much do I owe you?'' Mr. Romney joked as he hurried over.
Fifteen minutes later, she circled back around the block and asked for Mr. Romney's autograph. He signed a white piece of paper and wrote the date, noting aloud that it was April Fool's Day.
As he stuck his head in the passenger window of her vehicle, he said: ''If by some chance I become something someday, that might be worth saving. Otherwise, put it in the circular file.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney, second from right, toured a North Las Vegas neighborhood hit by foreclosures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RONDA CHURCHILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); HEALTH CARE (66%); HEALTH CARE LAW (66%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



74 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2756 words

HEADLINE: Flawed Tigernomics

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
IN late June 2008, a week after he astonished the golf world by winning the United States Open while grimacing in pain on a torn left knee, Tiger Woods traveled to a craggy chunk of land on the Baja Peninsula in Mexico. It was a lunarlike landscape of dirt and rock, with an inactive volcano in the background. For several hours, he hobbled over the terrain, discussing with developers his vision for the golf course he would build there, while waves from the Pacific crashed onto the shoreline below. His knee, said one companion, rattled like tools in a tool box.
Mr. Woods would soon undergo surgery that would shut down his season, but no matter: the Tiger legend was steaming ahead, and the fall from grace that would follow was unthinkable then. His heroic performance in the Open had enhanced his stature as perhaps the greatest player ever. It was his 14th major championship, putting him only four behind Jack Nicklaus's 18, the singular goal that Mr. Woods had been pursuing since he turned pro in 1996. His earnings from golf and endorsements had made him wealthy beyond imagination.
Now he was turning his attention to a new challenge, his course design business, one that would extend his brand, bring him untold more millions and leave his permanent imprint on the game he seemed to have mastered so easily. 
The Baja course, called Punta Brava, was Mr. Woods's third design. With its breathtaking landscape, it was easy to envision it rivaling Pebble Beach and establishing his legacy as an architect at age 32. At the news conference to unveil the course, in October 2008 at the Hotel Bel Air in Beverly Hills, he looked at ease sitting next to Red McCombs, the billionaire co-founder of Clear Channel Communications, who was one of the investors.
''I can't wait until we actually start construction, and we get to move some dirt because that's when I can really get my hands on it and really be out there even more than I am now,'' Mr. Woods said at the time.
Now, two and a half years later, no dirt has been moved at Punta Brava and Mr. Woods has not visited in some time. His two other designs, in Dubai and near Asheville, N.C., are also troubled; the Dubai course, according to people familiar with the project, has been shelved permanently. The desert sands have started to reclaim the strips of green from the six holes that have been completed. The Asheville project is searching for new financing, and construction has halted until at least this summer. In the nearly five years since Tiger Woods Design was founded, none of the courses have been completed.
It's a trajectory that mirrors just about every element of Mr. Woods's life these days: As he enters the Masters tournament beginning on Thursday, his golf game has fallen apart and he is overhauling his swing for the fourth time in his career. The string of affairs that made him tabloid fodder in 2009 and 2010 cost him his marriage, custody of his two young children and the loss of endorsement deals with Accenture, AT&T and Gatorade.
Brian Tucker, the founder and developer of Punta Brava, said the delay there had nothing to do with Mr. Woods's personal scandal. His group had to redo the environmental impact study, he said, and groundbreaking is set for later this year. What remains to be seen is how much the developers will use Mr. Woods's image to sell the course. Mr. Tucker suggested that Punta Brava would be marketed mostly on its exotic locale.
''This project is not about Tiger Woods,'' Mr. Tucker said last month, emphasizing that the course is surrounded on three sides by the ocean and has 12 holes requiring a player to hit the ball over water.
Punta Brava's location allows it to play down Mr. Woods's involvement, but the two other courses he designed do not have this luxury. His allure as one of the world's great champions was a crucial pillar of the sales plan.
Bryon Bell, president of Tiger Wood Design, said the firm would not be looking for new partners in Dubai. ''As the course designer, it is not our role to secure financing for the projects,'' he wrote in an e-mail.
When asked about the Asheville project, he said: ''Our role beyond design work can vary depending on the client. Some request additional promotional or marketing opportunities, others just ask for our patience during these economic times.''
For now, the only golf project that Tiger Woods Design has completed is behind Mr. Woods's newly finished mansion on Jupiter Island, Fla. With four greens, seven sand traps and different cuts of grass, the 3.5-acre pitch-and-putt course would delight any golfer.
While Mr. Woods could surprise the golf world and win this week at the Masters, it will take more than a major championship to rehabilitate his business career. And that raises some questions: What will become of the two remaining courses that bear his name, and can Tiger Woods Design re-emerge as a viable enterprise?
WHEN Tiger Woods started his golf design business in 2006, few doubted that he could deliver a course that everyone would want to play. That confidence didn't vanish when the global economy began to fracture in 2008. Real estate values -- so vital to any golf development -- were dropping but were not yet considered at crisis levels. There were signs of a financial reckoning on the horizon, but not in the world inhabited by millionaire investors looking for a spot in golf's most exclusive clubs. The Tiger market remained bullish.
Investors had compelling reasons to hope that Mr. Woods was recession-proof. Dubai had ponied up an estimated $55 million, according to widely circulated reports, for the privilege of owning Mr. Woods's first-ever course design. The Asheville project, at a gated community called the Cliffs at High Carolina, had reportedly paid him $10 million. The usual fee for course design by a top architect runs $2 million to $3 million.
It didn't matter that Mr. Woods had never designed a course. Who more than Tiger Woods knew his way around bentgrass and bunkers? With his practical experience, he would learn the details of the business on the job.
And so he set about to do so. ''The amount of meetings I've been in -- people would be shocked,'' he said in an interview in 2008. ''But that's how you gain experience, how you can gain knowledge, being in meetings and participating. You learn and grow.''
In the beginning, Mr. Woods was hands-on. To the delight of his backers, he visited the sites often. He reworked the layout of the courses until they met his standards. At Punta Brava, he made 27 routing maps, when most top architects do three or four. At High Carolina, he changed the layout so that that the ninth hole would not be northern-facing and unplayable in the winter.
He also made time for the publicity events that were part of the deal. He traveled to Dubai in December 2006 to announce that his first course design would be built in the desert, surrounded by mansions costing tens of millions of dollars. In 2007, he strolled into a packed room at one of the Cliffs' other communities, in South Carolina, to unveil his plans for High Carolina, his first course in the United States.
A year later, after his victory at Torrey Pines, he made his trip to Punta Brava to approve the final layout.
Actions like this only burnished his image with investors: he was a great golfer, and also a man of his word. What was selling these projects, of course, was Tiger Woods the champion, not Tiger Woods the course designer. Jack Nicklaus, who has operated a successful design business since 1969, was one of the few who added a sobering voice when asked about Mr. Woods's precociousness in course design: ''Yes, but he hasn't done any yet,'' Mr. Nicklaus said soon after the Cliffs broke ground. ''He's on his third golf-course contract.''
His comment proved prescient, though no one wanted to hear it any more than they wanted to hear that housing prices wouldn't always go up. Mr. Woods's aura was evident at the gala in Beverly Hills that officially announced Punta Brava. In a scene more like a film premiere, Mr. Woods met with hundreds of the world's wealthiest golfers, many of whom had made their money through shrewd business dealings.
''I introduced him to every single person that night, 250 people,'' said Brady Oman, who was then part of the development group but has since left. ''It went past midnight. He stayed way past the end.''
The prospect of working with Mr. Woods caused even the savviest among them to drop their normal skepticism. At the unveiling of the project in 2008, Red McCombs, the major financial backer of Punta Brava, said that initially, ''I wasn't turned on by the whole thing. Then they said, 'I think we can get Tiger involved in designing this.' I said, 'Forget it, it's over, I'm in.' ''
Mr. McCombs, a lifelong real estate investor, added: ''It was the idea of Tiger coming in as a partner and designing the course, not just in name but in total involvement in the course. He has such an impeccable background and he added to the property.''
Now, two and a half years later, with the business seemingly stymied, it is hard to sort out all the contributing factors. The economic crisis was certainly one of them. Credit dried up, and real estate prices plunged. It was a bad time for any development, and the golf industry suffered. According to the National Golf Foundation, only 46 new courses opened in the United States in 2010, the fewest in 25 years.
There is evidence, too, that all three developments significantly overestimated the prices they could charge for surrounding real estate, with lavish mansions in Dubai and homes at Punta Brava priced as high as $12 million.
The tarnishing of Mr. Woods's image has presumably hurt as well. Its impact is harder to quantify, though it probably has been more of a factor for the Cliffs, which based its initial sales pitch as much on Mr. Woods's personality and reputation as on his athletic accomplishments. Jim Anthony, the project's founder, does not even play golf. He likes to fish and take long walks with his pedometer ticking off the miles. His vision of the Cliffs was to sell the communities based on a lifestyle of health and wellness and a family-friendly image.
So when the string of affairs that ended Mr. Woods's marriage was revealed, the Cliffs had to scramble; now, the marketing is affected by the fact that the company doesn't want to plaster Mr. Woods's image over all of its promotional materials.
Mr. Anthony said he harbored no animosity toward Mr. Woods. ''I don't know of any of us who hasn't made a mistake,'' he said. ''I had some conversations with Tiger when he was here. I think he's genuinely working hard.''
He said he does not blame Mr. Woods's travails for the sluggish sales at High Carolina. ''I think it's very minimally Tiger,'' he said.
Regardless, Mr. Woods's work with these projects is largely done. He has been paid the bulk of his contract fees. ''Traditionally, a course designer's job begins and ends with designing a great course,'' said Mr. Bell, the head of the company.
In the meantime, there have not been any new projects announced by Tiger Woods Design. ''We are evaluating opportunities from all over the world,'' Mr. Bell said. ''We're staying focused on our original mission of finding great sites, great partners, and creating spectacular designs. I'm very confident about our future.''
FOR the investors who backed Tiger Woods's designs, time is running short, or has run out altogether. The Dubai project appears all but dead. Mr. Woods's Web site says completion of the course is pending and that he might revive it. But an official at Golf in Dubai, which promotes the sport in the emirate said the project was ''as good as dead and buried.'' He said the chief executive had left and that the second in command was back in Canada.
''Basically it was an exorbitant project,'' said the official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid contradicting his organization's role. ''The $100 million mansions were too expensive even during the years of real estate boom in Dubai.''
Punta Brava, the hardest-to-reach of Mr. Woods's courses, is the one in the best financial position. It, too, started with grand plans of 8,000-square-foot mansions and a gigantic clubhouse.
But as the economy cratered, the developers found themselves battling local groups over the environmental impact study it had submitted. Even after they redid the study, they faced hurdles to getting the proper permits to build along the Pacific.
Mr. Tucker, the founder, said this delay, however frustrating, turned out to be a blessing. He was able to go back to prospective buyers who had toured the site and ask if they were still interested.
''We said, 'Let's talk about prices.' Before, we were looking at the $3 million-$12 million ranges; now based on all of this we're looking at $800,000 to $3.9 million,'' he said. ''We took advantage of a difficult, stressful, frustrating situation that allowed us to refine the land plan for Punta Brava and give not what the market wants but what our people want.''
The project has also benefited from financial backing from Mr. McCombs and Ruben Gonzalez Pena, a businessman in the Baja area, so it has not had to rely on bank financing. They have also appealed to a crowd of wealthy golf purists who have access to the private jets they will need to land at the local airport. (The club provides members helicopter transportation from the airport to their homes -- that is, if they don't have their own helicopter.)
AS for the Cliffs, it seems to be caught between success and failure. It seemed to be the safest choice -- a string of seven golf communities with a proven record of success. But its ability to pay for the course, and its constant operation, was contingent on the ability to sell homes.
After the groundbreaking in November 2008, with Mr. Woods attending in specially designed Nike clothing, the Cliffs said that it had sold 40 lots at High Carolina, starting at $500,000. That number has not changed since then.
After struggling through 2009, the Cliffs realized that it needed financial help. It borrowed $64 million from a group of residents in April 2010, and, in January this year, a Dallas-based property developer made an investment to help restructure its debt. Mr. Anthony said that this helped reduce the debt burden by $50 million, and that he continues to work with other lenders.
''We make no bones about it: cash flow is still tough,'' he said. ''We feel fortunate that our property owners are supporting us.''
Don Tucker, a lawyer who serves on the advisory board for the group that lent the club $64 million, said his group had recommended that work be halted on the Tiger Woods course -- and that other improvements at the Cliffs be postponed -- so it could first finish the development's seventh course, one designed by Gary Player.
But this has created a chicken-or-egg scenario: Mr. Woods's course can't be completed until more homes are sold, but buyers won't commit until the course is finished.
''That's the conundrum for every golf course designer,'' Mr. Tucker said.
Mr. Anthony, who began his career as a telephone lineman, remains optimistic. He noted that Southwest Airlines is going to start flying into Asheville, which he hopes will help with sales.
In many ways, living on a Tiger Woods course was always based more on allure than financial calculation -- the seductive combination of natural beauty, exclusivity and Mr. Woods's platinum image. ''I want to get to know them, and they should get to know me,'' Mr. Woods said in the 2008 interview, of the people he would work with. ''It's not just going out there and designing golf courses. I consider it a partnership. We're in this together through thick and thin.''
While Mr. Woods's early forays into course design have stumbled -- and have definitely come at great cost to the projects' financial backers -- no one is accusing him of doing his job poorly or failing to keep his commitments. Like his golf game, the business is simply stuck, beyond even his power to lift it up, bend it to his will and defy natural forces the way so many of his superhuman golf shots did when he sent them soaring.
Still, it seems likely that Mr. Woods will get the opportunity to build other courses in the future. At some point, his personal scandal will have faded, the real estate market may pick up and he could even start winning golf tournaments again.
Until then, Mr. Woods at least has the practice course in his backyard. That is more than his partners can say.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The desert is reclaiming what's left of a Dubai project that was to include a golf course by Tiger Woods, but since his scandals and the housing bust, his design company has all but disappeared. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GOLF DIGEST/WWW.GOLFDIGEST.COM/CONDENAST
MIKE EHRMANN/GETTY IMAGES) (BU1)
A development near Asheville, N.C., is marketed as family-friendly. Though he designed a course for the site, Tiger Woods is unlikely to be on any brochures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL BELLEME FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
On the Baja Peninsula in Mexico, Mr. Woods envisioned a course bordered on three sides by the Pacific Ocean. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCY NICHOLSON/REUTERS)
 Mr. Woods's first client was the city-state of Dubai. Khalid al-Malik, left, and Abdulla al-Gurg, officials developing the site, met with Mr. Woods in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AZIZ SHAH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); TOURNAMENTS (68%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (55%)

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (90%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (77%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



75 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Look Who's Talking

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY NUNBERG. 
Geoffrey Nunberg, a linguist, teaches at the School of Information at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
YOU ARE WHAT YOU SPEAK
Grammar Grouches, Language Laws, and the Politics of Identity
By Robert Lane Greene
312 pp. Delacorte Press. $25.
For nearly a century, linguists have been struggling to unseat the accumulated dogma that ''masquerades as common sense,'' as the American linguist Leonard Bloomfield put it in 1933. That's the challenge that faces every developing science, but linguistics seems to have had a harder time than most. People who readily accept the principles of modern economics, psychology and biology still cling to notions about language that are as antiquated as a belief in physi/ocracy or leeching.
According to Robert Lane Greene, a correspondent for The Economist, the problem here is a failure to communicate: ''Linguists have only themselves to blame for not getting the word out better about what they do.'' That's not quite fair; the field has been pretty well served by its popularizers, among them scholars like Steven Pinker, John McWhorter and David Crystal. Still, the territory is clearly worth revisiting, and Greene's ''You Are What You Speak'' is a very readable survey of all the ways our received ideas about language can lead us astray. 
Greene makes it his business to dispel popular misconceptions, large and small. (Politicians and pundits, please note: the Chinese word for ''crisis'' is not composed of the characters for ''danger'' and ''opportunity.'') To that end, he visits with the University of Pennsylvania's Mark Liberman, a multifaceted scholar who serves as a one-man truth squad at the Language Log blog, of which he is a co-founder.
In her 2006 book ''The Female Brain,'' for example, Louann Brizendine reported that women average 20,000 words a day against just 7,000 for men. That came as no surprise to many in the media; as one TV reporter put it: ''Here's a news flash. Women talk more than men. Duh.'' But Liberman tracked Brizendine's figures to an unsourced claim in a self-help book and noted that the empirical research shows both sexes using about the same number of words in a day. Duh! yourself.
And when columnists including George Will and Stanley Fish asserted that President Obama's frequent use of ''I'' and ''me'' betrayed his arrogance and self-absorption, Liberman did the counts and showed that Obama actually used those pronouns far less often in speeches and press conferences than did any of his recent predecessors.
''You Are What You Speak'' is concerned more with the things people say about language than with the way it works. Readers will gain a deeper understanding of language structure and language change from the books of Pinker and McWhorter. But Greene comes into his own in his knowledgeable discussion of the politics of language in nations from Turkey to Israel to India, and of the folly in trying to regulate language from the top down.
In his view, the efforts of the French to purge their tongue of English words arise in part from a ''dented self-image,'' even though French is hardly a threatened language. And while Americans may bristle at the comparison, he sees the same unwarranted insecurity behind the English-only movement. As Greene notes, English doesn't need protecting; modern immigrants are acquiring the language far more rapidly than immigrants did a century ago and, sadly, are rapidly losing their original languages in the bargain. But that's unlikely to deter the sponsors of English-only measures, which presuppose that recent immigrants have resisted assimilation.
Greene's abhorrence of linguistic meddling extends to the ''grouches,'' ''scolds'' and ''vigilantes'' who complain that English is going to hell in a Hupmobile and insist on imposing specious rules and crotchets on a language that is doing quite nicely on its own, thank you. In fact, he argues that the quality of this ''declinism'' has itself gone downhill over the last century. We've passed from the thoughtful homilies of Fowler to the pithy dictums of Strunk and White to the operatic curmudgeonry of modern sticklers like Lynne Truss, whose gasps of horror at the sight of a misplaced apostrophe are a campy cover for self-congratulation.
There's a lot to this argument. With some notable exceptions, the tone of language commentary has become more shrill even as the ''rules'' have become ossified and hieratic. Linguists have played a part in that, by reducing these matters to a pseudo-philosophical distinction between ''prescriptivism'' and ''descriptivism'' that leaves little place for the fine critical discriminations that make Fowler still so instructive to read. But it doesn't help that these days even the literati have a hazy grasp of grammatical structure. Writers in The New Yorker, The New Republic and National Review often condemn public figures for hiding behind ''the passive voice'' in sentences like ''Acts of terrorism must end'' or ''That often happens to Israel's critics,'' which aren't grammatical passives at all.
Greene has some grounds, too, for charging that modern sticklerism is driven by ''an aggrieved conservatism, standing against youth, minorities and change.'' There was clearly a current of displaced racism in reactions to ''Ebonics.'' ''Lazy,'' ''slovenly,'' ''ignorant,'' ''gutter'' -- it was striking how many of the descriptions people applied to black English were the same ones that had been applied to its speakers in the past. And modern jeremiads about the collapse of standards obviously resonate with the rhetoric of the culture wars, at least in the academic theater of operations.
But until 50 years ago, nobody talked about ''conservative'' and ''liberal'' positions on usage. And even now, it's not as if liberals care less about usage issues than conservatives do, though they're generally loath to link them to the decline of the West.
Most of the usage questions that engage us daily have nothing to do with politics, race or class, and they almost never figure among the score or so of timeworn bugbears that people report as their pet peeves, like ''irregardless,'' ''literally'' and ''I could care less.'' (Doesn't anybody know what ''pet'' means anymore?)
Not long ago I did a double take when I encountered the phrase ''refreshingly simplistic'' in a music review. When I looked it up on Google, I got hundreds of hits. It seemed to have sprung out of nowhere /-- these things always do -- but it turns out people have been using ''simplistic'' for at least 40 years to mean something like ''plain'' or ''unadorned.''
Well, language changes, and speakers in a generation or two will probably find my animadversions over ''refreshingly simplistic'' as tiresome and fusty as I find those by people who still grouse about using ''nauseous'' to mean sick. (As Greene succinctly puts it, ''Yesterday's abomination is today's rule.'') Yet the prospect of future acceptance doesn't allay my feeling that the phrase is a pratfall. It's as if I'd tried to tell my parents when I was growing up that I shouldn't have had to wear a jacket to a restaurant, since people a half-century later would be showing up in jeans and flip-flops.
With linguistic opinion so polarized, it's hard to find fault with a usage without evoking the sticklers and scolds that Greene incisively skewers. But the problem isn't that we persist in making judgments about language. It's that we've gotten so bad at it.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL BIERUT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LINGUISTICS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); WRITERS (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

COMPANY: YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (90%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (90%)

PERSON: ROBERT W LANE (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: You Are What You Speak: Grammar Grouches, Language Laws, and the Politics of Identity (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



76 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
DISASTER SEVERS LIFELINE
IN JAPANESE TOWN
The disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant has wreaked havoc on some pf Japan's most remote communities, like the town of Kazo, which has struggled as most of the country's postwar economic growth has been concentrated in big cities. PAGE 5
FIGHTING EPIDEMICS ABROAD 
Across sub-Saharan Africa, an extreme shortage of health workers remains a critical barrier to fighting illness. Experts say efforts to bring doctors and health professionals from abroad have proved useful on a continent that sorely needs pediatricians, surgeons and other specialists to train African doctors and nurses in the field. PAGE 5
PROTESTS OVER KORAN BURNING
Violent protests over the burning of a Koran in Florida flared in Kandahar, Afghanistan, for a second straight day, with young men rampaging through the streets of this southern capital, flying Taliban flags and wielding sticks. PAGE 7
SUPPORT FOR AN ACTIVIST
A prominent Vietnamese legal scholar and human rights campaigner who has called for multiparty democracy was due in court in Hanoi, facing up to 12 years in prison in a case that has mobilized broad public support. PAGE 12
National
EXPLORING A PRESIDENTIAL RUN
BUT AVOIDING THE SPOTLIGHT
There is little question that Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, is preparing for a second run at the Republican presidential nomination. But while other likely Republican candidates have actively sought attention, he has purposefully worked to avoid it. Political Memo. PAGE 15
EXECUTION BAN IMPACTS JOBS
The weeks since Gov. Patrick J. Quinn signed a law making Illinois the 16th state to ban the death penalty have been tumultuous for those laboring in that grim legal niche. PAGE 14
Metropolitan
CYCLISTS CAUGHT BETWEEN SIDEWALK AND STREET
The New York Police Department has stepped up its enforcement of traffic rules for bicycles in Central Park, which has reignited a debate more than a century old over the proper place of cyclists on the road. PAGE 5
A SUPER'S MANY ROLES
An ex-convict named Chris Carney is the primary caretaker of a place of redemption: an apartment building in Harlem that reserves some units for felons. PAGE 1
Sports
A VIDEO GAME TAKES
CONCUSSIONS SERIOUSLY
Madden '12, the coming version of the eerily true-to-life N.F.L. video game played by millions of youngsters, will be realistic enough not only to show players receiving concussions, but also to show any player who sustains one being sidelined for the rest of the game -- no exceptions. The game's fake broadcasters will explain that the player was removed because of the seriousness of head injuries. PAGE 1
A COACHING PIPELINE
With Virginia Commonwealth's run to the Final Four, Coach Shaka Smart has been the smiling face of the midmajor program and its improbable journey. But his arrival was not an accident: In 2004, V.C.U. created a networking function where administrators from midmajor programs could meet with a handpicked group of the country's top assistants. PAGE 4
Obituaries
JOSe ARGuELLES, 72
The father of the Harmonic Convergence, the mammoth New Age event that in 1987 drew thousands of humming adherents to sites around the globe, died in the Australian bush. PAGE 24
Sunday Business
A CLUB FOR THE WOMEN
ON TOP OF THE LADDER
Belizean Grove, a women's club founded 12 years ago, operates mostly under the radar. The first time it received any real public attention was in 2009, when it became known that Sonia Sotomayor, now a Supreme Court justice, was among its 125 or so members. Page 1
DATA AS A FEAST FOR THE EYES
In an uncharted world of boundless data, information designers are our new navigators, presenting sometimes dull statistics as a more palatable visual experience. Page 3
SMOOTHING BUREAUCRACY
The simple solution for just about any bureaucratic roadblock is to assemble teams and discover ways to streamline work. Page 8
Automobiles
A BELOVED CAR LANGUISHES
IN THE GARAGE NO LONGER
When Joseph La Vache bought a Buick Wildcat coupe in 1963, he made a promise to his bride-to-be, Maria. But the promise fell victim to the oil crunches of the 1970s, when gas prices shot to dizzying heights, the Buick remained in the La Vache garage for more than 40 years. Luckily, that is not the end of the story. Sports, Page 11
Arts & Leisure
FOR KATHLEEN TURNER,
A BRASSY NEW ROLE
In the Broadway play ''High,'' Kathleen Turner plays a nun, albeit one who is unabashed, foul-mouthed and an ex-alcoholic. Ms. Turner can add this role to a list of tough-purring femme fatales, contract killers and other lionesses of the screen and stage. Page 1
Magazine
ERUPTION OF BENGHAZI,
AND BEGINNING OF FREEDOM
No one, not even the most committed dissident or the most naive optimist could have believed that Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi would be defeated in Benghazi, Libya. A courthouse that had been the seat of fear and oppression is now the heart of a free Libya. Page 32
Editorial
SAY NO TO NEW PIPELINE
LINKING TO TAR SANDS
This year, the State Department will decide whether to approve construction of a 1,700-mile oil pipeline from Canada to the Texas Gulf Coast called Keystone XL. The State Department should say no. Week in Review, Page 9
Op-Ed
MAUREEN DOWD
Republicans hate social networking, unless they are the ones doing it. They talk fiscal policy but cannot resist social meddling in social issues like fiscal responsibility and gays in the military. Week in Review, Page 10
PUBLIC EDITOR
As The Times evolves from a print-only paper to one that lives online and expects to be paid for it, it should make its rules of the road easy for readers to find and navigate. Week in Review, Page 10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); PEDIATRICS (76%); NURSES & NURSING (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); TALIBAN (74%); RIOTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); HEAD INJURIES (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (69%); CYCLING (68%); FELONIES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); BRAIN INJURIES (65%); COMPUTER GAMES (65%); SPORTS INJURIES (65%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (63%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (70%); PAT QUINN (50%); CHRISTOPHER P CARNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); VIETNAM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



77 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: BUDGET BATTLE TO BE FOLLOWED BY A BIGGER ONE

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congress has yet to settle its first budget fight of the year but is already about to move on to an even more consequential fiscal clash.
Even as the two parties struggled over the weekend to reach a deal on federal spending for the next six months and avert a government shutdown at the end of the week, House Republicans were completing a budget proposal for next year and beyond. It is likely to spur an ideological showdown over the size of government and the role of entitlement programs like Medicaid and Medicare.
The plan, which is scheduled to be unveiled Tuesday, will be the most ambitious Republican effort since the November elections to put a conservative stamp on economic and domestic policy. It involves far greater stakes for Congress and for President Obama -- substantively and politically -- than the current fight over spending cuts.
The outcome of that fight was still uncertain on Saturday as Congressional staff members assembled new proposals and the White House said that Mr. Obama had called House Speaker John A. Boehner and Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, to urge them to find an acceptable compromise. He reminded them that time ''is running short.'' 
The longer-term budget proposal has been led by Representative Paul D. Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican who is the party's leading voice on budget matters, and will go beyond numbers to provide policy prescriptions.
It will call for deep spending cuts again in 2012, chart a path to reducing the deficit and slowing the growth of the accumulating national debt, and grapple with the politically volatile issue of reining in the cost of entitlement programs, starting with Medicaid, which provides health coverage for the poor.
''We want to get spending and debt under control, and we want to get the economy growing, and we want to address the big drivers of our debt, and that is the entitlement programs,'' Mr. Ryan, chairman of the Budget Committee, said in an interview. ''We have a moral obligation to the country to do this.''
The efforts of Mr. Ryan, backed by Mr. Boehner and other Republican leaders, are certain to meet serious resistance from the Democratic-led Senate and from Mr. Obama. In many respects, the nasty fight over financing the government for the next six months has been a warm-up for the longer-term budget battle, which could be further inflamed by a debate over raising the federal debt limit.
House Democrats, who are preparing an alternative budget, say the Republican approach would cut off aid to some of the neediest Americans and shortchange education programs vital to staying economically competitive.
''It seems to be the same old, same old,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the senior Democrat on the Budget Committee. ''It is going to be continued big tax breaks for millionaires and big corporate special interests like oil companies and deep cuts in education for kids and health care for seniors.''
''How you get your deficit reduction is important,'' Mr. Van Hollen added.
Republicans have been urging Mr. Obama to seize the opportunity provided by a divided government and lead a legislative push to rein in spending on programs like Medicaid, Medicare and Social Security. Emboldened by their election wins and a sense that the public is ready for a new approach, House Republicans say they will push forward on their own and try to draw the president and Senate Democrats into a broader discussion about long-term deficit reduction and the soaring costs of the entitlement programs.
Details of the House budget are being tightly held. But lawmakers and other officials predict serious proposals to change Medicaid and Medicare, with talks continuing about how hard to push for adjustments in Social Security.
''You are going to see major reforms in Medicare and Medicaid; you are going to see a change in the deficit trajectory that is pretty dramatic,'' said Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican who is on the Budget Committee.
''Ryan isn't touching the third rail,'' Mr. Cole said, employing the expression used to suggest that messing with Social Security and Medicare can be politically fatal. ''He is wrapping both hands around it.''
The budget for 2012 and beyond could heighten the partisan tensions surrounding the financing debate for the current year. If Congress cannot settle that issue by Friday, authorization for some government spending will expire and parts of the federal government will be shut down.
Some Republicans had wanted to delay putting forward Mr. Ryan's plan until this year's negotiations were completed. They were worried that introducing another set of proposals might confuse the debate and give Democrats two targets to exploit in their effort to persuade voters that Republicans were going too far in slashing programs.
Others argued that the Ryan proposal could help Mr. Boehner gather the Republican votes he needs to get a compromise on 2011 spending through the House. Any deal for the current fiscal year is likely to fall short of what the Tea Party movement and some other fiscal conservatives are demanding, but Republican leaders are already signaling that the big prize is a deep spending cut for next year and a start on reining in the entitlement programs -- steps that could involve trillions of dollars over coming decades, as opposed to the tens of billions of dollars on the table in the budget battle for this year.
While Mr. Ryan and top Republican aides would not discuss specifics, there are strong indications that the proposal will draw on deficit reduction plans that Mr. Ryan laid out in his 2010 ''roadmap plan'' and a second proposal he wrote with Alice M. Rivlin, a director of the Office of Management and Budget in the Clinton administration.
In that plan, Ms. Rivlin and Mr. Ryan proposed that Medicaid financing be converted into a block grant program, with states given a set allotment of money and new discretion to shape health coverage programs for the poor. Their Medicare proposal would allow those nearing eligibility to remain with the current system, and it would create a program that would provide payments to Medicare enrollees to buy private health insurance.
Top Republicans have been divided on how much to tinker with Social Security, given strong Democratic opposition, its less significant contribution to the budget deficit and the political explosiveness of making any changes to the program. Officials say the budget will probably provide guidance on how to shape Social Security based on recommendations from last year's presidential deficit-reduction committee.
Republican leaders have not previously embraced Mr. Ryan's proposals on Medicare and Social Security, but Mr. Boehner said he had tired of watching Congress avoid difficult decisions on entitlement programs.
''You can't continue to whistle past the graveyard,'' he said. ''We are imprisoning the future for our kids and our grandkids if we do not act, and it's time to act.''
Democrats said they intended to draw sharp distinctions between their approach and that of Republicans.
''The idea of block-granting and flexibility kind of sounds good, but it is actually code for cutting,'' said Representative John Yarmuth, a Kentucky Democrat on the Budget Committee. ''It is a license to cut.''
Mr. Ryan promised that his blueprint would be a significant departure from the budget issued this year by Mr. Obama, which made no major recommendations on how to address the big entitlement programs. ''The president is not leading; we need to,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''Otherwise the country has no vision and no option for getting out of this debt crisis that we are going into.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin is a leading Republican voice on the federal budget. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEBT CEILING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); MEDICAID (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



78 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Ballot Subtext: Budget Crisis and Jobs, Jobs, Jobs

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS, HUNTER CLAUSS, and DON TERRY

 BODY:
Focused on winning the mayor's office outright, Rahm Emanuel mostly steered clear of the City Council races in the Feb. 22 election. The day after he was elected mayor, he turned to the 14 wards where no candidate for alderman won a majority, necessitating runoffs on Tuesday to complete the new 50-member Council.
Mr. Emanuel is following the sort of strategy he oversaw as a top national Democratic operative, when he helped single out races that led the party to control of Congress in 2006. After meeting with candidates across the city, Mr. Emanuel picked favorites in nine runoff races and devoted resources to campaigns through his New Chicago Committee.
In its first month, the committee has reported raising more than $330,000 for the runoff campaigns. Most of it has gone for polls, phone calls and mailings for candidates who Mr. Emanuel hopes will back his reform agenda. 
Many labor leaders did not support his mayoral bid and talked about creating a ''progressive caucus'' that would form a majority bloc in the Council. But runoff races have not taken the same shape as in 2007, when labor-backed candidates unseated several of Mayor Richard M. Daley's allies. Mr. Emanuel, business leaders and most labor groups have picked the same candidates in almost all the runoff races.
''I don't see clearly defined battle lines drawn,'' said Alderman Brendan Reilly (42nd Ward), who won his second term unopposed and has helped several candidates. ''There is no hard-and-fast litmus test for the interest groups. They are trying to pick winners.''
The defining issue for the new mayor and Council, Mr. Reilly said, is the city's budget crisis. ''We can't afford to do what we've been doing,'' he said. ''There are no attractive options.''
Among the interest groups that have spent heavily in the aldermanic races was the new For A Better Chicago political group, led by Greg Goldner, who managed Mr. Emanuel's run for Congress in 2002. Mr. Goldner said ideology and picking sides for or against the new mayor would matter less than management skills.
''This is a Democratic city,'' he said, ''and we all believe active government is important. We all want to provide services. But if we don't have the money, what do we do? There are a lot of difficult issues that the next City Council will have to tackle. There is no way to defer them any longer.''
DAN MIHALOPOULOS
6TH WARD
A Flood of Mailings
It's up to voters living in the 6th Ward to decide whether to re-elect their veteran alderman, Freddrenna Lyle, on Tuesday, but plenty of people outside the South Side ward will try to influence their decision.
Ms. Lyle is a longtime ally of organized labor groups that did not back Mr. Emanuel's election as mayor. She also has the endorsements of Mr. Emanuel and business groups that have feuded with the unions.
Roderick Sawyer, her challenger, said the incumbent had been compromised because she was beholden to too many groups with conflicting interests.
''You can't serve two different masters,'' said Mr. Sawyer, who won 25 percent of the vote in the February election to finish second among six candidates and force the runoff.
Ms. Lyle, who received 45 percent, said she did not worry about the possibility that someday she would face pressure from her backers to pick sides on City Council votes where not all of them are in agreement. She said Mr. Emanuel told her he understood that she was not always going to vote for his agenda when he promised to support her campaign at a meeting after the February election.
''I said, 'Hello, I'm Alderman Freddrenna Lyle,' and he said, 'I already know all about you,' '' Ms. Lyle said, smiling.
A political fund created to help the mayor-elect's endorsed candidates in the runoff has spent more than $35,000 to aid Ms. Lyle, state records show.
The Service Employees International Union, which did not endorse Mr. Emanuel, has donated at least $68,000 to her campaign since October, but also has spent tens of thousands on mailings attacking Mr. Sawyer.
While the mailings from Mr. Emanuel's political committee focus on Ms. Lyle's record, the service employees' mailing criticized Mr. Sawyer for owing back taxes and for what it claimed was his support of video gambling. Mr. Sawyer said he was paying off the delinquent tax bills and denied supporting video gambling.
Ms. Lyle said she was not happy with the attack ads, which the union sent out without consulting with her campaign. She said some voters had complained to her about the attacks on Mr. Sawyer, the son of former Mayor Eugene Sawyer.
''It is a very uncomfortable position to be in because your future is, in effect, out of your own control,'' she said. HUNTER CLAUSS
41ST WARD
Emanuel's Shorter Coattails
It would seem like Mayor-elect Emanuel has an easy choice in the 41st Ward runoff election. The nonpartisan race pits the ward's Democratic committeeman, Mary O'Connor, against a Republican, Maurita Gavin.
Mr. Emanuel, long one of the nation's top Democratic operatives, has remained neutral, even after meeting with both candidates. A spokeswoman for him declined to comment on the race.
But the reason seems obvious: Mr. Emanuel's coattails may be short in the 41st Ward, one of only 10 wards where he was not the top vote-getter in the February election. Mr. Emanuel received 42 percent there, to 50 percent for Gery Chico.
The police and firefighter unions endorsed Mr. Chico over Mr. Emanuel. Brian Doherty, the retiring alderman, said the unions' stand against him most likely cost Mr. Emanuel many votes in the suburban-like ward on the far Northwest Side, which is home to many city workers. Mr. Doherty is supporting Ms. Gavin, his aide.
''Police and firefighters don't like him and are afraid of him,'' Mr. Doherty said of the mayor-elect. ''They are the backbone of the vote up here.''
Matt Joyce, a ward resident who works as an engineer for the City Colleges of Chicago, said he voted for Miguel del Valle for mayor because Mr. Del Valle seemed less likely to balance the city's budget on the backs of public workers.
But Mr. Joyce said that with the poor economy, ''anyone who gets in there is going to have to cut jobs.''
Last week, in a campaign office in the banquet hall of her restaurant, O'Connor's Deli and Market, Ms. O'Connor said that she did not ask for Mr. Emanuel's endorsement.
''I think there will be many times where we passionately disagree, and I'm O.K. with that,'' she said.
Behind her, on the wall of the banquet hall, hung a reminder of an era in the city's history when the mayor clearly was not O.K. with City Council dissent: A black-and-white picture of former Mayor Richard J. Daley.
HUNTER CLAUSS
16TH WARD
Making Jobs the Focus
Alderman JoAnn Thompson says the top three issues in her struggling Southwest Side ward are ''jobs, jobs, jobs.'' No one disagrees, including her opponent in Tuesday's election, Hal Baskin.
The issue is how to attract employers and jobs to the 16th, a ward besieged by double-digit unemployment, gangs, home foreclosures and a sea of vacant lots. And in that, the ward is similar to others nearby -- the 15th, 17th and 20th -- which all have runoffs.
The cluster is also connected by the fact that politicians often have a hard time establishing lasting political might. They often rely on outside money because local resources are scarce.
The 16th includes parts of the Englewood, Gage Park, Back of the Yards and New City neighborhoods. Throughout the campaign, Mr. Baskin has been an enthusiastic supporter of Wal-Mart's opening a store in the ward. ''Any job,'' he said, ''is better than no job.''
Ms. Thompson, whose campaign is supported by labor unions and Mr. Emanuel, said she would also like to see the discount chain come to Englewood. ''But when Wal-Mart comes,'' she said, ''I want them to pay their employees a livable wage.''
The stress of the race appears to be getting to Ms. Thompson, the first-term incumbent who won 43 percent of the vote in February. Mr. Baskin, a longtime community activist, came in second with 23 percent.
On Wednesday, when approached by a reporter outside her ward office, the alderman said, ''I really don't feel like talking right now,'' and got into her car and started backing out of the parking lot. Another vehicle blocked her path, so she drove down the sidewalk a quarter of a block and then into the street.
''It takes a toll sometimes,'' Ms. Thompson said Thursday, relaxed and smiling broadly. ''But I bounce back fast. The good far outweighs the bad.''
This is the sixth time Mr. Baskin has vied for the seat. He has never won. And he tries to brush off the dreaded title ''perennial candidate'' like so much dandruff.
''When I was boxing the Golden Gloves back in the '60's, I didn't win all my fights, but I didn't quit,'' he said. ''There's no quit in me. When I run, win or lose, I'm out here doing what I do, trying to make the community better.'' DON TERRY

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Democratic committeeman, Mary O'Connor, going door to door, faces a Republican, Maurita Gavin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL BEATY FOR CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE)
Hal Baskin is taking on Alderman JoAnn Thompson. They agree the key issue is jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE)
 Freddrenna Lyle, the longtime incumbent, is opposed by Roderick Sawyer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL BEATY FOR CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); CAUCUSES (77%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



79 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 804 words

PERSON: Edwin Gaustad 

HEADLINE: Edwin Gaustad, 87, Religious Historian

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Edwin S. Gaustad, who took his place in the front rank of American religious historians with seminal works on the religious ideas of the founding fathers, especially Thomas Jefferson, and the arguments about church versus state that evolved from the dissenting sects in colonial America, died on March 25 at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 87. The death was confirmed by his daughter Susan.
Although his principal field was colonial religious history, Professor Gaustad ranged far and wide as a scholar. He explored the contested territory of religious liberty, pluralism and dissent in colonial America, but he also wrote general histories that carried the story forward to the present day and published a series of atlases, frequently updated, that gave a geographical picture of religious belief in the United States. His first book, ''The Great Awakening in New England'' (1957), made the case that the religious revival fanned by preachers like Jonathan Edwards and George Whitefield had more than religious importance, profoundly affecting political and intellectual life in America. He also challenged the revisionist view that the movement was really an economic and class insurgency, arguing that it enjoyed support among all classes. 
''The Awakening was 'Great' because it was general: none escaped its influence or avoided its controversy,'' he wrote. ''In both coastal and frontier areas, within cities and rural communities, in churches and in open fields, people gathered to hear an earnest evangelistic gospel, be it preached by their own minister, a neighboring pastor, a trespassing itinerant or an exhorter.''
He went on to write several histories of religion in America that became classic texts for students and historians alike, notably ''A Religious History of America'' (1966), revised with Leigh Schmidt and republished as ''The Religious History of America'' in 2002; ''Dissent in American Religion'' (1973); and ''Faith of Our Fathers: Religion and the New Nation'' (1987).
One of his most ambitious projects was ''Historical Atlas of Religion in America,'' first published in 1962 and reissued in revised and updated editions in 1976 and 2001.
Professor Gaustad's interest in religious liberty, and evolving notions of the relationship between church and state, led to an abiding fascination with Roger Williams, the theologian who helped found Rhode Island and established the first Baptist church. He wrote about Williams in ''Liberty of Conscience: Roger Williams in America'' (1991) and in a short biography, ''Roger Williams'' (2005).
''My interest in him relates principally to his historic contributions to religious liberty -- a full freedom in matters of the soul,'' he told the journal Church and State in 2005. ''Williams advocated the scariest political heresy of his day: namely, that a civil institution could survive without the supporting arm of the church. He was alone in this view in all New England, alone in most of the other colonies, and certainly alone in his own homeland of England.''
Edwin Scott Gaustad (pronounced GOW-sted) was born on Nov. 14, 1923, in Rowley, Iowa, and grew up in Houston. After serving in the Army Air Corps during World War II, he earned a bachelor's degree from Baylor University in 1947. At Brown University, where he studied under the historian Edmund S. Morgan, he received his doctorate in 1951.
After teaching at Shorter College (now University) in Rome, Ga., and the University of Redlands in California, he accepted a teaching post in 1965 at the University of California, Riverside, where he remained until retiring in 1989.
In addition to his daughter Susan, of Manhattan, he is survived by a son, Scott, of Ukiah, Calif.; another daughter, Peggy, of Santa Fe; four grandchildren; and one great-grandson.
In 2002 Professor Gaustad, whose ''Church and State in America'' had been published in 1999, appeared as an expert witness in a widely publicized lawsuit brought by the American Civil Liberties Union, Americans United for Separation of Church and State and other groups, against an Alabama judge who refused to remove a monument of the Ten Commandments from the state courthouse.
In his testimony for the plaintiffs, he invoked Thomas Jefferson, the subject of his book ''Sworn on the Altar of God: A Religious Biography of Thomas Jefferson'' (1996). Jefferson, he told the court, had ''an undying anxiety of anything that would bring church and state together,'' adding: ''He was not against religion. He was against any combination of power with religion.''
When asked by Judge Myron H. Thompson of Federal District Court in Montgomery, Ala., if it would help to add a disclaimer to the bottom of the monument saying ''We're not compelling anyone to believe,'' Professor Gaustad said yes -- but ''moving it to private property would help more.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edwin Gaustad wrote about the views of the founding fathers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); HISTORY (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); CHURCH & STATE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (92%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

CATEGORY: Religion

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



80 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Worrying About Inflation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Inflated Worries,'' by Laurence H. Meyer (Op-Ed, March 25):
There is plenty to worry about.
My generation is now paying for a car what our parents paid for a house. Inflation benefits debtors at the expense of creditors; benefits those who receive the money first before prices rise and hurts those on fixed incomes.
There is no record of any nation in history that has printed too much money and achieved long-lasting prosperity. In reality, the opposite occurs.
DAVID R. BREUHAN Bloomfield Hills, Mich., March 28, 2011
The writer is a vice president and portfolio manager at an investment company. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



81 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: The Bailout and the State of American Politics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Where the Bailout Went Wrong,'' by Neil M. Barofsky (Op-Ed, March 30): 
It doesn't matter whether the government is controlled by Democrats or Republicans, or whether the Treasury secretary is Timothy F. Geithner or Henry M. Paulson Jr. Programs are implemented to benefit the masters of our paper economy, not the actual producers of tangible goods and services.
The Troubled Asset Relief Program illustrates the distressing state of American politics. Wall Street won, Main Street lost. Both the Democratic and Republican Parties, and their leaders, are financed by the wealthy and the corporations they control. Thus there is no political incentive to challenge the privileged position of business.
Little wonder, then, that average citizens are driven to espouse the Tea Party movement (if they are social conservatives) or a Michael Moore-style populism (if they are progressives). Meanwhile, our elitist political system creates an ever-widening income disparity between the superrich and the rest of society.
MARTIN EDELMAN Brooklyn, March 31, 2011
The writer is professor emeritus of political science at the University at Albany-SUNY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%); HENRY PAULSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



82 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Microlender Focuses on Hospitality Businesses

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Four years ago, Riccardo Romero could not find a bank to finance his first restaurant, so he ended up opening the Arepas Cafe in Astoria, Queens, with money from friends and a $10,000 loan from Accion, a nonprofit microlender that has seeded small businesses across the country.
Now, Mr. Romero, a former truffle salesman, is expanding the cafe into a space next door with a second loan provided through Accion, bringing him one step closer to his dream of dotting the country with Arepas Cafes. 
But this time, the $10,000 loan came with an unusual pedigree: a program -- reserved for food, beverage and hospitality businesses -- started by the Boston Beer Company, which makes Samuel Adams. It is almost like a special bank for artisanal pickles and beer, courtesy of a town New Yorkers love to hate.
''We're not going to do any microlending to the New York Yankees, so that's O.K.,'' Jim Koch, the company's brewer and founder, said, laughing. And helping other small businesses -- even other craft brewers -- keeps his company in the mind-set of a start-up and close to its entrepreneurial roots, he said.
Although microlending is a well-established practice, focusing on hospitality alone is unusual. But the need is great: food and beverage ventures can have trouble finding financing from conventional banks because they are risky, and aspiring owners often lack collateral.
Accion, said the chief executive, Paul Quintero, considers factors like projected cash flow and how applicants have handled credit in the past -- both the highs and lows -- but not collateral. And in working with Boston Beer, the lender hopes to double the proportion of its loans that go to the hospitality sector, to 30 percent from 15 percent.
The program, called Brewing the American Dream and started in New England in 2008, is now expanding to New York City, as well as to Pennsylvania and Ohio.
Thus far, 53 businesses have received a total of $540,000, and officials hope to lend at least $250,000 throughout the five boroughs by the end of this year. The loans generally range from $700 to $25,000, and are to be paid back between seven months and five years at an interest rate of 8.99 to 15.99 percent.
''In today's world, people know one thing about banks: They say, O.K., they're not lending, so they assume that no one's lending, and that's false,'' Mr. Quintero said. ''What's coming to New York is a program that we know has been effective, it's had success, it resonates with entrepreneurs, and we'd like to have the New York City entrepreneurs be as competitive and have just the same access to capital as what we've been doing in New England.''
Mr. Koch was inspired both by his difficulties raising capital for a craft beer company 27 years ago -- back when the idea of a microbrewery ''was a little bit crazy, and you just could not get a loan'' -- and his frustration with standard corporate philanthropic activities, like spending a day painting a community center near his offices.
Given the expenditure of resources, he said -- maybe $1,000 worth of painting and $5,000 worth of time and expertise -- the result did not seem worth it.
''I'm supposed to be creating value,'' he said. ''I'm a business, I'm supposed to make two and two equal eight, not two and two equal one.''
So in addition to lending money, the program offers seminars that are open to recipients as well as other small businesses needing advice on the nuts and bolts of operating their companies, like where to find specialty grains or how to develop a marketing plan. Staff members from Boston Beer, including Mr. Koch, plan to begin holding the ''speed-coaching'' sessions in June.
In the meantime, Mr. Romero, the first business owner in New York to receive a loan under the program, has big plans.
He celebrated the grand opening of his new Arepas Cafe space on Friday, which will add 15 or 20 seats to the 35 he already has. He hopes that will increase his revenue by 40 percent and allow him to open a cafe in Manhattan.
The loans are important, Mr. Romero said, but so is the coaching and advice that come along with them.
''I didn't know exactly how to put the money or where to put the money correctly,'' he said of when he started out. ''But now I feel more comfortable putting the money in expansion and making a better place for my customers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Riccardo Romero, in Queens, is the first in the city to get a loan through a program started by the maker of Samuel Adams beer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (92%); BREWERIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (69%); BASEBALL (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: BOSTON BEER CO INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (56%)

TICKER: SAM (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (83%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



83 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: What the Well-to-Do Plan To Do With a Tax Windfall

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
Some of the New Yorkers who stand to benefit most from Albany's decision to kill the temporary income tax surcharge on the state's high earners - the so-called millionaires' tax - do not feel like millionaires.
''Prices keep rising,'' said Jamie Cohen, who works in advertising sales and was on the way to an Equinox Fitness Club on the West Side Thursday. ''It's like New York is immune to everything; $250,000 here is different than $250,000 anywhere else.'' 
The surcharge, set to expire at the end of this year, was first imposed in 2009 and applies to single filers who earn more than $200,000 and joint filers earning more than $300,000. Under its provisions, a married couple making $350,000 paid an additional $3,500 in tax; a couple that earned $550,000 paid an extra $11,660; and a couple making $1 million paid an additional $21,200.
But Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's new budget does not extend the tax, and well-to-do New Yorkers will no longer have to pay it, beginning in the 2012 tax year.
Some are thinking about how to spend the money. With the economy still rebounding, many say they are skipping tropical vacations or new gadgets for what they hope will be smart payoffs in the long term.
Mr. Cohen, 34, said that he and his wife made close to half a million dollars a year, and that they had been considering putting their savings from taxes toward their 2-year-old son's education.
''The truth is to decide if we can send him to school five days a week, like we want, versus what it costs to do three days a week,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''If I could spend my money smartly, I'd put it back into the education of my child.''
For now, Mr. Cohen said, he and his wife chiefly discussed the things they needed, rather than the things they wanted. But if he were to use his money a bit more freely, he added, ''I owe my wife an engagement ring. It just got stolen recently, and I need to replace it.''
David Chitel, 41, the founder of a media entertainment start-up who put his household income at ''$300,000 plus,'' said he would either save the tax windfall or put it toward college funds for his two young children.
''There's still time to have it actually mature,'' Mr. Chitel said as he ate lunch at the Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle. ''Saving, that's it. The only other thing I might do is invest a little more in my business, be a little more aggressive with that.''
Daniel Klaus, a venture capitalist who said he made more than a half-million dollars annually, had the same idea.
''I invest in a lot of small companies, so I would probably invest more money in media and tech start-ups,'' Mr. Klaus, 37, said.
Waiting for a friend outside Landmarc, a restaurant at the Time Warner Center, Mr. Klaus said he probably would not spend the money at fancy restaurants or on special nights out. ''I do all that stuff anyways,'' he said.
''It's probably not going to have a super meaningful effect on my day-to-day life,'' Mr. Klaus said. ''But where it will have an affect is, for me, investing more.''
Sitting at the bar of Porter House New York, also at the Time Warner Center, Drew - who gave only his first name because he was concerned about revealing his income - said he made more than $250,000 in real estate and planned to ''sit down with my accountant and financial adviser'' before making any decisions.
''I have young kids, so I'd probably put it toward college or something like that,'' he said. ''I'll probably invest it.''
Drew added, more enthusiastically: ''I'll always take free money. I'm not going to give it back.''
Yet, for some who would benefit, the governor's decision not to extend the income tax surcharge was not entirely welcome.
''I think it's appalling that he did it because the state and the country needs the money,'' said Stephanie, a marketing executive who also declined to give her last name. She said that ''in a decent year with a bonus,'' she made about $325,000.
''The people who get money back should maybe stop stepping over the homeless and start feeding the hungry or donating to charity, or feeding the one in five children in this country who go hungry,'' she added.
Stephanie echoed some of the criticism of Mr. Cuomo's position on the surcharge as the budget process moved forward.
So, what would she do?
''I need my money,'' she said, citing the expense of caring for her elderly parents.
Yet others, like Lee Hunt, a consultant for television networks who makes more than $500,000, said that while the news was welcome, he did not mind paying the surcharge.
''I've been lucky enough to do well, so I'm happy to give back,'' Mr. Hunt said. ''We don't even notice we're getting the break, or care all that much, which really illustrates the problem.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BUDGETS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); CHILDREN (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



84 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: 2 Qaddafi Sons Are Said to Offer a Plan to Push Father From Power

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; C. J. Chivers contributed reporting from Brega, Libya.

 BODY:
TRIPOLI, Libya -- At least two sons of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi are proposing a resolution to the Libyan conflict that would entail pushing their father aside to make way for a transition to a constitutional democracy under the direction of his son Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi, a diplomat and a Libyan official briefed on the plan said Sunday.
The rebels challenging Colonel Qaddafi as well as the American and European powers supporting them with air strikes have so far insisted on a more radical break with his 40 years of rule. And it is not clear whether Colonel Qaddafi, 68, has signed on to the reported proposal backed by his sons, Seif and Saadi el-Qaddafi, although one person close to the sons said the father appeared willing to go along.
But the proposal offers a new window into the dynamics of the Qaddafi family at a time when the colonel, who has seven sons, is relying heavily on them. Stripped of one of his closest confidantes by the defection of Foreign Minister Moussa Koussa and isolated by decades of attempted coups and internal purges, he is leaning on his sons as trusted aides and military commanders. 
The idea also touches on longstanding differences among his sons. While Seif and Saadi have leaned toward Western-style economic and political openings, Colonel Qaddafi's sons Khamis and Mutuassim are considered hard-liners. Khamis leads a fearsome militia focused on repressing internal unrest.
And Mutuassim, a national security adviser who also commands his own militia, has been considered a rival to Seif in the competition to succeed their father. But Saadi, who has drifted through careers as a professional soccer player, a military officer and a businessman, firmly backs the plan, an associate said.
The two sons ''want to move toward change for the country'' without their father, one person close to the Seif and Saadi camp said Sunday, speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution. ''They have hit so many brick walls with the old guard, and if they have the go-ahead, they will bring the country up quickly.'' One son, this person said, has said many times that ''the wishes of the rebellion were his own.''
The proposals are the latest turn in a drama between Seif and his father that has played out for years on the stage of Libyan public life as the son has alternately pushed forward with calls for political reforms and then pulled back. During the recent revolt, he appeared to march in lockstep with his father in vowing to stamp out the rebels. ''We are coming,'' he declared to a crowd of supporters who chanted, ''Seif al-Islam, step on the rats.''
The proposals are also the latest sign that the Qaddafi government may be feeling the pressure from two weeks of allied airstrikes that have severely diminished the advantage in equipment of the Qaddafi militias. A senior Libyan official arrived in Athens for talks about a potential resolution to the conflict, the Reuters news service reported. And Mohamed Ismail, a top aide to Seif, is returning from a trip to London, where, a Libyan official said, he presented the proposal for Seif to take over from his father.
Mutuassim may be particularly resistant because of his longstanding rivalry with Seif.
After Seif made a high-profile trip to Washington to meet with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in 2008, a WikiLeaks cable reported, the attention paid ''exacerbated tension with his siblings.''
When Mutuassim visited Washington the next year, the American ambassador to Libya wrote, ''Mutuassim's desire to visit Washington this spring and his seemingly overweening focus on having meetings with senior U.S. government officials and signing a number of agreements are driven at least in part by a strong sense of competition with Saif al-Islam.''
In a recent interview with the pan-Arab news channel Al-Arabiya, Saadi suggested that before the revolt Seif was already ''the person who used to run the show every day in Libya.'' The defection last week of Mr. Koussa, the former top aide to Colonel Qaddafi, removes a figure who had been considered a leader of the old guard distrustful of Seif and opposed to reform.
A diplomat familiar with the proposal, however, said discussions remained in the initial stages. Despite the evidence of deep internal discontent, Colonel Qaddafi appears to believe that rebellion against him is a foreign conspiracy of Islamist radicals and oil-hungry Western powers attempting to take over Libya, the diplomat said. And the rebels, who have set up their own provisional government, continue to insist on the exit from power of Colonel Qaddafi and his sons.
''This is the beginning position of the opposition, and this is the beginning position of the Libyan government,'' this diplomat said. ''But the bargaining has yet to commence.''
Militarily, the rebellion remained locked in a stalemate on Sunday. On the eastern front, near the oil town of Brega, the two sides fired rockets, mortars and artillery against each other in a contest for the northern entrance of town. But the battle lines changed only slightly, and neither side appeared to have a clear upper hand.
The fighting intensified in the late afternoon and evening during a three-hour exchange in which rebels launched salvo after salvo of rockets toward the town, and loyalist artillery or mortars replied. The shells landed and exploded across an expanse of desert north of the town.
At least two rebels were killed and others wounded. The fight for Brega continued at the university, where the rebels, who have at times since Friday managed to gain a toehold, withdrew under fire. But the main body of rebels crept closer to the town, and seized two ridges that provided a vantage point for firing on the loyalists holding the town.
At the hospital in Ajdabiya, where casualties are first taken, a team of doctors rushed to help a wounded government soldier who had been shot through the left calf, the right arm, and twice through his right chest and out his back. The soldier, whose documents listed him as Akhmed Awad Omar, from Surt, died on the table, his blood pooled on the floor.
The attendants covered him with a cloth. ''He is a Libyan, and we are sorry for him,'' said Dr. Habib Mohammed el-Obeidy, before the body was wheeled to the morgue. ''Qaddafi is using Libyans against Libyans.''
In Tripoli, armed checkpoints throughout the streets have kept the capital in an anxious lockdown with no signs of any renewed uprising since the revolt that shook the city six weeks ago. Noting that the United Nations resolution authorizing the air strikes also precludes the deployment of ground troops, the diplomat familiar with the proposal backed by the two sons said he wondered how the fighting could end without a negotiated solution.
''They will continue until the ammunition is finished, this stupid fighting along the highway,'' the diplomat said.
Proposals and counterproposals for a cease-fire exchanged between the Qaddafi forces and the rebels appeared deadlocked as well, the diplomat noted. ''For Qaddafi a cease-fire means everyone should cease firing but the Qaddafi forces should stay where they are,'' the diplomat said. ''But for the rebels it means that the Qaddafi forces should withdraw.''
Rebels said Sunday that the Western airstrikes had begun hitting the heavy weapons of the Qaddafi forces even within cities. A spokesman for the rebels controlling the besieged city of Misurata said that on Friday night the airstrikes had hit two tanks and three armored vehicles of the Qaddafi forces that had entered the city.
But on Sunday morning Qaddafi forces outside the city continued shelling an area near the port, while Qaddafi gunmen occupied rooftops along the central Tripoli Street, said the spokesman, Mohamed, whose last name was withheld for the protection of his family.
In an interview in Tripoli, Levent Sahinkaya, the Turkish ambassador, said a Turkish hospital ship had left the Misurata port loaded with 250 patients seriously injured in the fighting. The Qaddafi government had sought to direct the ship first to Tripoli or to postpone its trip, Mr. Sahinkaya said, but instead the Turkish government sent it directly to Misurata with the escort of 10 F-16 fighters and a warship.
''The humanitarian side is so important to us,'' the ambassador said.
''We are the only country able to speak with both sides,'' he said, referring to both the rebels and the Qaddafi government.
''We think a cease-fire should be reached, and after a cease-fire a political solution can be discussed,'' Mr. Sahinkaya said. ''This is the Turkish position.'' He declined to address the details of any cease-fire talks.
About 50 foreign embassies remain open in Tripoli, including those of Turkey, Russia, Bulgaria, Ukraine and China as well as sub-Saharan African countries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Turkish ferry, acting as a hospital boat, carried hundreds of casualties from Misurata, Libya, to Benghazi on Sunday, among them a badly burned young man.
Libyan rebels on a road outside Brega on Sunday. The fighting remained locked in a stalemate. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi has offered to preside over his country as it moves to a democracy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); COUPS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); RELIGION (72%); ATHLETES (64%); SOCCER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (89%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



85 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: The Truth, Still Inconvenient

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
So the joke begins like this: An economist, a lawyer and a professor of marketing walk into a room. What's the punch line? They were three of the five ''expert witnesses'' Republicans called for last week's Congressional hearing on climate science.
But the joke actually ended up being on the Republicans, when one of the two actual scientists they invited to testify went off script. 
Prof. Richard Muller of Berkeley, a physicist who has gotten into the climate skeptic game, has been leading the Berkeley Earth Surface Temperature project, an effort partially financed by none other than the Koch foundation. And climate deniers -- who claim that researchers at NASA and other groups analyzing climate trends have massaged and distorted the data -- had been hoping that the Berkeley project would conclude that global warming is a myth.
Instead, however, Professor Muller reported that his group's preliminary results find a global warming trend ''very similar to that reported by the prior groups.''
The deniers' response was both predictable and revealing; more on that shortly. But first, let's talk a bit more about that list of witnesses, which raised the same question I and others have had about a number of committee hearings held since the G.O.P. retook control of the House -- namely, where do they find these people?
My favorite, still, was Ron Paul's first hearing on monetary policy, in which the lead witness was someone best known for writing a book denouncing Abraham Lincoln as a ''horrific tyrant'' -- and for advocating a new secessionist movement as the appropriate response to the ''new American fascialistic state.''
The ringers (i.e., nonscientists) at last week's hearing weren't of quite the same caliber, but their prepared testimony still had some memorable moments. One was the lawyer's declaration that the E.P.A. can't declare that greenhouse gas emissions are a health threat, because these emissions have been rising for a century, but public health has improved over the same period. I am not making this up.
Oh, and the marketing professor, in providing a list of past cases of ''analogies to the alarm over dangerous manmade global warming'' -- presumably intended to show why we should ignore the worriers -- included problems such as acid rain and the ozone hole that have been contained precisely thanks to environmental regulation.
But back to Professor Muller. His climate-skeptic credentials are pretty strong: he has denounced both Al Gore and my colleague Tom Friedman as ''exaggerators,'' and he has participated in a number of attacks on climate research, including the witch hunt over innocuous e-mails from British climate researchers. Not surprisingly, then, climate deniers had high hopes that his new project would support their case.
You can guess what happened when those hopes were dashed.
Just a few weeks ago Anthony Watts, who runs a prominent climate denialist Web site, praised the Berkeley project and piously declared himself ''prepared to accept whatever result they produce, even if it proves my premise wrong.'' But never mind: once he knew that Professor Muller was going to present those preliminary results, Mr. Watts dismissed the hearing as ''post normal science political theater.'' And one of the regular contributors on his site dismissed Professor Muller as ''a man driven by a very serious agenda.''
Of course, it's actually the climate deniers who have the agenda, and nobody who's been following this discussion believed for a moment that they would accept a result confirming global warming. But it's worth stepping back for a moment and thinking not just about the science here, but about the morality.
For years now, large numbers of prominent scientists have been warning, with increasing urgency, that if we continue with business as usual, the results will be very bad, perhaps catastrophic. They could be wrong. But if you're going to assert that they are in fact wrong, you have a moral responsibility to approach the topic with high seriousness and an open mind. After all, if the scientists are right, you'll be doing a great deal of damage.
But what we had, instead of high seriousness, was a farce: a supposedly crucial hearing stacked with people who had no business being there and instant ostracism for a climate skeptic who was actually willing to change his mind in the face of evidence. As I said, no surprise: as Upton Sinclair pointed out long ago, it's difficult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends on his not understanding it.
But it's terrifying to realize that this kind of cynical careerism -- for that's what it is -- has probably ensured that we won't do anything about climate change until catastrophe is already upon us.
So on second thought, I was wrong when I said that the joke was on the G.O.P.; actually, the joke is on the human race.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EXPERT WITNESSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EMISSIONS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (71%); OZONE DEPLETION (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); ACID RAIN (61%); MONETARY POLICY (50%)

PERSON: AL GORE (57%); RON PAUL (57%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



86 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Prominent Start-Ups in San Francisco Resist a Payroll Tax

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- In a start-up's initial public offering, a lot of people can get fabulously rich: the founders, early employees and the venture capitalists who staked the company.
Should the city where the company resides also share in the windfall? San Francisco officials had thought so.
But two of the city's hottest technology start-ups, Twitter and Zynga, are threatening to leave San Francisco unless they get a break from a city payroll tax that could, given the estimated multibillion-dollar valuations of the two companies, amount to tens of millions of dollars. 
Local officials, fearing the loss of thousands of jobs and a considerable amount of prestige as a tech center, are scrambling to placate the disgruntled businesses. But the city is also struggling with a budget deficit that may require firing hundreds of public employees to bring it under control.
The dispute centers on San Francisco's payroll tax, the only one of its kind in the state. Companies with more than $250,000 in payroll are required to pay the city the equivalent of 1.5 percent of total employee compensation each year. The compensation includes salaries, bonuses and, of much concern to a company contemplating a public offering, the gains from exercised stock options.
The bigger issue for the city is battling its antibusiness image. For years, San Francisco has been a hub for start-ups, but relatively few big technology companies are based in the city limits compared with some other cities in Silicon Valley.
Jennifer Matz, director of the city's Office of Economic and Workforce Development, said that the payroll tax was a disincentive for businesses to grow in San Francisco. The city approved a payroll tax break for biotechnology companies seven years ago, and Ms. Matz said it had helped attract dozens of biotech start-ups.
''This tax is particularly ill-suited to the new wave of businesses that we are trying to make the center of our economy,'' Ms. Matz said.
But with an Internet boom under way and the market for public offerings heating up -- both Zynga and Twitter were recently valued at well over $7 billion -- the future revenue from the payroll tax is hard to resist.
Twitter, the online messaging service, first spoke up about the issue last year as it was considering a move to bigger offices. In a recent letter to Mayor Edwin M. Lee and the city's Board of Supervisors, Twitter said that it had all but decided to leave the city because of higher rent, taxes and other expenses that would cost it an extra $30 million over the next five years.
''Given these economic realities, there was simply no way for us to justify the cost burden of staying in San Francisco,'' Ali Rowghani, Twitter's chief financial officer, wrote.
Not willing to call Twitter's bluff, the city offered a deal to the company, which now works out of space in the gritty but fashionable South of Market district where many Internet start-ups begin: move to a building in the even more gritty and decidedly less fashionable mid-Market neighborhood -- on a section of Market Street that is marred by drug dealing, homeless encampments and shuttered storefronts -- and get a payroll tax exemption.
Twitter, or any other company with a payroll of more than $1 million that moves into that ''rehabilitation zone,'' would have its payroll tax capped at its current level for the next six years. Hiring more employees would not increase the tax bill. And any stock option windfall would be exempt.
Last month, Twitter signed a letter of intent to rent the space if the supervisors approved the tax break.
Almost immediately, Zynga, the creator of social games like Farmville, as well as other companies with offices outside the special tax zone, tried to broaden the terms of the tax break so that it would include them. In meetings with city officials, Zynga has talked about leaving the city. Other companies like Yelp, the business review site, and Trulia, the real estate site, have stopped short of similar threats, but have instead said that the payroll tax is one of many reasons they are adding jobs outside the city.
The city cannot say whether companies have actually paid the tax. Businesses self-report the tax to the city and do not have to break out different types of compensation on their forms. City audits show that some businesses follow the law while others do not, said Jose Cisneros, the city's treasurer.
San Francisco, which had a $6.6 billion budget last year, raises around $350 million annually from the payroll tax.
The supervisor's first vote to approve the deal is scheduled for Tuesday.
Ross Mirkarimi, a supervisor, has taken issue with Twitter's deal, which had enthusiastic support from the mayor.
Last week, Mr. Mirkarimi proposed an ordinance that would make all technology companies founded after 2001 -- no matter where they are located -- exempt from payroll taxes on employee stock gains for two years. He said he wrote it with an eye toward hot Internet companies, since it applies only to nonpublicly traded companies with more than 100 employees. Those companies would still have to pay a portion of the tax, which would be a minimum of $1,500 a year per employee.
Critics of the proposed tax breaks rallied last week in front of Twitter's offices, accusing the company of hypocrisy for espousing social consciousness while seeking concessions from the city.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Twitter will remain in San Francisco but will move from its current location, above, in exchange for a payroll tax exemption. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); BONUS PAY (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



87 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include the Institute for Supply Management's service sector index for March (Tuesday); retailers' sales data for March, weekly jobless claims and consumer credit data for February (Thursday); and wholesale trade inventories for February (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting will include KB Home (Tuesday); Bed, Bath and Beyond and Monsanto (Wednesday); and Pier 1 Imports and Rite Aid (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES The Fed releases minutes from its March meeting (Tuesday). The Senate banking committee will hold a hearing on the role of accounting in preventing another financial crisis as well as a hearing on community banking (Wednesday). A Senate committee on small business will hold a hearing on programs of the Small Business Administration (Thursday).
IN THE WORLDEuropean Central Bank's governing council meets to set interest rates (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INVENTORIES (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT (89%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (88%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); RETAILERS (88%); WHOLESALERS (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); COMMUNITY BANKS (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); KB HOME CORP (58%); PIER 1 IMPORTS INC (57%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (57%); MONSANTO CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: KBH (NYSE) (58%); PIR (NYSE) (57%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (57%); MON (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS453998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS STORE RETAILERS (EXCEPT TOBACCO STORES) (57%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (57%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (57%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



88 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; HALF MOON BAY JOURNAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: In a Beachside Tourist Town, A Wrenching Decision to Outsource

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
HALF MOON BAY, Calif. -- Main Street in Half Moon Bay has all the trappings of a quaint, tourist-friendly town: a repertory theater, a collection of restaurants and more used books than one could ever read.
But what this coastal city about 25 miles south of San Francisco may soon not have is even more notable. 
At an emotionally charged meeting here on Saturday, the City Council -- saddled with a $500,000 deficit -- voted to eliminate the Police Department. That inspired tears from Mayor Naomi Patridge, who said the loss of the police, whose duties will now be handled by the county sheriff, was a blow to civic pride and the city's very identity.
''It's really hard for me to accept the fact that we're not going to have our police,'' said Ms. Patridge, 70, a retired school district employee who has spent her entire life in Half Moon Bay. ''We're going to have the sheriff, and I think they're going to do a great job. But it's not going to be the same.''
Ms. Patridge was not the only person crying; two of the city's police officers also broke down while speaking to the Council. Nor is Half Moon Bay the only town in California forced to take drastic measures to address dire financial straits; nearby San Carlos also recently outsourced its policing to the sheriff. Vallejo, meanwhile, northeast of San Francisco, declared bankruptcy in 2008, and a number of other cities have considered similar actions, including disincorporation.
But unlike Vallejo -- a blue-collar former Navy town bordering the waters of San Francisco Bay -- Half Moon Bay is a world apart: a comfortable surf-and-skate town on the Pacific whose annual pumpkin festival draws thousands of gourd fans from around the world. Blessed with sweeping ocean views, the city has both beachy bed-and-breakfasts and a Ritz-Carlton, complete with a pair of handsome seaside golf courses.
''This is a very sad day in Half Moon Bay history,'' said George Muteff, who has made the city his home for 30 years. ''But the seeds of this day were planted years ago.''
Indeed, Half Moon Bay had been struggling with the impact of an $18 million settlement from a lawsuit filed by a local developer over a parcel of land the city had apparently accidentally flooded. The city, with a current budget of $9.8 million, was also hit hard by the recession, which torpedoed city tax revenues and depressed the tourism trade.
Last fall, the city's voters rejected a sales tax measure that would have helped close the budget gap. The Police Department, the largest part of the budget, had already been slashed. Layoffs resulted in it losing more than a quarter of its employees, leaving it with just eight officers and four sergeants.
''It's my opinion that the current staff levels are not sustainable,'' Chief Lee Violett, himself a part-timer because of budget cuts, said at the meeting Saturday.
This year, the city began accepting applications for other agencies to take over policing the city, which has about 12,000 residents and small pockets of gang activity and drug dealing. Two entities applied, including the San Mateo County Sheriff's Office, which offered the city four basic options, a kind of elaborate fast-food menu for law enforcement with varying staffing levels for a set cost.
On Saturday, the Council agreed to negotiate with the sheriff to take over services under a plan that would offer, among other things, six full-time deputies, a full-time record technician and three part-time ''community service'' officers responsible for things like parking enforcement and traffic control. The savings to Half Moon Bay? About $500,000, Chief Violett said.
The proposed deal also came with an assurance that Half Moon Bay's officers would be offered jobs with the Sheriff's Office, which has also had to tighten its belt, recently cutting two dozen jobs and $5.6 million from its budget.
''We will do everything in our power to take care of them,'' Sheriff Greg Munks said of the Half Moon Bay officers.
But for officers like Dennis Loubal, a 14-year Half Moon Bay police veteran, simply having the assurance of a job was not enough to prevent tears. As he stood to speak to the Council, Officer Loubal began to sob, even as he told the city's leaders that the end of his department ''makes the most sense for the city.''
''It's saying goodbye,'' Officer Loubal said later.
Mayor Patridge was also overcome by the seeming weight of the vote, which was unanimous, stopping the meeting at one point to gather her emotions. As a young woman, Ms. Patridge had done volunteer work for the city's police. And now, she said, she feared that they were gone for good.
''Unless we win the lotto,'' she said, ''they're not going to be back.''

GRAPHIC: MAP: Half Moon Bay is known for its sweeping ocean views. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHERIFFS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (89%); OUTSOURCING (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); LITIGATION (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); SALES TAX (62%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%); TAX LAW (60%); BUDGET CUTS (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (53%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



89 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: U.S. SAID TO SEEK NEGOTIATED EXIT OF YEMENI CHIEF

BYLINE: By LAURA KASINOF and DAVID E. SANGER; Laura Kasinof reported from Sana, Yemen, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

 BODY:
SANA, Yemen -- The United States, which long supported Yemen's president, even in the face of recent widespread protests, has now quietly shifted positions and has concluded that he is unlikely to bring about the required reforms and must be eased out of office, according to American and Yemeni officials.
The Obama administration had maintained its support of President Ali Abdullah Saleh in private and refrained from directly criticizing him in public, even as his supporters fired on peaceful demonstrators, because he was considered a critical ally in fighting the Yemeni branch of Al Qaeda. This position has fueled criticism of the United States in some quarters for hypocrisy for rushing to oust a repressive autocrat in Libya but not in strategic allies like Yemen and Bahrain.
That position began to shift in the past week, administration officials said. While American officials have not publicly pressed Mr. Saleh to go, they have told allies that they now view his hold on office as untenable, and they believe he should leave. 
A Yemeni official said that the American position changed when the negotiations with Mr. Saleh on the terms of his potential departure began a little over a week ago.
''The Americans have been pushing for transfer of power since the beginning'' of those negotiations, the official said, but have not said so publicly because ''they still were involved in the negotiations.''
Those negotiations now center on a proposal for Mr. Saleh to hand over power to a provisional government led by his vice president until new elections are held. That principle ''is not in dispute,'' the Yemeni official said, only the timing and mechanism for how he would depart.
It does remain in dispute among the student-led protesters, however, who have rejected any proposal that would give power to a leading official of the Saleh government.
Washington has long had a wary relationship of mutual dependence with Mr. Saleh. The United States has provided weapons, and the Yemeni leader has allowed the United States military and the C.I.A. to strike at Qaeda strongholds. The State Department cables released by WikiLeaks gave a close-up view of that uneasy interdependence: Mr. Saleh told Gen. David H. Petraeus, then the American commander in the Middle East, that the United States could continue missile strikes against Al Qaeda as long as the fiction was maintained that Yemen was conducting them.
''We'll continue saying the bombs are ours, not yours,'' Mr. Saleh said, according to a cable sent by the American ambassador. At other times, however, Mr. Saleh resisted American requests. In a wry assessment of the United States, he told Daniel Benjamin, the State Department's counterterrorism chief, that Americans are ''hot-blooded and hasty when you need us,'' but ''cold-blooded and British when we need you.''
The negotiations in Sana began after government-linked gunmen killed more than 50 protesters at an antigovernment rally on March 18, prompting a wave of defections of high-level government officials the following week. The American and Yemeni officials who discussed the talks did so on the condition of anonymity because the talks are private and still in progress.
It is not clear whether the United States is discussing a safe passage for Mr. Saleh and his family to another country, but that appears to be the direction of the talks in Sana, the capital.
For Washington, the key to his departure would be arranging a transfer of power that would enable the counterterrorism operation in Yemen to continue.
One administration official referred to that concern last week, saying that the standoff between the president and the protesters ''has had a direct adverse impact on the security situation throughout the country.''
''Groups of various stripes -- Al Qaeda, Houthis, tribal elements, and secessionists -- are exploiting the current political turbulence and emerging fissures within the military and security services for their own gain,'' the official said. ''Until President Saleh is able to resolve the current political impasse by announcing how and when he will follow through on his earlier commitment to take tangible steps to meet opposition demands, the security situation in Yemen is at risk of further deterioration.''
In recent days, American officials in Washington have hinted at the change in position.
Those ''tangible steps,'' another official said, could include giving in to the demand that he step down.
At a State Department briefing recently, a spokesman, Mark Toner, was questioned on whether there had been planning for a post-Saleh Yemen. While he did not answer the question directly, he said, in part, that counterterrorism in Yemen ''goes beyond any one individual.''
In addition to the huge street demonstrations that have convulsed the country in the last two months, the deteriorating security situation in Yemen includes a Houthi rebellion in the north, a secessionist movement in the south and an active Qaeda operation in the southeast. Houthi rebels seized control of Saada Province a week ago, and armed militants have taken over a city in the southern province of Abyan where Al Qaeda is known to have set up a base.
Among Yemenis, there is a feeling that there is a race against the clock to resolve the political impasse before the country implodes. In addition to the security concerns, Yemen faces an economic crisis.
Food prices are rising; the value of the Yemeni currency, the rial, is dropping sharply; and dollars are disappearing from currency exchange shops. According to the World Food Program, the price of wheat flour has increased 45 percent since mid-March and rice by 22 percent.
Analysts have also expressed concern that Mr. Saleh is depleting the national reserves paying for promises to keep himself in power. Mr. Saleh has paid thousands of supporters to come to the capital to stage pro-government protests and given out money to tribal leaders to secure their loyalties. In February he promised to cut income taxes and raise salaries for civil servants and the military to try to tamp down discontent.
''It's not a recession, it's not a depression, it's a mess,'' said Mohammed Abulahom, a prominent member of Parliament for Mr. Saleh's governing party who now supports the protesters.
The fact that the Americans are ''seriously engaged in discussion on how to transfer power shows their willingness to figure out a way to transfer power,'' he said.
He said the Americans ''are doing what ought to be done, and we will see more pressure down the road.''
The criticism of the United States for failing to publicly support Yemen's protesters has been loudest here, where the protesters insist the United States' only concern is counterterrorism.
''We are really very, very angry because America until now didn't help us similar to what Mr. Obama said that Mubarak has to leave now,'' said Tawakul Karman, a leader of the antigovernment youth movement. ''Obama says he appreciated the courage and dignity of Tunisian people. He didn't say that for Yemeni people.''
''We feel that we have been betrayed,'' she said.
Hamza Alkamaly, 23, a prominent student leader, agreed. ''We students lost our trust in the United States,'' he said. ''We thought the United States would help us in the first time because we are calling for our freedom.''
Late Saturday night, Yemen's opposition coalition, the Joint Meetings Parties, proposed an outline for a transfer of power that has become the new focus of the talks. The proposal calls for power to be transferred immediately to Vice President Abd al-Rab Mansur al-Hadi until presidential elections are held.
The young protesters have rejected the proposal, or any that would leave a leading Saleh official in charge.
Late Sunday, the Gulf Cooperation Council, an association of oil-rich countries in the Persian Gulf, added its backing to the talks, issuing a statement saying it would press the Yemeni government and opposition to work toward an agreement to ''overcome the status quo.'' The group called for a return to negotiations to ''achieve the aspirations of the Yemeni people by means of reforms.''
So far the council, including Yemen's largest international donor, Saudi Arabia, has not taken part in the negotiations, Yemeni officials said.
There were also more clashes between security forces and protesters on Sunday in the city of Taiz. Hundreds of people were injured by tear gas, rocks and gunfire, and there were conflicting reports as to whether a protester had been killed. Witnesses said security forces fired at the protesters and into the air.
Early Monday, security forces in Hodeidah, a western port city, used to tear gas to break up a protest march on the presidential palace there.
According to Amnesty International, at least 95 people have died during two months of antigovernment protests.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters who had inhaled tear gas in clashes with the police on Sunday in Taiz, where hundreds of people were reported injured. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); AL-QAEDA (75%); BOMBINGS (75%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); DAVID PETRAEUS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIZ, YEMEN (58%) YEMEN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



90 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CULTURE AND CONTROL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2484 words

HEADLINE: At China's Grand New Museum, History Toes the Party Line

BYLINE: By IAN JOHNSON; Zhang Jing contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- At the elaborately renovated National Museum of China in Tiananmen Square, visitors interested in the recent history of the world's fastest rising power can gaze at the cowboy hat that Deng Xiaoping once wore when he visited the United States, or admire the bullhorn that President Hu Jintao used to exhort people to overcome hardship after the Sichuan earthquake in 2008.
But if their interests run to the Cultural Revolution that tore the country apart from 1966 to 1976 and resulted in millions of deaths, they will have to search a back corner of the two-million-square-foot museum, which will complete its opening this month, for a single photograph and three lines of text that are the only reference to that era.
China spent more than a decade and nearly $400 million to remake the National Museum into a leading showcase of history and culture, a monument to its rising power no less grand -- it is designed to be the world's largest museum under one roof -- and more enduring than the Olympic Games it hosted in 2008. 
But one tradition has remained firmly in place: China will not confront its own history. The museum is less the product of extensive research, discovery or creativity than the most prominent symbol of the Communist Party's efforts to control the narrative of history and suppress alternative points of view, even those that exist within the governing elite. It is also an example of how China finds it difficult to create cultural institutions that prove equal to its economic achievements.
Interviews with participants describe a tortured reconstruction that dragged on years longer than envisioned, with plans constantly revised to accommodate political twists and turns, many decided personally by top party leaders.
Officials rejected proposals for a permanent historical exhibition that would have discussed the disasters of early Communist rule -- especially the Great Leap Forward, a political campaign and resulting famine that killed more than 20 million. Some organizers also wanted a candid appraisal of the Cultural Revolution, a decade-long attack on traditional culture and learning, but that effort was squashed.
Instead, the authorities decided that the exhibition on contemporary China should focus, as did the museum before its extensive makeover, on the party's triumphs.
Another permanent exhibit, on China's ancient history, also presents an idealized version of the past. It tells the uplifting story of Chinese ethnic groups pulling together to create ''brilliant achievements.''
''The party wants to determine historical truth,'' said Yang Jisheng, a historian whose landmark book on the Great Leap Forward famine was banned in China. ''It worries that if competing versions are allowed, then its legitimacy will be called into question.''
Many countries do not present their history in terms independent historians consider fully credible. American museums have been under pressure to account more fully for slavery. American Indians won a long battle to open their own museum on the Mall in Washington; other museums celebrate the westward expansion of the United States but give short shrift to the displacement and killing of American Indians.
Even so, few countries can compete with China in so completely suppressing the shades of gray about their past. One result is that the Chinese public rarely has access, even on the Internet, to versions of history that differ from party propaganda, and popular support for some nationalist causes is sometimes even stronger than the party's own stances. Many Chinese are bewildered, for example, that some Tibetans or Uighurs are dissatisfied with Chinese rule or that Japanese and Taiwanese might have differing views of China's claims on their territory.
This means that the National Museum, which has been granted unlimited access to treasures and relics of China's long history, has failed to escape the political constraints that for centuries have hobbled the study of Chinese history. Then, as now, rulers used history to shape the present, a leitmotif that has marked almost every era.
''A public museum in China is seldom about the past,'' said Hung Chang-tai, a professor at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology who has written on the museum. ''It is about the current image of the party and how the party wants itself to be seen.''
The Red Line
The National Museum has its roots in the Communist Party's desire for a legacy. In his memoirs, Wang Yeqiu, who would become the museum's director, recalls joining Communist troops as they entered Beijing in 1949 and making straight for a prison to secure a scaffold used in 1927 to hang one of the party's founding members. The scaffold became the first item in the museum's collection. But its opening in 1959 was marred by a problem that would haunt it to the present -- politics. Prime Minister Zhou Enlai visited the proposed exhibition and said it did not emphasize the ''red line'': the line of thought of Mao, the country's supreme leader.
Over the next decades, the museum spent more time closed than open. It formally opened in 1961, then closed at the onset of the Cultural Revolution in 1966, reopening in 1979 and then going through a series of closings and openings as leaders strove for an interpretation of the past they could accept. The exhibition on contemporary history closed for good in 2001 as officials began to see the museum as an anachronism that did not promote a modern image to the outside world. That year, Beijing won its bid to host the 2008 Olympics, and officials were worried that the national capital would not be a worthy host. A year earlier, a British research institute rated Beijing a third-tier city on a par with Warsaw and Bangkok. The report was widely discussed in China, with officials noting that Beijing had no noteworthy museums or galleries.
What Beijing needed, officials decided, was a world-class museum in time for the Olympics. In the past, the site on Tiananmen Square actually housed two institutions: the Museum of Chinese History and the Museum of the Chinese Revolution. In 2003, the two were combined and renamed the National Museum of China, excising the Communist-sounding nomenclature. The name change also allowed for shows that did not directly touch on Chinese history, although history was to remain its focus.
Officials created an international architectural competition won by the large German firm Gerkan, Marg and Partner. The Germans called for a huge atrium, in which Chinese history could be exhibited overlooking important sites of the country's past and present. Construction was to begin in 2005.
But senior officials rejected the plan, setting off years of meetings and redesigns, according to an official in the Ministry of Culture who asked to remain anonymous because of the issue's delicacy. China's cabinet, the State Council, weighed in, saying the new, arching roof would destroy the building's original design. Other critics said the atrium was too grandiose, while the museum's new director, himself an architect, wanted more floor space, according to participants in the meetings. The opening date was pushed back to Oct. 1, 2009, the 60th anniversary of Communist rule.
Aiming to Be the Biggest
All told, there were seven major revisions. In the end, they kept a grand entrance hall -- 850 feet long and 100 feet high -- linking the two old wings. But most of the original open area was now filled with a giant new building. One of the primary goals was to make the museum the world's largest.
''I got a call asking how many square meters is the Louvre,'' recalled Martin Roth, director of Dresden's state museums and an informal consultant to the museum for a decade. ''Then 10 minutes later another call asking how many square meters is the British Museum. I said, 'You guys are sitting with the architects and are figuring out how to be the biggest, right?' They laughed and said yes.''
Chinese officials are reticent about the new museum. Repeated requests over two months for interviews with the museum director or other senior officials were rebuffed. Instead, online publicity material was printed and faxed in response to written questions. But Tian Shanting, who runs the museum's foreign affairs office, said the square footage was important.
''We feel we had a lot to show and need the space,'' Mr. Tian said. ''It's not about being the biggest, but China does have 5,000 years of culture so it's not inappropriate to be the biggest.''
Finally, in 2006, a member of the nine-man Standing Committee of the Politburo, Li Changchun, gave the go-ahead and an official notice was issued by the State Council. Construction began in 2007, but the opening date was again pushed back until 2011.
As officials debated the architecture, they also scrutinized the content. Although the museum now has a broader focus than before -- one exhibition in late April will survey Incan civilization -- its centerpieces are two permanent exhibitions on Chinese history, one on its ancient past and one looking at the past 150 years.
The biggest -- taking up a quarter of the entire exhibition space -- is ''Ancient China,'' a mammoth survey of thousands of years of history scheduled to open April 15.
The exhibition walks a delicate line. Organized by Chinese dynasties, it tries to show how all of the 56 ethnic groups in today's China have always worked together harmoniously. Even the Mongolian empire, which conquered China in the 12th century, is made part of the story. It is referred to as a precursor of today's multicultural China.
''It ignores the conflicts, which real history shouldn't do,'' said an archaeology professor at Peking University who asked to remain anonymous because of the issue's delicacy. ''This is why I would not call this exhibition real history but propaganda.''
According to the archaeologist, who was consulted on the exhibition, a panel of experts considered other versions of history, but this was quickly rebuffed. Officials from the party's Propaganda Department, who were observing the meetings, said the museum should adopt a policy to ''emphasize precious objects.'' That is reflected in the final product, which will feature 2,520 ''precious objects,'' including 521 ''first-class precious objects.''
Celebratory Exhibits
Politics, by contrast, defines the other exhibit, ''The Road to Rejuvenation,'' which recounts the history of China from the First Opium War of 1839 to the present day. This was the exhibit that in past years was fraught with the most blatant simplifications -- and the new one is no different.
The general story line, ingrained in every Chinese student, is that China was humiliated by Western powers. Then some well-meaning but misguided patriots took up the fight until they were properly led by the Communists, whose inevitable victory in 1949 started China's recovery. After ''building socialism'' during the Communists' first 30 years in power, the country took off during the past 30 years of reform. There is no discussion of why the party dropped central planning policies in the late 1970s, or even that such a momentous shift took place.
In the 1990s, museum curators proposed a much franker look at the problems that led to the current era of reform. Initially, they designed a section called ''10 years of tortuous development'' on the 1950s and '60s, including the Great Leap Forward's devastating famine, according to Kirk Denton, a professor at Ohio State University who is writing a book on China's museums. Curators proposed a similar section in the current exhibit, arguing that this era was decades in the past and the party was now strong enough to withstand criticism. That idea was rejected, however, after a lengthy debate, according to Ministry of Culture officials. In the end, the famine, widely regarded as the worst in recorded history, is only euphemistically mentioned by the phrase that ''the project of constructing socialism suffered severe complications.'' The Cultural Revolution was reduced to the photograph and brief caption.
''We wanted to celebrate China,'' Mr. Tian said. ''I think that's understandable.''
Likewise, there is no mention of the Tiananmen Square demonstrations in 1989 or the disgraced party secretary, Zhao Ziyang, who helped pioneer economic reforms but was forced out of power after the unrest that year.
Instead, the exhibition features relatively anodyne objects like Deng's cowboy hat and Mr. Hu's bullhorn. It also displays ''A double-edged sword inlaid with diamonds, presented to Hu Jintao from Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez.''
Some visitors said they had hoped for more. Zhang Zhencai, a 65-year-old retired storeroom manager in a logistics company, said he expected a closer look at the first 30 years of Communist rule.
''I wondered why there was not more on it,'' Mr. Zhang said. ''The younger generation should see all that history, so they are able to compare it to what we have today.'' His wife, Wang Jusheng, however, said she was not surprised: ''What happened in those years, especially the late 1950s and 1960s, were mostly errors.''
A Demanding Agenda
The difficulty in coming up with an innovative interpretation of China's recent past suggests that the staff may have trouble filling the vast galleries with the variety and quality of exhibits characteristic of a world-class museum. The opening exhibition on the European Enlightenment, for example, will run for 12 months -- an unusually long period of time that surprised the three German museums that organized it.
''It's highly unusual, but the Chinese wanted it,'' said Michael Eissenhauer, director of the State Museums of Berlin. To meet the request, German curators will have to find substitutes for up to a third of the objects, some of which were promised years ago for other exhibitions or which are too fragile to be exposed to light for 12 months.
The Enlightenment show, although tantalizing, will also avoid overt mention of the political ideas -- such as universal human rights -- that drove that period of European history. ''It's an art exhibit and not a political show,'' Mr. Eissenhauer said. That means themes of individuality or rights will be alluded to in paintings or furniture but not explicitly discussed.
Broaching such topics, however, is likely to determine whether the National Museum of China joins the ranks of the world's top museums, said Freda Murck, a Beijing-based art historian who has organized exhibitions for museums around the world. Ms. Murck said that what made a great museum was not its hardware but the quality and daring of its staff.
''What they need are passionate curators to go into those bronzes and textiles and find new interpretations,'' Ms. Murck said. ''Because a great museum depends on a great curatorial staff.''
Culture and Control: Articles in this series will explore the struggle to shape the culture of authoritarian China.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An exhibit at the new National Museum of China recreates Mao Zedong declaring the start of Communist control. (A1)
Top left, the National Museum of China in Tiananmen Square. Above, a grand entrance hall, 850 feet long and 100 feet high, links two wings that used to be the Museum of Chinese History and the Museum of the Chinese Revolution.
From left, an exhibit on China's achievements in space flight
an exhibition commemorating Oct. 1, 1949, when Mao Zedong proclaimed The People's Republic of China
 workmen hanging a painting from Germany for the museum's show on the European Enlightenment. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHI YIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); HISTORY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); OLYMPICS (79%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); FAMINE (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); ETHNICITY (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (56%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (90%); SICHUAN, CHINA (73%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (79%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



91 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Animation Meets Economic Reality

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
SANTA MONICA, Calif. -- Hollywood's cartoon kings typically work in splendorous surroundings. Jeffrey Katzenberg runs DreamWorks Animation from a Mediterranean-style campus replete with olive trees and fountains. At Pixar's glistening complex, John Lasseter has an Olympic-size swimming pool.
So what is Christopher Meledandri, the guy behind the ''Ice Age'' movies and ''Despicable Me,'' doing camped in a dreary office near a cement factory here? Where are all the creature comforts computer animation companies supposedly need to attract talent and inspire creativity?
As Mr. Meledandri will tell you, his is not a typical animation operation. He wants to prove that strict cost controls and hit animated films are not mutually exclusive, that these pictures do not have to cost $150 million, which is about what Paramount Pictures and its partners spent on ''Rango.'' They can cost $69 million, the budget for ''Despicable Me.''
''Very few management layers, clear decision-making, shortening the length of time you spend developing a movie -- it can be done,'' he said. Hiring vocal talent with less star power and keeping investment in animation technology to a minimum also keep his costs down. 
If Mr. Meledandri can deliver on that promise it will make his Illumination Entertainment the envy of Hollywood. At a time when moviegoing in North America is sputtering -- attendance is down 20 percent so far this year compared with the same period last year -- studios are racing toward the one genre that is reliably packing multiplexes: family films, particularly animated ones. The problem is that these computer-generated, broad-appeal movies almost without exception cost over $100 million to make.
By contrast, Mr. Meledandri's latest film, ''Hop,'' cost $63 million. A hybrid of animation and live-action, ''Hop,'' billed as the story of ''candy, chicks and rock 'n' roll,'' was a strong No. 1 over the weekend, selling an estimated $38 million at the North American box office.
Already, Mr. Meledandri's fiscally cautious approach and track record -- ''Despicable Me'' sold over $544 million at the global box office last summer -- is re-ordering power on the Universal Pictures lot. For years, that studio's dominant suppliers have been Imagine Entertainment, owned by Ron Howard and Brian Grazer, and Working Title Films, whose movies include ''Nanny McPhee.'' Now Illumination at the very least stands on equal footing.
Universal, which must keep all the egos in its producer ranks from colliding, plays down any rivalry. Mr. Meledandri's ascension ''should not make other producers feel competitive,'' said Adam Fogelson, Universal's chairman. While the animation giants are feeling some pressure from Illumination's low-cost model, those competitors are also playing nice. For now.
''It's not an accident that Chris has done great,'' Mr. Katzenberg said. ''He's one of the true talents in the animation field.''
The rise of Illumination offers clues about the filmmaking priorities of Comcast, which took control of Universal in January. So far, the cable company has said almost nothing about its plans for the studio, and Stephen B. Burke, chief executive of NBC Universal, declined to comment for this article.
But Hollywood is reading the tea leaves. Universal has urged Illumination to hire more executives and double output to two pictures a year by 2013. Mr. Burke is ''a huge, huge fan'' of Mr. Meledandri, according to one NBC Universal executive who asked for anonymity to avoid conflicts with his boss. In particular, this person said, Mr. Burke likes Mr. Meledandri's unflashy personal style, low-cost approach and eagerness to use NBC Universal's other divisions for marketing purposes; with ''Hop,'' for instance, Easter eggs were hidden in the backgrounds of NBC's Thursday night comedies.
''Our taste is in alignment,'' Mr. Meledandri said of Mr. Burke, adding that he has had conversations with the NBC Universal chief about adding to Illumination's presence at Universal theme parks.
Movies in Illumination's pipeline are animated, live-action and a combination of both. Projects include a Tim Burton adaptation of ''The Addams Family,'' ''Despicable Me 2,'' a new take on ''Curious George'' and a ''Where's Waldo'' movie. Mr. Meledandri's 30 or so employees in Santa Monica are working to adapt ''Flanimals,'' the children's book series by Ricky Gervais.
Mr. Meledandri also has close ties to the estate of Theodor Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss. Illumination's version of ''The Lorax'' is scheduled for release next year.
Audrey Geisel, the author's widow, was soured by her experience in 2003 with ''The Cat in the Hat,'' which was distributed by Universal, complaining about the casting of Mike Myers and sophomoric humor in the script. But Mr. Meledandri won her trust with his work on the 2008 movie adaptation of ''Horton Hears a Who!''
''The quality of Chris's work looks far beyond the means,'' said Donna Langley, Universal's co-chairwoman. ''Watching him is quite a marvel to behold.''
Just who is this new Hollywood heavyweight?
The soft-spoken, somewhat chilly Mr. Meledandri, 51, grew up on Manhattan's Upper East Side, where his father, Roland Meledandri, operated an exclusive men's clothing store frequented by entertainment power figures like the producer Robert Evans, a young David Geffen and Robert Redford.
After the young Mr. Meledandri graduated from Dartmouth, another customer of his father's shop, a producer named Daniel Melnick, hired him to work as an assistant on ''Footloose.'' A few years later, after helping produce a string of minor films, Mr. Meledandri found himself running a production company that hit it big with ''Cool Runnings,'' a family comedy about the Jamaican bobsled team. That experience, combined with the birth of his first child, sent Mr. Meledandri on a path toward animation.
At 20th Century Fox Mr. Meledandri made a name for himself in that field, starting with ''Ice Age'' in 2003. The three ''Ice Age'' movies attracted more than $2 billion at the global box office. His credits also include ''Alvin and the Chipmunks.''
''It is rare to find people whose business sense is as strong as their creative sense,'' said Peter Chernin, the former president of the News Corporation, which owns Fox. ''Chris probably exemplifies that combination better than anyone I know.'' Although Mr. Meledandri has undoubtedly made enemies in Hollywood -- everyone who succeeds here does -- Mr. Chernin said he was ''beloved'' at Fox.
Universal nabbed Mr. Meledandri in late 2007. Universal's management at the time, in particular David Linde, who was the studio's co-chairman, saw an opportunity to put Universal into the thick of the family entertainment chase. NBC Universal agreed to fully finance Illumination's films. Whereas DreamWorks and Pixar do their animation in house, Illumination largely relies on an overseas rendering shop (which accounts for the spare headquarters in Santa Monica). Mr. Meledandri, who is Illumination's chief executive, has an undisclosed equity stake, and his deal gives him a portion of box-office sales.
Universal has since extended Mr. Meledandri's contract through 2017.
For all his accomplishments, Mr. Meledandri still has a lot to prove. Winning at animation is getting harder as competition grows, and DreamWorks and Pixar may be better positioned to continue leading the market because they do spend heavily on new computer technology, operate bigger development pipelines and employ their own artists. Illumination's momentum could falter overnight with one big flop.
And for all of Mr. Meledandri's talk about lean and mean, it is difficult to stop fat from accumulating at a company over time. Asked about how he will address that challenge, Mr. Meledandri clasped his hands behind his head and stared into space for a moment. ''A lot of it is about a mindset and adhering to that mindset,'' he finally said. ''You can't become intoxicated with success.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christopher Meledandri has made several hit animated movies, like ''Despicable Me,'' top, on a relatively small budget. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
UNIVERSAL PICTURES AND ILLUMINATION ENTERTAINMENT) (B1)
 Illumination Entertainment's latest movie, ''Hop,'' cost $63 million to make. It was No. 1 at the box office over the weekend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RHYTHM & HUES/UNIVERSAL PICTURES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (95%); ANIMATED FILMS (92%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (73%); CEMENT MFG (71%); TICKET SALES (69%)

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (58%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (51%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (58%)

PERSON: RON HOWARD (79%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (73%); JOHN LASSETER (58%); BRIAN GRAZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



92 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Libyan Rebels Show Division After Setbacks

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

 BODY:
BENGHAZI, Libya -- With the rebels' battlefield fortunes sagging, the three men in charge of the Libyan opposition forces were summoned late last week by the ad-hoc leadership of their movement to a series of meetings here in the rebel capital.
The rebel army's nominal leader, Abdul Fattah Younes, a former interior minister and friend of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi whom many rebel leaders distrusted, could offer little explanation for the recent military stumbles, two people with knowledge of the meetings said.
Making matters worse, the men could hardly stand one another. They included Khalifa Heftar, a former general who returned recently from exile in the United States and appointed himself as the rebel field commander, the movement's leaders said, and Omar el-Hariri, a former political prisoner who occupied the largely ceremonial role of defense minister.
''They behaved like children,'' said Fathi Baja, a political science professor who heads the rebel political committee. 
Little was accomplished in the meetings, the participants said. When they concluded late last week, Mr. Younes was still the head of the army and Mr. Hariri remained as the defense minister. Only Mr. Heftar, who reportedly refused to work with Mr. Younes, was forced out. On Sunday, though, in a sign that divisions persisted, Mr. Heftar's son said his father was still an army leader.
As the struggle with Colonel Qaddafi threatened to settle into a stalemate, the rebel government here was showing growing strains that imperil its struggle to complete a revolution and jeopardize requests for foreign military aid and recognition.
In an appearance Sunday on ''State of the Union'' on CNN, Gen. James L. Jones, President Obama's former national security adviser, said that the United States ''is buying space for the opposition to get organized.''
But a White House official said last week that Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton was extremely reluctant to send arms to the rebels ''because of the unknowns'' about who they are, their backgrounds and motivations.
''It's a moment in time where there is no real clarity,'' said General Jones, who is now a senior fellow at the Bipartisan Policy Center. ''But the things being worked on are being worked on to get that clarity.''
The meeting on the faltering military effort was a study in the struggles of an inexperienced rebel movement trying to assert its authority, hold on to its revolutionary ideals and learn how to run a nation on the job. In a country where politics was dominated for decades by the colonel, his family and his loyalists, the rebels have turned for leadership to former government figures and exiles they seem to know by reputation alone, and whose motives they do not always trust.
There have been several hopeful signs. Experts on oil and the economy have joined the rebel ranks, and a spokesman prone to delusional announcements was quietly replaced. Police officers appeared on the streets of Benghazi this week, in crisp new uniforms. Despite the dismal progress on the battlefield, thousands of Libyan men still enthusiastically volunteer to travel to the front every week.
Still, many decisions remain shrouded in secrecy and are leaked to Libyans piecemeal by a few rebel leaders who seem to enjoy seeing themselves on Al Jazeera, the satellite news channel. And with each day that Colonel Qaddafi remains in power, the self-appointed leaders of the rebel movement face growing questions about their own legitimacy and choices.
After the Benghazi meetings, a screaming match broke out when Mr. Heftar's supporters berated a rebel leader for choosing Mr. Younes to lead the army. A young lawyer, Fathi Terbil, who helped start the uprising, was reduced to running around trying to separate people. Watching the argument, Wahid Bugaighis, who was recently appointed to oversee oil interests, said the tumult was the inevitable result of Colonel Qaddafi's long dictatorship.
Even so, he was cautiously hopeful. ''At least they're not shooting each other,'' he said, before security guards escorted a reporter away from the scene.
On Sunday, the military shake-up seemed to be under review again. An adviser to the rebels said they were now consulting field commanders as a way of determining who should lead the army.
The location of the meetings last week, in a hotel conference room, signified how the rebel movement has evolved from its earliest days. The courthouse by the Mediterranean where the rebels started their protests now often seems empty, more of a shrine to a popular movement than its headquarters.
It has become increasingly difficult to locate the center of rebel power.
Many rebels have never met two of their most prominent leaders: Mahmoud Jibril, an exiled former government official, and Ali al-Essawi, the former Libyan ambassador to India. Mr. Jibril, a well-regarded planning expert, has not returned to Libya since the uprising began, spending some of his time meeting overseas with foreign leaders. The two sit on a rebel executive council, one of several governing structures that the rebels refuse to call a government.
Calling it one, they say, might alienate opposition figures in western Libya and promote fears about a civil war. The rebels also clearly think that Mr. Jibril, who was educated in the United States, and another executive committee member, Ali Tarhouni, who until recently taught economics at the University of Washington, will be able to help sell the rebels' cause abroad.
Mr. Tarhouni, the picture of a rumpled professor, has injected a rare dose of realism into the rebel pronouncements, debunking claims made by rebel army leaders about a large, powerful force at their disposal.
The voice of Libyans is supposed to be represented by a national council, headed by the former justice minister, Mustafa Abdul Jalil, a religious conservative in a council that includes free-market liberals and men like Mr. Baja, the professor, who calls himself a social democrat.
Mr. Jalil never had the same close ties to Colonel Qaddafi that Mr. Younes did, and many of the rebel leaders say they remember modest stands he took against the government. At the same time, as justice minister, he presided over a system manipulated by the government.
On the edges of the rebel leadership structure, volunteers have assumed powerful roles, often away from the public eye. They include surgeons who have driven ambulances, businessmen who have supplied besieged cities with arms, and Islamists who have taken their experience fighting in Afghanistan to Libya's front lines.
Another volunteer, Fawzi Bukatef, a soft-spoken petroleum engineer, heads the February 17th Brigade, a group of fighters who battle Qaddafi forces in cities like Brega and on the streets of Benghazi, where hundreds of loyalists are said to be hiding.
Mr. Bukatef operates from a base that used to be a headquarters for the loyalists and is now a training center that is being outfitted to serve as a detention center for prisoners of war. His men have killed the colonel's troops in gun battles, and he says they need more arms. It is unclear whom he answers to, or how many fighters he commands, but it is clear that this was work he did not choose.
''Our revolt started peacefully,'' he said, repeating a mantra of the resistance leaders, at once an explanation and an apology.
In a sixth-floor office in Benghazi, a law professor, Ahmed Sadek El Gehani, along with three colleagues, has been quietly helping to create a temporary constitution for the country. Mr. Gehani represents the mainstreaming of the revolt: he once worked as a consultant to the Qaddafi government on legal matters abroad, and is now trying to end the state's intervention in the judicial system.
A draft article in the Constitution says: ''All citizens, men and women, are equal in their rights and duties and equal before the law, without discrimination because of gender, ethnicity, color or religion.''
The document, which Mr. Gehani called ''progressive,'' was a reminder that away from the drama in the upper echelons of the leadership, a core of activists is still protecting the aims of the uprising, including a new constitution and greater freedoms. This group has pleaded for patience as the young movement struggles, and refuses to apologize for seeking foreign help. ''What were we supposed to do, just die?'' asked Iman Bugaighis, a university professor who has become the rebels' tireless spokeswoman.
Mr. Baja, who said he had been investigated by Libya's security services more than 18 times, said there was no way to prepare for the aftermath of the uprising. ''Nothing was planned. This was all spontaneous,'' he said, adding that he and his peers would not let the movement fail.
Mr. Younes -- or whoever led the army -- would have to answer to civilians, he said. ''They will be held accountable.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rebels waited on Sunday for dinner to be served at their makeshift camp in Ajdabiya. The inexperienced opposition movement is still trying to assert its authority. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, left, met in Paris with Ali al-Essawi, center, and Mahmoud Jibril of the rebel council. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHE ENA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JAMES L JONES (54%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



93 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P's 2012 Strategy Puts Focus on Timing

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - The last time Republicans challenged an incumbent Democratic president, they were simultaneously running a Congressional revolution.
That experience in 1996 proved awkward - and costly. Worse, their very first primary in that contest effectively eliminated the challenger feared most by some of President Bill Clinton's top advisers.
This time, Republicans are taking a different approach against President Obama, who opens his re-election campaign this week. The road toward ousting an incumbent always runs uphill, but Mr. Obama's adversaries are trying to level their odds in two significant ways. 
The first: a delay by top candidates in entering the race. Aside from conserving energy and resources, that would distance contenders like Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi and former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts from the unpredictable budget showdown between Republicans and Democrats in Washington.
The second: an effort by party leaders to slow down the anointment of a nominee once delegate selection begins early next year. Instead of a flash verdict produced by tiny electorates in the states that vote earliest, the Republican National Committee seeks a longer competition to battle-test its standard-bearer the way Hillary Rodham Clinton tested Mr. Obama in 2008.
''It makes for a stronger nominee at the end,'' said Ed Gillespie, a former party chairman and senior aide to President George W. Bush. Considering that incumbent presidents seeking re-election since 1900 have won 14 times and lost only 5, Republicans need such a nominee.
By this point in 1995, several major candidates had entered the Republican race. The front-runner, Senator Bob Dole, the majority leader, announced his candidacy April 10.
With one nomination rival, Phil Gramm of Texas, pressing from the right within the Senate, Mr. Dole joined Speaker Newt Gingrich in a budget fight with Mr. Clinton that ended disastrously in a government shutdown. Mr. Clinton's attacks on ''Dole-Gingrich'' cutbacks hobbled the Republican ticket.
Now, as Speaker John A. Boehner wrestles Mr. Obama and Tea Party Republicans over spending, no major Republican contender is running from Washington. And among top-tier candidates, only former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota has even opened a presidential exploratory committee.
''The Tea Party's still a bit of an unknown,'' said Scott Reed, who managed Mr. Dole's 1996 campaign. He added that ''2012 candidates have been smart to come out of the blocks a little slower.''
Candidates have other reasons to wait besides dodging Washington land mines. Mr. Romney wants to shorten intraparty scrutiny of his record, including a Massachusetts health care plan resembling Mr. Obama's national program.
Delaying also allows him and others to avoid burning through cash raised under federal campaign finance rules. Using advances in the political equivalent of Wall Street financial engineering, they rely instead on state-chartered fund-raising vehicles to help cover travel and staff expenses.
''People have perfected the prepresidential race political action committee,'' said Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's former strategist. Easier prepresidential schedules also save wear and tear before the nomination sprint begins this fall.
''Once you become an official candidate,'' Mr. Rove noted, ''there's just a natural pressure never to get off the trail.''
Longer Contest
Mr. Obama lags behind his own schedule from 2008, when he needed an early start to counter Mrs. Clinton's advantages. Now he holds every incumbent's ace: an ability to focus exclusively on the general election.
''It's advantageous to us to get a campaign structure put together, build an organization and put resources away,'' said David Axelrod, who recently left the White House to set 2012 strategy.
But even as Mr. Obama aims for a billion-dollar campaign chest, Republicans aren't seeking the quickest possible nomination fight. Indeed, the party has adopted delegate rules that increase the chances for a longer battle.
Instead of giving primary winners all of a state's convention delegates, Republicans plan to award delegates proportionate to vote totals for March primaries after the initial contests in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina. If that plan survives jockeying by states for position on the primary calendar, it may help challengers hang on longer in hopes of catching the early leader.
A longer 1996 contest might have improved chances for Lamar Alexander, a former Tennessee governor who is now a senator, to overtake Mr. Dole. Instead, his third-place New Hampshire showing finished him - to the relief of Clinton strategists concerned by his record as governor and his outside-Washington positioning.
By creating energy and attention, an extended 2012 nomination fight could also offset Mr. Obama's organizational head start. ''It's a wash at worst,'' Mr. Gillespie said.
It remains ''an election for Obama to lose,'' as Mr. Reed put it. But with unemployment still high, despite recent improvement, and a new military conflict in Libya to go with old ones in Iraq and Afghanistan, his path may be more complex than Mr. Clinton's.
Mr. Reed concluded: ''This is a nomination worth fighting for.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Republicans weighing a run may be informed by the last time the party faced an incumbent Democrat: when Senator Bob Dole, left, took on President Bill Clinton in 1996. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN McNAMEE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); FUNDRAISING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011



94 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: April 4, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Good News About the U.S. Economy?

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: 6 Q's About the News | How many jobs did the U.S. economy add in March? 

 BODY:
HOW many jobs did the U.S. economy add in March?
HOW many months in a row has there been private sector job growth?
WHAT policies did President Obama and his fellow Democrats say were shown to be working as a result of the good economic news?
WHO have "spoken of cutting deeply into the federal budget and have threatened a government shutdown"?
WHY are there still "more than a few cautionary signs" that the national economy has not been "cured of all its ills"?
WHEN did the unemployment rate hit its peak during this recession?
WHERE are there "international storm clouds" that might compromise U.S.economic growth?
WHERE in your local community do you see encouraging signs that the economy is gaining strength?

        
Income and the Top 1 Percent
        
Study: Largest Wealth Disparities in 25 Years
        
Doing Good in a Bad Economy
        
A Tale of One City: Examining Urban Decay and Renewal
        
Onward and Upward? Documenting Local Economic Conditions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); BUDGETS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%) Economics (Des);; economy; Great Recession; Recession and Depression (Des);; 6 Q's About the News

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011



95 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Who Could Blame G.E.?

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
With tax day fast approaching, many Americans are thinking hard, and perhaps a little creatively, about finding deductions to help lower their tax bills. Nobody, after all, likes paying more taxes than they have to. So why in the world should we expect the mighty General Electric to act any differently?
Because it's a giant, profitable multinational corporation? If anything, the fact that G.E. is a big company should give it even more incentive than we mere human taxpayers to minimize its tax bill. The executives who run America's corporations have a fiduciary duty to maximize profit for their shareholders. That's what they're programmed to do. One way to maximize profits is to minimize taxes, something G.E. does better than just about any other company. If I were a G.E. shareholder, I would be thrilled to learn that its vaunted 1,000-person tax department is viewed within the company as a profit center. 
Yet the article The New York Times published a few weeks ago -- saying that G.E. was likely to pay no federal income tax at all in 2010 -- has landed like a bombshell, arousing the kind of populist outrage that hasn't been seen since those derivatives traders at A.I.G. got their last big bonuses. In responding to the article, G.E. did not exactly help itself with its defensive tweets and conflicting statements. A week ago, a G.E. spokeswoman told a reporter that ''G.E. did not pay U.S. federal income taxes last year because we don't owe any.'' On Monday, its tune changed. In an article jointly published by Fortune and ProPublica, a company spokesman said, ''We expect to have a small U.S. income tax liability for 2010.''
Whatever. The point remains that the company is going to pay little or nothing in federal income taxes for 2010. And the unambiguous reason for this is that G.E. took full advantage of the various tax loopholes in the U.S. tax code that are available to it. Wouldn't you? The real villain here isn't G.E. for gaming the corporate tax system. Rather, the villain is a political system that makes the corporate tax system so easy to game.
There are two primary reasons why G.E.'s 2010 tax bill is so low. The first is pretty straightforward: its finance arm, G.E. Capital, lost billions of dollars during the financial crisis. Like any business entity, it is allowed to use those losses to help reduce its tax bill. This is known as a tax-loss carry-forward, and it isn't remotely controversial.
The second tax break, though, called the active financing exception, is a whole different kettle of fish. According to Robert Willens, a corporate tax expert, this tax break was first enacted in 1997. It allows companies to avoid paying U.S. taxes on overseas profits -- if those profits were derived by ''actively financing'' some activity or deal. (The rationale is that this is supposed to help ''equal the playing field'' with foreign multinationals that get the same tax breaks from their home countries. Yadda, yadda, yadda.)
The active financing exception was never supposed to be a permanent part of the tax code. Indeed, it still isn't. But every year or two -- after the usual campaign contributions and arm-twisting -- it winds up back in the tax code ''temporarily.'' The Treasury now estimates that it costs the government $5 billion a year.
Is G.E. one of the companies that lobbies for the active financing exception? You bet it is. As Willens nicely puts it, ''They are taking advantage of a loophole they helped create.''
But G.E. has also taken the next obvious step: It has managed, over time, to shift billions of dollars in profits from its U.S. income statement to its overseas income statements. Wouldn't you know it? Most of their profits are also financing related. There is nothing illegal or even unethical about any of this. It's Congress -- the same Congress that is now screaming bloody murder about the deficit -- that has paved the way for G.E.'s tax creativity.
The corporate income tax rate for American corporations is around 35 percent. If you talk to American executives for more than five minutes on the subject, they'll tell you it's too high. Andrew Liveris, the chairman and chief executive of Dow Chemical, claims in his new book, ''Make It In America,'' that the U.S. has the ''second-highest corporate tax rate in the world.'' A lower tax rate, he argues, could help spur a manufacturing revival in America.
And, maybe, just maybe, if American multinationals actually paid 35 percent of their profits in taxes, he might have a case. But it's not just G.E. -- none of them do. Mr. Willens told me that the typical multinational pays about half the stated tax rate. As for G.E., it says that its worldwide tax burden for 2010 was far lower than that: 7.4 percent.
The bonuses should be pretty good this year in the G.E. tax department.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

COMPANY: AGO AG ENERGIE + ANLAGEN (66%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

TICKER: AGY (FRA) (66%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541690 OTHER SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3568 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT, NEC (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



96 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Fed Help Kept Banks Afloat, Until It Didn't

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and JO CRAVEN McGINTY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- During the frenetic months of the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve stretched the limits of its legal authority by lending money to more than 100 banks that subsequently failed.
The loans through the so-called discount window transformed a little-used program for banks that run low on cash into a source of long-term financing for troubled institutions, some of which borrowed regularly from the Fed for more than a year.
The central bank took little risk in making the loans, protecting itself by demanding large amounts of collateral. But propping up failing banks can increase the eventual cleanup costs for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation because it keeps struggling banks afloat, allowing them to get even deeper in debt. It also can clog the arteries of the financial system, tying up money in banks that are no longer making new loans. 
County Bank, the largest bank in Merced County, California, took a $4.8 million loan from the discount window in March 2008 after announcing the first annual loss in its 30-year history, news that prompted depositors to withdraw $52 million.
By the fall of 2008, the bank was borrowing regularly from the Fed, taking more than two dozen loans in amounts that peaked above $60 million. It continued borrowing until the day it failed, taking a final loan for $55 million on Friday, Feb. 6, 2009.
Thomas Hawker, the former chief executive, said that the loans helped keep the bank in business, providing needed cash as deposits dwindled. But he said that it was clear in retrospect that County Bank was dead on its feet the whole time, thanks to its once-lucrative focus on financing construction of new homes in the Central Valley of California.
''I think in most cases it is a lifeline that kind of provides a bridge to survival,'' said Mr. Hawker, who left the bank in 2008. ''In the case here, Merced County was ground zero for everything that could possibly have gone wrong with the economy.''
The discount window is a basic feature of the central bank's original design, intended to mitigate bank runs and other cash squeezes. But access to it historically has been limited to healthy banks with short-term problems.
Those limits moved from custom to law in 1991, when Congress formally restricted the Fed's ability to help failing banks. A Congressional investigation found that more than 300 banks that failed between 1985 and 1991 owed money to the Fed at the time of their failure. Critics said the Fed's lending had increased the cost of those failures.
The central bank was chastened for a generation but in 2007, facing a new banking crisis, the Fed once again started to broaden access to the discount window. It reduced the cost of borrowing and started offering loans for longer terms of up to 30 days.
More than one thousand banks have taken advantage. A review of federal data, including records the Fed released last week, shows that at least 111 of those banks subsequently failed. Eight owed the Fed money on the day they failed, including Washington Mutual, the largest failed bank in American history.
The Fed has said that it complied fully with the law in all of its emergency loans, and that its actions, including lending from the discount window, were intended to limit the impact of the crisis.
Charles Calomiris, a finance professor at Columbia University who has studied discount window lending during previous crises, said the Fed had not released enough information for the public to determine whether some of the recipients were propped up inappropriately and should have been allowed to fail more quickly.
''Do we know whether the Fed did that? No, we don't,'' he said. ''But the Fed has become more politicized than at any point in its history, and I do worry very much that a lot of Fed discount window lending may just be part of a political calculation.''
In some cases the Fed's lending had clear benefits, whether or not the loans meant going beyond the mandate.
The F.D.I.C. almost always seizes banks on Friday evenings, so the new owners have two days before reopening. In some cases the Fed kept banks alive until the next Friday. The Bank of Clark County in Vancouver, Wash., took its first discount window loan on Monday, Jan. 12, 2009. It borrowed $8 million Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, then $14 million on Thursday and Friday. Then the F.D.I.C. closed its doors.
In other cases, the Fed stopped lending to banks as the extent of their financial problems became clear. Alton Gilbert, a former official at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis who wrote a widely cited study of the Fed's discount window lending in the 1980s, said that few banks failed with Fed loans on their books during the recent crisis. The central bank often suspended lending several months before they failed.
Still, some experts said additional scrutiny was warranted for a subset of banks that received sustained support even though they faced clear problems.
The most frequent visitors at the window were three subsidiaries of FBOP, a bank holding company based in Oak Park, Ill.
Park National Bank in Chicago borrowed regularly from April 2008 until the day of its failure in October 2009, taking 129 loans in amounts that peaked at $345 million -- the longest period of sustained support for any bank that failed during the crisis. Park used some of the money to finance the acquisition of assets from other banks, expanding its own balance sheet and potentially increasing the cost of its eventual failure. Bloomberg News first reported the details of the Fed's discount window lending to the company.
Two other failed banks owned by FBOP also took more than 100 loans from the discount window, California National Bank of Los Angeles and Pacific National Bank of San Francisco, although both stopped borrowing several months before failing.
Marvin Goodfriend, a professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University, said that such lending placed the Fed in the inappropriate position of deciding the fate of individual banks, choices that he said should be made by elected officials.
''What I think is the lesson from this is that the Congress needs to clarify the boundaries of independent Fed credit policy,'' Professor Goodfriend said. ''There should be a mechanism so that the Fed doesn't have to make these decisions on behalf of taxpayers.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Borrowing as They Went Down: Many banks that were in trouble and eventually failed were allowed to continue borrowing from the Federal Reserve's discount window. (Source: Federal Reserve) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); HOUSING STARTS (67%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



97 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Moving to a Support Role in Libya

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE and ALAN COWELL; Stephen Castle reported from Brussels and Alan Cowell from London. Rachel Donadio contributed reporting from Rome.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- The United States began to remove its warplanes from front-line missions in Libya on Monday and instead focus on a support role there, a NATO official said. 
The changeover came as diplomatic maneuvering over the Libya crisis quickened with Turkey announcing efforts to secure a cease-fire and Italy saying it was recognizing the rebels seeking to oust Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, only the third country to do so.
The shift in the American role leaves France, Britain and other NATO nations to play a more prominent part in the aerial conflict, Carmen Romero, a NATO spokeswoman, said.
''After Monday the vast majority of strike assets will be provided by non-U.S. allies and partners,'' she said.
The move had been expected two or three days ago but was delayed because poor weather prevented some operations that required American participation.
Monday's change reflects the United States' desire to take a step back from the military operation, although Washington has made it clear that it will continue to provide support when other nations require it, probably including the Awacs surveillance and command-and-control planes.
It coincides with diplomatic moves on several fronts by players directly involved in the conflict and within NATO to loosen Colonel Qaddafi's grasp on power as he faces insurgents based in the eastern city of Benghazi.
Italy, the former colonial power in Libya with close economic ties to the country, said on Monday that it had decided to recognize the rebel council in Benghazi as what Foreign Minister Franco Frattini called its ''sole legitimate interlocutor'' in Libya, joining France and Qatar in formally recognizing the rebels.
At a news conference in Rome Mr. Frattini also said that a suggestion that Colonel Qaddafi might be nudged aside to make way for a transitional regime led by his son Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi was ''not credible.''
He spoke as a Libyan envoy, Deputy Foreign Minister Abdelati Obeidi, pursued an effort in Europe to seek a diplomatic settlement.
Speaking in Rome, a representative of the rebels, Ali al-Essawi, the former Libyan ambassador to India, said that it was unacceptable to replace Colonel Qaddafi with one of his sons.
''There's no way to replace Qaddafi with a small Qaddafi,'' he said in an interview after he met with Mr. Frattini. ''This is the position of the Libyans and the national council,'' he said, referring to the interim rebel administration.
Separately, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy traveled to Tunisia on Monday to try to persuade the authorities there to stem a flow of illegal immigrants whose numbers arriving on the southern Italian island of Lampedusa have greatly increased with North Africa's turmoil.
In Ankara, Reuters reported, Turkey said it was seeking to broker a cease-fire in Libya and expected to hold discussions with both Mr. Obeidi on Monday and a representative of the opposition.
''We will talk and see if there is common basis for a cease-fire,'' a Turkish Foreign Ministry official said. Both sides ''conveyed that they have some opinions about a possible cease-fire,'' the official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); IMMIGRATION (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

PERSON: FRANCO FRATTINI (67%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); ANKARA, TURKEY (73%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (94%); TURKEY (94%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



98 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: To Cut the Deficit, Look to Social Security

BYLINE: By ALICIA H. MUNNELL. 
Alicia H. Munnell, a member of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Bill Clinton, is the director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College.

 BODY:
Chestnut Hill, Mass.
WHILE Washington wrangles over how much can be cut from a sliver of the federal budget -- the 12 percent that makes up nondefense discretionary spending -- responsible politicians from both sides of the aisle know that the real issue is entitlement programs like Social Security.
Solving Social Security's problems would not only reduce the long-term deficit, but also improve the future security of retirees. 
That view might surprise analysts who point out that Social Security has not contributed to the deficit in the past, because it's been financed by payroll taxes, and technically cannot in the future because, by law, it cannot spend money it doesn't have.
But in reality, scheduled Social Security benefits and current payroll taxes are included in long-term deficit projections by the Congressional Budget Office, the Office of Management and Budget and the Government Accountability Office. These projections matter: policymakers, investors and the bond markets use them to gauge the nation's fiscal health. Since a shortfall in Social Security is embedded in these projections, eliminating that shortfall would substantially improve the long-term budget outlook and the nation's creditworthiness.
Restoring balance to Social Security would also make Americans feel more secure about their retirement. Surveys have repeatedly shown that many Americans do not believe that Social Security will be there for them. While such an assessment is wrong -- even without any changes, Social Security payroll taxes could pay 100 percent of benefits for the next 25 years, and 75 percent to 80 percent of benefits for decades thereafter -- anxiety about the program's future leads people to grab benefits as soon as they can. The problem is that benefits claimed at the early retirement age, 62, are 25 percent smaller than at the full retirement age (currently 66) and are likely to be inadequate when retirees have exhausted their other sources of income later in life. Eliminating the Social Security shortfall will, therefore, reduce the misplaced fear that causes Americans to claim benefits early.
The key question is how much of Social Security's financing gap should be closed by cutting benefits versus raising taxes. Some of both will be needed, but slashing benefits is dangerous because retirements are already at risk.
The need for retirement income is increasing as people live longer. Health care costs are soaring and two-thirds of Americans will need some long-term care. At the same time, resources for retirement are diminishing. The gradual rise of Social Security's full retirement age to 67 serves as an across-the-board benefit cut. And employer-sponsored retirement plans, for those lucky enough to have them, are increasingly in the form of 401(k)'s with modest balances rather than defined-benefit pensions.
Simply put, more and more Americans just don't have enough for retirement. The National Retirement Risk Index, which I helped develop, shows that 51 percent of households are at risk of not being able to maintain their pre-retirement living standards after retirement.
Solving Social Security's financing problem is conceptually easy -- it's relatively manageable and dozens of proposals have been evaluated. While experts have put forth various solutions, it seems reasonable to draw on the recent work of the Debt Reduction Task Force, a panel convened by the Bipartisan Policy Center and led by Pete V. Domenici, a Republican who is a former senator from New Mexico, and Alice M. Rivlin, a Democrat who is a former director of both White House and Congressional budget offices.
The task force suggested four major changes: indexing the full retirement age (after it reaches 67) to improvements in longevity; switching to a measure of inflation that grows more slowly than the one now used to calculate Social Security's cost-of-living adjustment; gradually increasing the earnings subject to the payroll tax (and the basis for benefits) to about $180,000 from $106,800 today; and gradually subjecting both employer and employee premiums for group health insurance to payroll and income taxes.
A balanced plan of benefit cuts and tax increases can more than solve the Social Security problem for 75 years. While the Domenici-Rivlin plan is far from perfect -- for example, the change in the cost-of-living adjustment would hurt the oldest of the old -- it can serve as a starting point. Restoring balance to Social Security would make Americans feel more secure, increase national confidence in our finances and set a precedent for bipartisan action. This is not a political game. Someone has to go first and put a proposal on the table.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROSS MacDONALD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); RETIREMENT AGE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (77%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (76%); US 401K PLANS (76%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (76%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (76%); BONDS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



99 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Sbarro, Seeking to Reduce Debt, Files for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By DEALBOOK

 BODY:
Sbarro, the private-equity-owned pizza chain, filed for bankruptcy on Monday as it looked to cut its debt and restructure its balance sheet.
The restructuring, according to a court filing, will allow Sbarro to reduce its debt by $195 million, or more than half. The company will also get a $30 million capital infusion. 
''Sbarro is a strong company with an unsustainable balance sheet,'' the company said in a court filing. ''Sbarro intends to emerge expeditiously from Chapter 11 as a stronger, well capitalized and more competitive company.''
Founded in 1956 as a Italian grocery store in Brooklyn, Sbarro evolved into an Italian restaurant chain, with its first mall location in 1967. Today, the company has 1,045 locations in 42 countries.
In 2007, the company was acquired by MidOcean Partners, a private equity firm, with current and senior management retaining a stake. MidOcean, whose executive board includes a former New York governor, George E. Pataki, owns a number of other consumer brands, including the gym chain L.A. Fitness International and the apparel maker totes Isotoner.
Shortly after the buyout, Sbarro got hit by rising food costs and the global economic crisis. The price of ingredients like cheese and flour surged in 2007 and 2008, just as mall traffic began to fall off during the recession.
''Price increases and cost-cutting measures taken to combat commodity inflation and maintain earnings during this difficult period contributed to challenges with the brand, and performance lagged the rebound inmall traffic beginning in early 2010,'' the company said in its court filing.
To help revitalize the business, MidOcean Partners installed a new management team last year, including appointing one of its managing directors, Nicholas McGrane, as chief executive. Although the financial situation improved somewhat, the changes were not enough, and Sbarro breached a covenant on one of its loans last year.
Since then, the company has been working with its advisers to ''refine their business plan'' in the hopes of improving ''liquidity and overall financial condition.'' Sbarro has also been negotiating with its creditors.
As part of the reorganization plan, MidOceon and another private equity firm, Ares Management, which owns some of Sbarro's debt, are committing $30 million in capital. The company expects to earn $30 million in fiscal 2011, down from roughly $38 million last year.
During the bankruptcy proceedings, Sbarro said its locations would continue to operate and customers would still be able to use their gifts cards and coupons.
Sbarro is being advised by Kirkland & Ellis, Rothschild and PricewaterhouseCoopers.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); FITNESS CENTERS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RECESSION (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); ACQUISITIONS (68%); INFLATION (66%); APPAREL MFG (52%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (56%); ARES MANAGEMENT LLC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



100 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: The Rush to Boutique

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
Hotel experts have all sorts of definitions for boutique hotels. ''Not cookie cutter,'' one said. ''Chic,'' said another. ''100 rooms or less,'' said a third.
But whatever the definition, big hotel chains and smaller boutique brands are planning to open many more of them in cities across the United States and overseas over the next few years.
Here is a sampling of the boutique or, as some refer to them, lifestyle hotels that are in the works. In December, Ian Schrager, an originator of the boutique concept, announced two new brands, as yet unnamed. These follow the collaboration he began three years ago with Marriott International to create the Edition boutique hotel brand. In September, Richard Branson's Virgin Group, which includes the high-end Virgin Limited Edition hotels, announced Virgin Hotels, a new four-star hotel brand that will focus initially on the North American market. 
More recently, the Wyndham Hotel Group signed an agreement with Chatwal Hotels and Resorts to franchise and manage Chatwal's Night and Dream boutique brands, and Sonesta International Hotels announced its own brand, Kept. There is Modo, from the former chief executive of Nylo Hotels; and new boutique spinoffs by Sofitel and Swire Hotels. And John Pritzker, a member of the family that started Hyatt Hotels, who now owns a controlling interest in Joie de Vivre, a California boutique brand, plans to double the brand's 34 hotels and open them across the country.
Although industry experts estimate boutique hotels today represent at most 3 percent of all hotels in the United States, they expect this number to grow significantly. Bjorn Hanson, dean of the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University, said almost a third of all hotels opening in Manhattan this year would be boutique hotels, and as much as 10 percent in other major urban markets. He estimated that they could account for 6 percent of all hotels in the United States, and as much as 10 percent in the largest urban markets, in 10 to 15 years.
One reason for this growth, said Henry H. Harteveldt, travel analyst for Forrester Research, is a reaction by travelers against large hotels that are much the same, no matter the location.
''Everybody pays attention to design,'' Mr. Harteveldt said. ''People like things a little bit different, offbeat. And they make someone who may have a rather mundane life feel hip.''
The plethora of new brands is also a reflection of economic conditions and the state of the real estate market.
Boutique hotel owners do not have to comply with the brand standards -- which, for example, can specify the size and features of guest rooms -- normally required by giant hotel companies like Marriott, Starwood and Intercontinental. Thus, developers can more easily convert an existing structure like an office building into a hotel.
In addition, John J. DePaul, executive vice president of development of Sonesta International, said he expected more opportunities for new boutique hotels as existing hotel owners, still struggling in a slow economy, defaulted with their lenders. ''As defaults continue to swell,'' he said, ''it will be less expensive to convert existing hotels to boutique hotels than building brand new ones.''
Boutique hotels can also charge relatively high room rates, making them attractive to owners, Mr. Hanson said. Travelers, he said, were often willing to pay more to stay in a boutique hotel and ''experience something different.''
Although revenue per available room at boutique and lifestyle hotels fell by about 30 percent from the third quarter of 2008 through the first quarter of 2010, compared with a 20 percent drop for all hotels in the United States, it bounced back by about 10 percent last year, exceeding the 6 percent rise for all hotels, Mr. Hanson said. And he estimated that revenue per available room for these hotels would jump another 12 percent this year.
Offerings from the new boutique brands will vary, and many are still in planning stages.
Mr. Schrager said the less expensive of his new brands would offer ''affordable luxury and cheap chic'' and the more expensive one ''modern luxury.'' The only new boutique project he has announced is the renovation of the former Ambassador East Hotel in Chicago, which will reopen in September as part of his less expensive brand.
Mr. Schrager, who is considering opening his new boutique hotels in major business travel destinations like Chicago, New York, Miami, Los Angeles and London, said he could ''take more chances, more risk'' with them than he did with the Edition hotels that are managed by Marriott.
''Good design is not enough any more,'' he added, especially since business travelers ''will not tolerate bad service. They require functionality.''
How well these new hotels will do remains to be seen.
They face a number of incumbents, which, besides Edition, include Starwood's W brand; Andaz, from Hyatt; Indigo, from Intercontinental; Ascend, from Choice Hotels; Kimpton's Triton, Monaco and Palomar brands; and smaller brands like Thompson, Balazs, Morgans, Nylo, Ace and Gansevoort.
Eva Ziegler, global brand leader for Meridien and W, from Starwood, said boutique hotels that were not affiliated with an industry giant like Starwood or Marriott would be at a disadvantage. They could not, for example, match the loyalty programs or the corporate marketing efforts of the big chains, she said.
''I think the competition will get fiercer and fiercer in the future for hotel branding,'' she said.
Not everyone is as bullish on the boutique sector's prospects as Mr. Hanson. Mr. Harteveldt, for one, predicted that there would be a ''shakeout, with failures, mergers and rationalization within three years,'' adding, ''There's no way all these boutique chains can survive and prosper long term.''
But there is great potential, he said, in markets like China, India and Brazil, where Modo and Chatwal plan to grow.
Meanwhile, companies like Kimpton will continue to cater to travelers, who, Kimpton's chief executive, Michael A. Depatie said, are willing to trade off larger brands' more elaborate loyalty benefits ''for having a great experience.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The rooftop bar and lounge at Ink48, a new boutique hotel at 48th Street and 11th Avenue in Manhattan.
 A room at Ink48 with a view toward the east and New Jersey. Ink48 is a boutique brand of Kimpton Hotels. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); HOTEL CHAINS (92%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MARKETING PLAN (77%); RESORTS (74%); BRANDING (72%); REAL ESTATE (72%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS BUSINESS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); HYATT HOTELS CORP (91%); VIRGIN GROUP LTD (71%); SONESTA INTERNATIONAL HOTELS CORP (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (92%); H (NYSE) (91%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (91%); NAICS483212 INLAND WATER PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4489 WATER TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, NEC (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



101 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: For Butler Fans, a Party, If Not a Celebration

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
INDIANAPOLIS -- They came to chant, dance, sing, stamp and stand for as long as they believed. They raised their arms for jump shots and free throws as if they were sitting behind the basket in Houston and sounded louder than the crowd in the antiseptic domed football stadium.
On the chilliest of April nights, the extended Hoosier basketball family -- adopting little Butler University as its biggest source of pride since Bobby Knight roamed the sideline at Indiana -- got together at Hinkle Fieldhouse for what they hoped would be the hottest and most historic of college basketball nights. 
But one year after the Bulldogs came up a basket short against Duke, they misfired with a shocking and deflating consistency. The second-half gap in talent reflected the difference in size between Butler and Connecticut. There was too much Kemba Walker, Jeremy Lamb and dominance inside.
After raising their voices with the Butler War Song, the fight went out of the Hinkle crowd as Connecticut closed out a 53-41 victory for the national title.
The day had begun with so much hope and an interminable wait. In a steady rain that started before dawn, Butler students lined up four hours before tipoff while self-declared friends of the program drove in from across the Indiana landscape. By game time, Hinkle was jammed from sideline to ceiling with a crowd of about 10,000 for the televised presentation on four giant screens.
Liesl Kasdorf, a senior, waited for her sorority sisters to arrive and also for her parents, who were coming all the way from Pendleton, Ind., more than an hour away, with her 12-year-old sister.
Keeping dry in front of the entrance to the historic redbrick building built in 1928, Kasdorf said her family had become ''huge Butler fans,'' especially her sister, who had already been promised a day off from school Tuesday, win or lose.
Butler's student body of roughly 4,000 was given the same consideration, though classes were held Monday, with attendance far below capacity given the number of students who boarded buses last week and piled into cars to make the 17-hour drive to Houston.
''That's the difference this year,'' said Kasdorf, a communications major. ''Last year, with the Final Four right here in Indianapolis, everyone was outside, music playing, having fun.''
Monday was grayer, less festive, almost somber by comparison, at least until tipoff.
''Last year was more a case of we were happy to be in the championship game,'' Kasdorf said. ''This year, it's, 'OK, we want to win.' ''
Nathan Stratton, 32, of Whiteland, Ind., said he could not remember the last time he wanted something more than a Butler victory. A high school football coach, Stratton was with his 10-year-old daughter, Cora, and was joined later by his wife, who left their 1-year-old son with a baby sitter.
''I can't tell you the joy this team has given us the last couple of years, especially when we've been hit hard by the economy,'' said Stratton, explaining that his wife, a sports photographer, had been laid off from her job and the family had struggled on one income.
He viewed the game as a morality play, citing the contrast of Butler's old-school approach against a Connecticut program always rich in prospects who leave early for the N.B.A.
''These kids may never play much or at all in the N.B.A., but what they've done will help them make a difference somewhere,'' Stratton said. ''And you want them to win so much just to show all these schools with the one-and-done guys that there is another way -- the right way -- to do this.''
Eavesdropping on Stratton was David Martin, 47, of Newcastle, Ind., who mentioned that he had played high school ball in the same sectional tournament as Steve Alford, an Indiana University icon, 30 years ago.
Martin nodded while Stratton fondly recalled the days of growing up in rural Indiana, where the town virtually shut down for the Friday night high school basketball game. Martin had a thought about the most famous of Indiana high school classics -- tiny Milan High School's 1954 state championship.
''You know, the year before Milan won that state title, they actually lost in the final, right here in this building,'' Martin said, noting that ''Hoosiers'' -- the film based on the game and whose climactic title-game scenes were shot at Hinkle -- omitted that detail for dramatic effect.
He was willing to take that often-forgotten detail as a sign that history might repeat itself. But Bobby Plump, who made the decisive shot for Milan in 1954 and later starred for Butler, got on the telephone from his Indianapolis sports bar, Plump's Last Shot, and insisted that Coach Brad Stevens and the Bulldogs were already historic.
''First Indiana team to go back-to-back at the Final Four,'' he said, before laughing off the question of whether Butler could ever replace Milan in Indiana basketball lore.
''Are you kidding?'' he said. ''They're playing on such a larger stage. We were a bunch of naive kids who didn't know what we were doing. What Butler's been trying to do, with all that 24/7 attention and pressure, is so much more difficult, and it's selling everywhere.''
To that end, the traffic inside the Butler bookstore had been bumper-to-bumper, said Janine Frainier, the store's manager. T-shirts and sweatshirts flew off the shelves and customers came from as far away as Michigan.
On line, the orders swamped the store's staff, proving Plump's point that the Hoosier basketball family has extended nationwide.
''Lots of orders from people all over with the same last name,'' Frainier said. ''People named Butler.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, an inspirational message for the team outside Fairview Presbyterian Church on the edge of campus. Right, a Butler fan, part of a crowd of about 10,000 at Hinkle Fieldhouse, in the final minutes of Butler's loss to UConn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMY SANCETTA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 DARRON CUMMINGS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (72%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: BUTLER UNIVERSITY (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



102 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: Louisville Dreaming: Characters Exploring Boundaries

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- The American dream is not just a matter of fancy cars, sweet suburban vistas and, as it is imagined today, the prospect of your own reality television show or legion of Twitter followers. Maybe more bewitching is the simple possibility of escaping into a life other than the one you wake up to in the gray dawn. Surely a country founded on the bright hope of man's infinite potential should allow its citizens the chance to slip into a new identity, a more fulfilling way of being?
The Humana Festival of New American Plays at the Actors Theater here, celebrating its 35th season, is never organized around a specific theme. But almost all of the plays on view this year revolved around characters pushing at the boundaries of their lives, searching for release into a bigger, happier or maybe just different experience. The dovetailing of themes suggested artists engaging in conversation about the sense of disorientation, or reorientation, that years of economic anxiety has engendered. 
Unfortunately the quality of the discourse was pretty spotty. The festival's recent track record under the artistic director Marc Masterson has been uneven, with solid successes like Gina Gionfriddo's ''Becky Shaw'' and ''The Scene'' by Theresa Rebeck far outnumbered by forgettable small-bore dramas. Since the festival was founded, regional theaters across the country have joined the fight for a limited supply of new plays. After 11 years heading the Actors Theater, Mr. Masterson is moving to South Coast Repertory in Southern California, an even more prominent incubator of important work for the stage. He will now be competing with his (as yet unnamed) successor to seek out fresh voices.
The festival's most fully realized play was Jordan Harrison's piquantly funny ''Maple and Vine,'' directed with verve by Anne Kauffman. In this cleverly executed fantasy, a couple of exhausted New Yorkers find themselves seduced by the possibility of leaping off the treadmill and parachuting into a simpler past. Goodbye urban anomie, Starbucks addiction, information overload, short attention spans. Hello picket-fence America circa Ozzie and Harriet.
Katha (Kate Turnbull) is an overworked book editor who recently suffered a miscarriage. A chance meeting in the park with a fedora-wearing fellow opens the door to an alternate universe: a gated community dedicated to recreating the social and cultural milieu of the straitened but structured American 1950s. (When this spooky movement is described as a cult, Katha demurs with a pout, ''It's not a cult, they have nonprofit status'' -- a witty gibe at Scientology.)
''Mad Men'' and Bruce Norris's time-traveling play ''Clybourne Park'' spring to mind, but Mr. Harrison's comic drama entertains on its own darkly playful terms. When Katha and her plastic surgeon husband Ryu (Peter Kim) withdraw into the comforting cocoon of a calmer era, Mr. Harrison follows through on his conceit with impressive ingenuity.
Only when Katha, now indoctrinated into the community's obsession with ''authenticity,'' begins insisting that her Asian-American husband be treated with a little less tolerance does Mr. Harrison allow the rules of the game to supersede emotional truth. Ms. Kauffman's crisp production features persuasive performances from all the actors, including Paul Niebanck and Jeanine Serralles as the picture-perfect 1950s couple whose lives are founded on -- perhaps enriched by? -- repression and secrets, and Jesse Pennington as this quasi-Eden's equivalent of a subversive snake.
The allure of a more satisfying lifestyle comes between a pair of siblings in Molly Smith Metzler's ''Elemeno Pea'' (try saying it aloud), a crowd-pleaser that starts out with a gangbusters scene between the older Devon (Cassie Beck), snarky, a little dumpy and just scraping by, and her sleek younger sister Simone (Kimberly Parker Green), who has snared a lucrative job as the ''executive assistant'' to the wife of a tycoon.
Simone has come to believe the ritzy accouterments of the job are hers by right. Her clear relish of the life she's living semi-vicariously makes her sister uneasy, and Ms. Metzler stirs up the sororal discord between them with her own relish in the play's sensationally funny first half-hour. The writing is so smart and sharp that I hoped the play would, like David Lindsay-Abaire's ''Good People,'' dig more deeply into the intimate truths of the widening class divide in America.
Unfortunately, once Simone's boss, the self-dramatizing egoist Michaela (Sara Surrey), arrives on the scene, the play abjures subtlety for cartoonish mockery. Ms. Metzler settles too easily for blunt caricature in depicting Simone as a tantrum-throwing narcissist without a shred of conscience or even manners. It doesn't help that Ms. Surrey, under the increasingly broad direction of Davis McCallum, storms around like Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford in ''Mommie Dearest,'' shredding the chrysanthemums of an offending color.
In ''Edith Can Shoot Things and Hit Them'' by A. Rey Pamatmat, the 12-year-old title character and her 16-year-old brother make believe that they're grown-ups in the absence of the real thing, creating an emotional fortress of the farm they inhabit more or less alone. Little Edith (Teresa Avia Lim) dreams of a world where she has superpowers. A crack shot with the BB gun, she strikes threatening poses when her brother, Kenny (John Norman Schneider), begins spending more time with his boyfriend, the nerdy Benji (Cory Michael Smith).
''Edith'' has only a few notes to play, and it plays them with the determination of a Tiger Mom-ed kid plonking away at the piano: the pathos of abandoned children rearing themselves; Kenny and Benji's naughty-cute exploration of their sexuality; Edith's combination of courage beyond her years and wide-eyed innocence. All began to cloy well before the conclusion of this egregiously long work, directed by May Adrales.
Patience also went mostly unrewarded at ''Bob,'' by Peter Sinn Nachtrieb, an ambitious epic about the seductions and limitations of the American ideal of eminence. Jeffrey Binder portrays the title character from unhappy birth -- abandoned in a White Castle bathroom -- through questing youth and into middle-aged disillusion. Four other performers act as chorus and the key players in Bob's life whom this Candide-like figure keeps meeting in the most unlikely circumstances as he crisscrosses the country in his quest to become ''a great great man.''
With its expansive scope and seasoning of references to a kaleidoscopic array of American achievers -- from Michael Jordan to Hillary Clinton to the suddenly trendy Mormon leader Joseph Smith -- ''Bob'' promises to say a lot more about the pitfalls of striving for success than it ultimately delivers. Mr. Nachtrieb has a flair for quirky dialogue (''Every part of my past hurts so I've turned to God and the road''), but he piles whimsy on whimsy so relentlessly that the play disintegrates beneath its burden of eccentricity.
The most formally inventive play on view at the festival was also the most unsatisfying. ''A Devil at Noon,'' written by Anne Washburn (''The Internationalist,'' seen at the Vineyard Theater) and directed by Steve Cosson of the Civilians, is an almost wholly opaque sci-fi fantasy apparently taking place in the psyche of a novelist in Berkeley, Calif. Joseph Adams, looking appealingly like a Doonesbury character come to life, plays the writer who finds himself embroiled in an affair with a young woman who may actually be a character in his next book. Meanwhile, in some alternate reality -- oh, never mind. None of the play's layers held the attention enough to justify Ms. Washburn's aggressive inscrutability.
Any randomly selected half-dozen new plays produced in America today seem likely to include something from the astoundingly prolific Adam Rapp, whose ''Hallway Trilogy'' recently concluded its run in New York. Mr. Rapp's contribution to this year's Humana Festival, ''The Edge of Our Bodies,'' represents this writer at his most minimalist. It's a carefully sculptured solo play in which the talented Catherine Combs portrays a 16-year-old Connecticut boarding school student recounting the day she skipped school to take the train into Manhattan to inform her older boyfriend that she was pregnant.
Mr. Rapp is also a novelist, and his gift for striking imagery shimmers throughout this story of a young woman's sudden journey into adulthood: ''It's as if I've acquired a permanent fishhook in my lip,'' Bernadette says after coolly describing her abortion, ''and there are those with fishhooks and those without.'' But I couldn't help feeling that, despite Mr. Rapp's own fine direction, ''The Edge of Our Bodies'' is more a slab of elegant prose being read from the stage than a dramatized work.
Emerging from Mr. Rapp's play on Sunday afternoon, a little dazed after seeing six mostly disappointing plays over the weekend, I was greeted by a sight more strange and magical than anything I'd seen yet: a half-dozen elephants walking calmly down Main Street. Having been immersed in tales of characters seeking out alternate lives, I had a fleeting fantasy of running away to the circus.
Then I noticed how exhausted the elephants looked as their great limbs lumbered past a cordon of police cars. They had obviously had a taxing weekend, too, and didn't even have the prospect of a nice bourbon in their future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Catherine Combs as Bernadette in ''The Edge of Our Bodies,'' by Adam Rapp. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN SIMONS)
Top, Jeanine Serralles, left, as Ellen, and Kate Turnbull as Katha in ''Maple and Vine,'' by Jordan Harrison. Above, Jeffrey Binder and Aysan Celik in ''Bob,'' by Peter Sinn Nachtrieb. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL BROSILOW
 ALAN SIMONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); SCIENTOLOGISTS & SCIENTOLOGY (60%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (94%) KENTUCKY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



103 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: A Growing Population, And Target, for Marketers

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
IT has been said that in America, a minority group has not truly arrived until it has been marketed to. That was true for African-Americans, gay men and lesbians and, most recently, consumers who speak Spanish.
It took time for many advertisers to recognize the growing economic power of Hispanic America, but the results of the 2000 census helped to persuade the laggards. And the data now being released from the 2010 census are underlining those convictions.
Estimates are that the Hispanic population will exceed 50 million, 16.3 percent of the country's total.. Also according to those estimates, Hispanics accounted for more than half of the population growth in the United States over the last decade as their ranks increased 43 percent from the 2000 census. 
''For us, Hispanic consumers are a very, very important target,'' said Marc Speichert, chief marketing officer at L'Oreal USA in New York, part of the giant cosmetics, fragrance and beauty products company L'Oreal.
''We see it as a growth opportunity for the future,'' he added, ''and are increasing the spending'' for ads in Spanish.
A case in point is a new initiative for which L'Oreal USA is joining forces with the Telemundo Communications Group, part of NBCUniversal, which is controlled by the Comcast Corporation.
L'Oreal USA brands like Garnier, L'Oreal Paris, Matrix and Maybelline New York are sponsors of Club de Noveleras, the first official club for fans of the Telemundo broadcast network's programming of telenovelas -- the popular serialized dramas that run in weeks-long blocks in prime time, Mondays through Fridays.
Telenovelas, also called novelas, are replete with over-the-top plot devices, like evil twins, amnesia and manly mustachioed millionaires on horseback. (''Noveleras'' means ''novela fans.'') Among recent Telemundo telenovelas are ''El Clon'' (''The Clone'') and ''La Reina del Sur'' (''The Queen of the South'').
The introduction of the Web site clubdenoveleras.com represents the national start of the club, which had previously been active with events in local Telemundo markets that enabled fans to meet stars of shows.
The Web site is the result of a collaboration among L'Oreal USA, Telemundo and the New York office of Moxie, which is the digital agency of record for L'Oreal USA. There is also a mobile version of the Web site. The content of clubdenoveleras.com, most of it entirely in Spanish, includes video clips, photographs, articles and a beauty blog.
Visitors can also interact with other telenovela fans as well as join a loyalty program that gives out points for activities like watching videos and clicking on the ads on the site. The points can be redeemed for prizes like autographed photos of novela stars and L'Oreal USA beauty products.
The partnership between L'Oreal USA and Telemundo is among several efforts from Telemundo, which competes fiercely against the market leader, Univision Communications.
For instance, Telemundo signed licensing agreements last year with manufacturers of products like jewelry and clothing and of home decor merchandise, which are sold to shoppers as well as integrated into episodes of telenovelas.
The goal of introducing the Web site is ''to go beyond events'' in the local markets, said Jacqueline Hernandez, chief operating officer at the New York office of the Telemundo Communications Group, and offer telenovela aficionados something that ''can go 365 days, 24/7.''
''We're creating a community,'' she added, that will ''turn viewership into a relationship.''
Telemundo is ''asking our consumers to lean in,'' Ms. Hernandez says, by visiting the site, becoming a member and connecting with other members, along with giving them the option ''whenever they comment to link to Facebook and Twitter, so their friends in those universes can start interacting and engaging.'' ''It's novela fantasy league,'' she added.
Ms. Hernandez said that she, too, had become a member of the Web site, signing up under the screen name Juacqunia.
According to Kantar Media, a unit of WPP, L'Oreal spent $9.6 million to advertise with Telemundo in 2008, $7.6 million in 2009 and $11.1 million last year.
The financial terms of the Web site partnership are not being disclosed. The agreement is for a year, after which time L'Oreal USA and Telemundo will assess how clubdenoveleras.com has done.
''We spent a lot of time defining what success would look like,'' Mr. Speichert said, among them the number of fans who become subscribers.
L'Oreal USA is also discussing with Telemundo the possibility of integrating products into the telenovelas and other programs on the network, he added.
According to statistics gathered by Moxie, which is part of the Zenith Media Services of the Publicis Groupe, Hispanic users of the Internet, particularly those who speak mostly Spanish or are bilingual, are more involved with online video and social networks than the overall population. They also rely on mobile devices for information about potential purchases more than non-Hispanic shoppers, the data indicate.
The Web site is intended as ''kind of a hub for all things socially connected to these shows,'' said Joel Lunenfeld, chief executive at Moxie, based in the Atlanta headquarters.
''We're learning what fans opting in like,'' Mr. Lunenfeld said, ''and we can see trends in real time.''
Also, ''we're creating content as a brand,'' he added.
One example is the beauty blog, called Nuestro Blog (Our Blog), which is being written by Johanna Torres, a former editor in chief of Siempre Mujer (Always a Woman), a magazine aimed at Spanish-speaking readers.
The Web site is being advertised in multiple outlets that are part of NBCUniversal, in what is known as cross-promotion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: L'Oreal USA and Telemundo have worked together to build Club de Noveleras, a national club and Web site devoted to fans of Telemundo's telenovelas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CENSUS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); WEB SITES (84%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); COSMETICS (77%); LOYALTY MARKETING (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (68%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%)

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (95%); L'OREAL USA INC (83%); COMCAST CORP (82%)

TICKER: OR (PAR) (95%); OR (BIT) (95%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (82%); CCV (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



104 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1771 words

HEADLINE: Multitude Of Species Face Threat Of Warming

BYLINE: By CARL ZIMMER

 BODY:
Over the past 540 million years, life on Earth has passed through five great mass extinctions. In each of those catastrophes, an estimated 75 percent or more of all species disappeared in a few million years or less.
For decades, scientists have warned that humans may be ushering in a sixth mass extinction, and recently a group of scientists at the University of California, Berkeley, tested the hypothesis. They applied new statistical methods to a new generation of fossil databases. As they reported last month in the journal Nature, the current rate of extinctions is far above normal. If endangered species continue to disappear, we will indeed experience a sixth extinction, over just the next few centuries or millennia.
The Berkeley scientists warn that their new study may actually grossly underestimate how many species could disappear. So far, humans have pushed species toward extinctions through means like hunting, overfishing and deforestation. Global warming, on the other hand, is only starting to make itself felt in the natural world. Many scientists expect that as the planet's temperature rises, global warming could add even more devastation. ''The current rate and magnitude of climate change are faster and more severe than many species have experienced in their evolutionary history,'' said Anthony Barnosky, the lead author of the Nature study. 
But equally as strong as the conclusion that global warming can push extinctions is the difficulty in linking the fate of any single species to climate. Policy makers would like to get a better idea of exactly what to expect -- how many species will risk extinction, and which ones are most likely to wink out of existence. But scientists who study the impact of global warming on biodiversity are pushing back against the pressure for detailed forecasts. While it's clear that global warming's impact could potentially be huge, scientists are warning that it's still impossible to provide fine-grained predictions.
''We need to stand firm about the real complexity of biological systems and not let policy makers push us into simplistic answers,'' said Camille Parmesan, a biologist at the University of Texas. She and others studying climate's effects on biodiversity are calling for conservation measures that don't rely on impossible precision.
Dr. Parmesan herself has gathered some of the most compelling evidence that global warming is already leaving its mark on nature. In 2003, she and Gary Yohe, an economist at Wesleyan University, analyzed records of the geographical ranges of more than 1,700 species of plants and animals. They found that their ranges were moving, on average, 3.8 miles per decade toward the poles. Animals and plants were also moving up mountain slopes.
These were the sorts of changes you'd expect from global warming. The warmer edges of a range might become too hot for a species to survive, while the cooler edge becomes more suitable. What's more, only worldwide climate change could explain the entire pattern. ''Because it's happening consistently on a global scale, we can link it to greenhouse gases changes,'' Dr. Parmesan said.
Dr. Parmesan and her colleagues have continued to expand their database since then. But other researchers have been moving in the opposite direction, seeking to attribute changes in individual species to climate change. Last year, for example, Michael Kearney of the University of Melbourne and his colleagues published a study on the common brown butterfly of Australia. From 1941 to 2005, adult butterflies had been emerging from their pupae 1.5 days earlier per decade around Melbourne.
To see if the brown butterfly is actually responding to climate change, Dr. Kearney and his colleagues first analyzed historical temperature records in Melbourne. Temperatures have gradually risen over the past 60 years. Computer models indicate that natural climate cycles can explain only a small part of the change.
The scientists then observed how temperature affects how brown butterflies develop. The warmer the temperature, the faster the butterflies emerged from their pupae. Dr. Kearney and his colleagues used those results to build a mathematical model to predict how long the butterflies would develop at any given temperature. They determined that Melbourne's local warming should have led to the butterflies emerging 1.5 days earlier per decade -- exactly what the butterflies are, in fact, doing.
In the journal Nature Climate Change, Dr. Parmesan and her colleagues argue that trying to attribute specific biological changes to global warming is the wrong way to go. While the global fingerprint of climate change may be clear, the picture can get blurry in individual species. ''When you go to the local level, the outcome of climate change on one particular species is not dependent just on what climate change is doing,'' said Dr. Parmesan.
In Europe, for example, the map butterfly has expanded its range at both its northern and its southern edge. Global warming probably has something to do with its northern expansion. But the butterflies are also benefiting from the mowing of roadsides, which allows more nettle plants to grow. Because map butterflies feed on nettles, they're able to survive across a broader range of Europe.
A number of experts applaud the commentary from Dr. Parmesan and her colleagues. ''I think they really hit the nail on the head,'' said Richard Pearson, the director of biodiversity informatics research at the American Museum of Natural History. ''Biologists shouldn't get drawn heavily into the attribution debate.''
But some researchers counter that such studies can be worthwhile cases where global warming's impact on an individual species is clear. ''The fact that the task may simply be too challenging in most cases does not mean that it will be impossible or a waste of effort in some particular cases,'' said Daithi Stone, a climate scientist at the University of Cape Town in South Africa.
Tracking the effects of climate change on species today can help show how nature may respond to it in decades to come. And many scientists think that the future looks grim. As temperatures rise, many species may not be able to shift their ranges to stay in a comfortable environment. Instead, their ranges may shrink, pushing them toward extinction.
Over the past decade, Dr. Pearson and other researchers have developed models to predict these future range shifts. They typically calculate the ''climate envelope'' in which species live today, and then use global warming projections to find where their climate envelopes will be in the future.
These models first came to prominence in 2004, when an international team of scientists published a study of more than a thousand species. They estimated that 15 percent to 37 percent of all species could become ''committed to extinction'' by 2050, thanks to climate change.
''It was a big splash for the field,'' recalled Dr. Pearson. But in his new book, ''Driven to Extinction,'' Dr. Pearson recounts how he cringed to see the research boiled down to simple, stark headlines that said a million species were doomed.
''Biodiversity is under severe threat from climate change, but we need to be careful that we don't give a false impression of what our confidence is,'' said Dr. Pearson. ''We have to give a nuanced sense of what we do know and what we can say with confidence.''
Seven years after the million-species headlines, Dr. Pearson says that extinction models still have a long way to go. ''We've made some incremental improvements, but I don't think they're hugely better,'' he said.
''It's been a very powerful tool, but my concern is that it's very weak on biology,'' said Georgina Mace of Imperial College London. In the latest issue of Science, she and her colleagues use the fossil record to demonstrate how seemingly similar species can respond in different ways to climate change.
When the planet warmed at the end of the ice age 11,000 years ago, for example, the change was too much for Irish elk, which became extinct. Moose, on the other hand, have survived. Some moose populations stayed put; other populations shifted to more suitable places.
Dr. Mace and her colleagues call for new models that can assess the sensitivity of species to climate, as well as their ability to adapt. In some cases, that adaptation may be evolution. Species may become better able to tolerate warmer temperatures or a change in rainfall. In other cases, animals may adapt by changing their behavior.
Polar bears, for example, are having a harder time hunting seals because of melting sea ice. ''They don't say, we can't eat seals anymore, so we're just going to starve,'' Dr. Pearson said. Instead, some bears are getting more food on land, raiding goose nests for their eggs.
While this switch may slow the decline of polar bears, it's not great news for the geese. Dr. Pearson notes that all the influences that species have on one another will also determine how climate change affects them. ''Predicting how communities will respond is really tricky,'' he said.
Dr. Mace argues that a fuller accounting of how species cope with climate could let scientists revise their estimate for how many species could become extinct. ''I think it could be a lot worse for some groups of species, and not as bad for others,'' she said.
Humans add even more complexity to the forecast. Cities and farms now block the path for many species that might otherwise be able to spread to more suitable habitats, for example. Dr. Parmesan thinks much more research should go into the interactions of global warming and other human impacts. Scientists in Australia have found that coral reefs are more resilient against global warming, for example, if they're protected from overfishing. The warming oceans stimulate the growth of deadly algae on the reefs. But grazing fish can keep the algae in check.
Such research will become the basis for decisions about which species to help, and how. Dr. Mace believes that some especially vulnerable species may need to be moved to new habitats in order to survive. Dr. Parmesan thinks that reducing other pressures, like overfishing, will make species more resilient to climate change. ''We know that climate change wouldn't be such a big problem if systems weren't already stressed,'' Dr. Parmesan said. ''We really need to focus on reducing these other stressors.''
Dr. Pearson, on the other hand, argues for setting aside more land in parks and reserves. More space will help keep species ranges large even if those ranges shift.
''We need to give nature the opportunity to respond,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HAVING TO ADJUST: Butterflies are emerging from their pupae faster. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SUNNUCKS)(D1)
 NO GOOD NEWS FOR GEESE: Polar bears are having a harder time hunting seals because of melting sea ice. Instead, some bears are getting more food on land, raiding goose nests for eggs, above. Such tactics may slow the bears' decline. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOUKE PROP)(D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); BIODIVERSITY (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); GEOGRAPHY (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); MILLENNIUM (74%); DEFORESTATION (73%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); MOUNTAINS (60%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) EARTH (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



105 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Claremont Prep Is Sold to For-Profit Firm

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Claremont Preparatory School, a six-year-old institution in Lower Manhattan that has had difficulty fulfilling its ambitions, is being sold to a private-equity-backed firm, in a sign of growing investor interest in private schools in New York City.
The sale to the firm, Meritas, which is owned by Sterling Partners, illustrates the growing force of profit-seeking companies in private education, a development loaded with potential and risks. Private equity firms are as well known for their top-notch management teams as for their cost-cutting mandates, which have been widely tested in the world of business but are relatively new to the field of elementary and secondary education. 
Michael Koffler, an entrepreneur born in Flushing, Queens, opened Claremont at 41 Broad Street in 2005 with 54 students in kindergarten through fifth grade. It was meant to capitalize on the outsize growth of families downtown, and was one of several for-profit schools to open in recent years in New York.
Claremont had something few Manhattan schools have: expansive and modern facilities. Last fall, Mr. Koffler opened Claremont's upper school on Broadway, a $35 million project, parts of which look more like the Museum of Modern Art than a high school.
But aggressive projections were stymied by the financial crisis and a lack of stability parents saw in the school. Its goal was to have 1,000 students by 2007, but today it has a total of just 522 using its 325,000 square feet of pristine facilities. Leadership has been inconsistent, with four heads in six years.
Last year, Mr. Koffler concerned some parents by firing the headmaster shortly after the parents had signed contracts committing to another year, leaving them little choice but to keep their children in the school. Attrition was 20 percent in 2010.
Mr. Koffler, who did not disclose the price paid for the school, said he was selling because he wanted Claremont to be part of an international family of schools. ''I have mixed emotions, but the real issue is what's the right thing to do for the long-term future of the youngsters and their families,'' he said.
He declined to say whether he had made or lost money on Claremont. His company, Metschools, still owns several preschools and special education schools in the city.
Rumors had been swirling for months that the school would be sold. The deadline for committing to the next school year has passed, but parents can change their minds until June 1 and get back 75 percent of their $7,500 deposits. Tuition for next year is $34,650.
The faculty and parents were notified of the sale on Monday; some parents wondered what impact it would have on the school.
One parent said the timing was suspect. ''The school has been calling and asking for the deposit,'' said the parent, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, for fear of hurting her child's chances at other schools.
''It's a relief in a sense,'' she added. ''The school was already for-profit but this is a for-profit school with resources.''
Mac Gamse, the chief executive of Meritas, said it would not make any significant changes at the start. But, he said, Meritas would immediately get to work creating a more ''cohesive curriculum'' and improving the school's guidance counseling.
The Meritas management team will hold group meetings with parents starting on Tuesday; it will also meet privately with parents who choose individual discussions.
Private equity firms manage money for large investors like endowments and pension funds, and seek profits by buying companies they believe are undervalued, putting in new management, cutting costs and trying to increase revenue before reselling them or offering them to the public in a stock sale.
Mr. Gamse said that Sterling's investors would naturally want to see a return, and that while Meritas made money at each of the other nine schools it owns across the globe, it did not build value by cutting costs. ''Parents want the reputation of their schools to grow,'' he said. ''As that happens, the value of the school grows.''
Mr. Gamse said growth at Claremont, like the other Meritas schools, would be ''thoughtful.'' At one of its schools, North Broward in Coconut Creek, Fla., Meritas consolidated two campuses, shrinking enrollment to 1,400, from 1,800. At the Village School in Houston, enrollment has grown 29 percent in four years. At the College du Leman in Switzerland, it has grown about 8 percent since 2006.
Meritas has sold two schools, which Mr. Gamse said were too small to fit their model. ''Something magic happens between 1,000 and 1,500 in terms of what you can deliver in terms of services and programs to kids,'' he said.
Other private equity firms have jumped into the private school market, where demand for seats runs far ahead of supply, particularly in Manhattan. But the high cost of real estate has made it hard for anyone but deep-pocketed investors to open new schools.
According to one study, the number of school-age children in Manhattan, from Battery Park City to 72nd Street, whose families earned over $500,000 a year soared to 15,700 in 2010 from 4,300 a decade earlier. But private schools have added only 400 seats in the same period, said Chris Whittle, the chief executive of Avenues: The World School, a $75 million, private-equity-backed school that will open in September 2012 in Chelsea.
''The result is an alarming shortage of seats in good schools,'' Mr. Whittle said at an information session for parents last week.
The World Class Learning Academy, another private-equity-backed school, is set to open in September with an elementary school on East Second Street, and plans to add a middle and high school later.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mac Gamse, the chief executive of Meritas, which bought Claremont Preparatory. He says that Meritas will develop a more ''cohesive curriculum'' but that no significant changes will be made. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



106 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Calculating, Shouting and Then Choosing a College

BYLINE: By AVERY DiUBALDO. 
Avery DiUbaldo, an aspiring acting student, is one of six seniors at Cherry Creek High School in Denver who have been blogging about their college searches for The Choice, The Times's admissions blog. His most recent submission was written as the last of the nation's universities notified applicants of their decisions late last week. Other posts by Mr. DiUbaldo and his classmates: nytimes.com/thechoice

 BODY:
About a year ago, there was a girl in my Spanish class who was a foreign exchange student from Santiago, Chile. She gave a brief PowerPoint presentation about her life back home, replete with pictures of mountain ranges and colonial architecture. During the Q. and A. session, one student asked, ''How much is a year of college tuition there?''
''About $3,000,'' she estimated. The class laughed. ''What?'' she asked, bewildered. ''Is it less expensive here?'' 
I want to move to Chile.
This past month, as envelopes (big and small) have rolled into my mailbox from colleges across the country, the thought of money has lingered behind every acceptance.
How much do we have? How much have we saved? How can we make more? Dinner table conversation has skirted around the issue, only occasionally addressing it outright.
''I got into Ithaca today,'' I mentioned over chowder one night, before adding, ''I hear the illegal arms trade has been doing quite well lately.'' It was just a suggestion.
In terms of the purely academic applications I submitted, I've been rejected by only Northwestern and Yale. But the list of ''true'' acceptances narrows at the level of acting programs. N.Y.U., Emerson College, the University of Miami, the University of Michigan and Ithaca have all offered me admission to their selective acting schools, apparently satisfied with my performance at their auditions in February.
The University of Southern California invited me only into its bachelor's program, ''regretfully informing'' me that my first choice, the bachelor of fine arts program, didn't think I was a good fit. Syracuse, one of my top choices, had a similar message, congratulating me on my acceptance into its geography program -- a bit of a punch in the kidneys after the initial thrill of seeing ''Congratulations!'' on the front of the envelope.
Most schools were culled from my list immediately. Emerson was out -- too artsy. Ithaca was jettisoned as well, a victim of its location and unpleasant audition process. N.Y.U.'s program was simply too large.
Michigan, at first the front-runner in my thinking for its wonderful program and top-notch academics, took a step back. With less than $5,000 in aid, its bill was far higher than Miami's. Could my family afford the astronomical price of $44,000 a year?
''We may have to cut back,'' my mother warned me, ''but it won't be too much of a burden.'' We've saved enough to safely avoid the sort of Dickensian poverty I had once associated with high-cost colleges (''Please, sir, can I have some more merit aid?''), but things could get rocky in the event of some sort of nationwide economic collapse. Fortunately, things like that never happen in this country.
My father, always the engineer, proposed the creation of a matrix with point values for various college characteristics as a means of quantitatively helping us make a decision. My longstanding hatred of spreadsheets did away with that method, but the idea of ''weighing the options'' remained a theme in our fervent discussions.
After much shouting, apologizing for the shouting, deliberating, then shouting again, we chose the University of Michigan. The possibility of a double major at Michigan, along with a stellar program and liberal arts education, was too much to resist, even taking the higher price tag into account. After going over the budget a few times, my parents concluded that, at current spending and earning rates, they will still be in the black while I'm at Michigan, and the financial go-ahead was given.
My enrollment deposit is in the mail -- the decision is made. Once September rolls around, I'll be spending my next four years as a Wolverine, learning ''the craft'' (and hopefully a few other crafts along with it). Until then, I'll be plenty occupied trying to explain to my relatives that I'm not going to school in Detroit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The cost of college has been on Avery DiUbaldo's mind. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); MOUNTAINS (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (73%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); FLORIDA, USA (54%) CHILE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



107 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Union-Bashing, Now in Ohio

 BODY:
This is Ohio's new concept of how to deal fairly with its public employees: Make them an offer, and if they don't accept it, impose it anyway. There will be no appeal or arbitration. And unions will no longer be able to negotiate their health-care benefits or require the payment of dues from members. 
The bill containing these provisions was signed into law last week by Gov. John Kasich, another of the Republicans who has misinterpreted his election last year as a mandate to try to demolish union rights.
The best-known fight over public unions was in Wisconsin, where a law ending their collective-bargaining rights has been temporarily stopped by a court order. But, as Steven Greenhouse reported in The Times, the Ohio law is actually much tougher.
It cuts the negotiating rights of police officers and firefighters, not just non-uniformed employees, and it allows cities and school boards to simply impose their final bargaining offer on workers if they cannot reach a negotiated agreement. Under those circumstances, it is hard to imagine why any city would even bother negotiating, and that, in fact, seems to be the point.
With the efficiency of a bulldozer, similar bills are now being proposed or enacted in nearly a dozen states. In Oklahoma, a State Senate committee has approved a bill to remove the collective-bargaining rights for workers in the state's 13 largest cities. In Florida, where collective bargaining is protected by the State Constitution, lawmakers are pushing through bills that would limit unions' ability to collect dues and make political contributions.
In Maine, where Gov. Paul LePage was so contemptuous of labor that he ordered the removal of murals depicting workers from a state building, Republicans are even supporting a loosening of child labor restrictions, eliminating the maximum number of hours that minors can work on school days.
Supporters of these measures say they are acting out of concern for their state's budget. There is little doubt that the real goal is to weaken unions and their ability to back Democratic candidates. The Associated Press reported that a Florida legislative analysis found the bills would have virtually no impact on state and local budgets. But it said they would be effective in one regard: making unions ''likely to have more difficulty collecting dues and funds from employees for political purposes.''
The sponsors of these measures seem to think that with no reason to negotiate and no ability to raise funds, public-sector unions would simply fade away. As much as the unions may struggle with these new shackles, their members -- and their motivation -- are not going away.
There are already active recall petitions for Republican legislators in Wisconsin, and Ohio unionists are gearing up for a referendum to overturn their state's new law. Democratic organizers are finding voters in middle-class districts aghast at the damage to economic rights caused by the new crop of Republicans. It may turn out that the best way to revive the ailing labor movement is by trying to chop it down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CHILD LABOR (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); LITIGATION (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PETITIONS (76%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); REFERENDUMS (75%); BUDGETS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (70%); APPROVALS (67%)

PERSON: JOHN KASICH (58%); PAUL LEPAGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



108 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Unions Rally, Remembering Rights Leader

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Labor unions and civil rights groups held hundreds of rallies and teach-ins on Monday to defend collective bargaining and to tie it to the cause the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was fighting for in the days before his death exactly 43 years ago. 
The sponsors of the ''We Are One'' rallies, held in all 50 states, repeatedly noted that when Dr. King was assassinated in Memphis on April 4, 1968, he was planning to march with 1,300 striking sanitation workers.
The rallies and 175 teach-ins were organized largely to protest the Republican-led efforts in Wisconsin and Ohio to curb bargaining for public employees. The rallies sought to build on the union protests in those states and to warn labor's adversaries in state capitals and Washington that unions remain an important force. The rallies' sponsors also said they wanted to protest federal and state budget cuts that they said were hurting the most vulnerable Americans.
''What we are witnessing is nothing but an ideological assault on Dr. King's vision for a more economically just nation,'' said Wade Henderson, president of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights.
Larry Cohen, president of the Communications Workers of America, said several million workers were going to stop business as usual at work or after work to join vigils, community rallies or marches at statehouses.
''We're putting all employers and all elected officials on notice that we're mobilizing as we haven't in decades,'' Mr. Cohen said.
Wisconsin and Ohio have enacted legislation to severely limit collective bargaining for public-sector workers, saying that was needed to help balance their budgets and rein in what they said were overly generous benefits. Richard Trumka, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, said, ''The immense activity this week is a direct result of the backlash provoked by overreaching governors and legislators.''
On Monday, several thousand labor supporters rallied in the rain in Memphis, many carrying ''I Am a Man'' placards like those the sanitation strikers carried in 1968. In Madison, Wis., a ''Memphis to Madison Rally'' ended with a candlelight vigil.
Online Correction: April 4, 2011, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of the president of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. He is Wade Henderson, not Wayne.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); BUDGETS (88%); STRIKES (79%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (67%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



109 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Moment Of Truth

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
It was a season of fiscal perestroika. Last fall, the Simpson-Bowles deficit commission released a bold report on how to avoid an economic catastrophe. For a few weeks, the think tanks and government offices were alive with proposals to reduce debt and reform entitlements, the tax code and just about every other government program.
The mood did not last. The polls suggested that voters were still unwilling to accept tax increases or benefit cuts. Smart Washington insiders like Mitch McConnell and President Obama decided that any party that actually tried to implement these ideas would be committing political suicide. The president walked away from the Simpson-Bowles package. Far from addressing the fiscal problems, the president's budget would double the nation's debt over the next decade, according to the Congressional Budget Office. 
But the forces of reform have not been entirely silenced. Over the past few weeks, a number of groups, including the ex-chairmen of the Council of Economic Advisers and 64 prominent budget experts, have issued letters arguing that the debt situation is so dire that doing nothing is not a survivable option. What they lacked was courageous political leadership -- a powerful elected official willing to issue a proposal, willing to take a stand, willing to face the political perils.
The country lacked that leadership until today. Today, Paul Ryan, the Republican chairman of the House Budget Committee, is scheduled to release the most comprehensive and most courageous budget reform proposal any of us have seen in our lifetimes. Ryan is expected to leap into the vacuum left by the president's passivity. The Ryan budget will not be enacted this year, but it will immediately reframe the domestic policy debate.
His proposal will set the standard of seriousness for anybody who wants to play in this discussion. It will become the 2012 Republican platform, no matter who is the nominee. Any candidate hoping to win that nomination will have to be able to talk about government programs with this degree of specificity, so it will improve the G.O.P. primary race.
The Ryan proposal will help settle the fight over the government shutdown and the 2011 budget because it will remind everybody that the real argument is not about cutting a few billion here or there. It is about the underlying architecture of domestic programs in 2012 and beyond.
The Ryan budget will put all future arguments in the proper context: The current welfare state is simply unsustainable and anybody who is serious, on left or right, has to have a new vision of the social contract.
The initial coverage will talk about Ryan's top number -- the cuts of more than $4 trillion over the next decade. But the important thing is the way Ryan would reform programs. He would reform the tax code along the Simpson-Bowles lines, but without the tax increases. (It's amazing that a budget chairman could include tax policy in his proposal, since it's normally under the purview of the Ways and Means Committee.)
The Ryan budget doesn't touch Medicare for anybody over 55, but for younger people it turns it into a defined contribution plan. Instead of assuming open-ended future costs, the government will give you a sum of money (starting at an amount equal to what the government now spends) and a regulated menu of insurance options from which to choose.
The Ryan budget will please governors of both parties by turning Medicaid into a block grant -- giving states more flexibility. It tackles agriculture subsidies and other corporate welfare. It consolidates the job-training programs into a single adult scholarship. It reforms housing assistance and food stamps. It dodges Social Security. The Republicans still have no alternative to the Democratic health care reform, but this budget tackles just about every politically risky issue with brio and guts.
Ryan was a protege of Jack Kemp, and Kemp's uplifting spirit pervades the document. It's not sour, taking an austere meat ax approach. It emphasizes social support, social mobility and personal choice. I don't agree with all of it that I've seen, but it is a serious effort to create a sustainable welfare state -- to prevent the sort of disruptive change we're going to face if national bankruptcy comes.
It also creates the pivotal moment of truth for President Obama. Will he come up with his own counterproposal, or will he simply demagogue the issue by railing against ''savage'' Republican cuts and ignoring the long-term fiscal realities? Does he have a sustainable vision for government, or will he just try to rise above the fray while Nancy Pelosi and others attack Ryan?
And what about the Senate Republicans? Where do they stand? Or the voters? Are they willing to face reality or will they continue to demand more government than they are willing to pay for?
Paul Ryan has grasped reality with both hands. He's forcing everybody else to do the same.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX REFORM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



110 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Obama Opens 2012 Campaign, With Eye on Money and Independent Voters

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama did not directly ask supporters to send contributions as he formally opened his re-election bid on Monday. But to build the grass-roots network that he believes is essential to winning a second term, he is preparing to undertake the most ambitious fund-raising effort by a sitting president.
Whether or not his campaign reaches the billion-dollar mark, as Republicans often suggest as an incentive to increase their own donations, the president's aides have set a goal of surpassing the $750 million he raised in 2008. The money will not be used for television ads -- this year, at least -- but rather to hire an army of workers to begin organizing supporters. 
To begin competing with the arguments being presented by the field of likely Republican candidates, Mr. Obama is poised to open campaign offices in Iowa, New Hampshire and other early-voting states this month. He may not be on the ballot until November 2012, but aides said they were eager to reach out to independent voters before Republicans do.
''I'm going to need you even more this time than last time,'' Mr. Obama said in a conference call to some of his top supporters on Monday evening, noting that neither he nor his campaign had the same ''newness'' that propelled him through the 2008 race.
The president, whose announcement comes on a critical week of budget negotiations with Congressional Republicans to prevent a government shutdown, did not appear in a video sent to supporters, and he is trying to appear above the partisan fray. Republicans criticized the announcement on Monday, saying the president was more intent on winning re-election than on solving the nation's fiscal problems.
With the Iraq and Afghanistan wars still under way, in addition to military action in Libya and uncertainty across the Middle East, the president heads toward re-election in a far different position from when he started his first race four years ago as an antiwar candidate favored by many liberal Democrats. A slow economic recovery also complicates his path to a second term.
''We'll start by doing something unprecedented: coordinating millions of one-on-one conversations between supporters across every single state, reconnecting old friends, inspiring new ones to join the cause, and readying ourselves for next year's fight,'' Mr. Obama said 'in a message to supporters.
While it may seem early to begin planning for an election in which he most likely will not face a Democratic primary challenger, the timeline for Mr. Obama is only slightly earlier than those of his two recent predecessors. President Bill Clinton filed his re-election papers on April 14, 1995, and George W. Bush formally opened his campaign on May 16, 2003.
''We also need to begin mobilizing for 2012,'' Mr. Obama wrote, ''long before the time comes for me to begin campaigning in earnest.''
Like all incumbent presidents before him, Mr. Obama will seek to balance the daily demands of the Oval Office with the realities of campaigning over the next 19 months. He is scheduled to headline fund-raising events for the Democratic National Committee this month in Chicago, San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York.
The president filed papers Monday with the Federal Election Commission, a step that allows him to begin raising money and running a campaign organization, but he was not seen in public. He had a series of calls with party leaders, key Democratic constituencies and an evening conference call with a few thousand activists from the last campaign.
The president and his advisers sought to focus attention on the re-election bid on Monday to reinvigorate the army of volunteers and coalition of supporters who were central to the 2008 victory. Yet behind the scenes, an aggressive fund-raising campaign also began, with top donors asked to contribute $5,000 -- $2,500 for the primary season and another $2,500 for the general election.
''We're doing this now because the politics we believe in does not start with expensive TV ads or extravaganzas, but with you, with people organizing block-by-block, talking to neighbors, co-workers, and friends,'' Mr. Obama wrote. ''And that kind of campaign takes time to build.''
Much of his domestic travel has involved visits to battleground states, featuring topics like education and the economy that are of top concern to voters. On Wednesday, Mr. Obama is heading to Pennsylvania, which he carried in 2008, to discuss energy policy, a pressing topic for many voters at a time when gasoline is averaging $4 a gallon. And on Friday he travels to Indiana, which went Democratic in 2008 for the first time in four decades, to tour a manufacturing plant.
Last week, Mr. Obama gave a widely covered speech on energy policy before an audience of about 1,000 enthusiastic students at Georgetown University -- just the sort of potential first-time voters that Mr. Obama attracted in 2008 and hopes to again. He departed from his script several times with remarks tailored directly to the students.
The president and his wife, Michelle, also recently participated in a White House conference on bullying in schools, a topic that polls indicate to be of great interest to women. While the event was not a big draw with many Washington reporters, it was prominently covered by local newspapers and television stations, including those in swing-voting states like Florida, Colorado and Ohio, according to an administration official who monitors news coverage.
That suggests the emphasis that the Obama team is putting on local communities. The president has invited reporters from several local television stations in battleground states -- Iowa, Ohio, Virginia and Florida, to name a few -- to the White House for interviews.
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is a key surrogate. On Monday, Mr. Biden was at the University of New Hampshire to discuss with students and local residents the administration's efforts to reduce sex crimes on campuses, an issue that resonates with younger and female voters.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: A Changed Landscape for Obama: President Obama faces challenges in many states that he flipped from red to blue in 2008, when he won with 365 electoral votes to John McCain's 173. But Republicans showed signs of strength in the 2010 midterm elections, and the 2010 census further shifted the electoral votes in some states. (Sources: Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Results
 Census Bureau) (CHARTS BY MICHAEL D. SHEAR, HAEYOUN PARK AND DEREK WILLIS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); ARMIES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); IRAQ WAR (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); LIBERALISM (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



111 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Blueprint Would Remake Health Policy

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The proposal to be unveiled by House Republicans on Tuesday to rein in the long-term costs of Medicaid and Medicare represents a fundamental rethinking of how the two programs work, an ambitious effort by conservatives to address the nation's fiscal challenges, and a huge political risk.
House Republican aides said the budget blueprint to be issued by the chairman of the Budget Committee, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, would slice more than $5 trillion from projected federal spending in the coming decade. Health care accounts for much of the savings. 
But while saving large sums for the federal government, the proposals on Medicaid and Medicare could shift some costs to beneficiaries and to the states.
Under the proposal, Medicaid would be transformed into a block grant, with a lump sum of federal money given to the states to care for low-income people. States would be given more discretion over use of the money than they have under the current federal-state partnership.
For future Medicare beneficiaries -- people now under 55 -- Mr. Ryan's proposal calls for the federal government to contribute a specified amount of money toward the premium for private health coverage. Under the traditional Medicare program, the government reimburses doctors and hospitals directly.
Although many House Republicans see a need to revamp Social Security, too, they are not expected to press this week for comprehensive or specific changes in that program.
Democrats signaled that they would fight the health proposals, and the clash could well become a defining issue for both parties in the 2012 elections.
Republicans say the health care proposals would help the federal government predict and control its costs under Medicaid and Medicare, which insure more than 100 million people and account for more than one-fifth of the federal budget.
But if, as many economists predict, health costs continue to rise at a rapid clip, beneficiaries of these programs would be at risk for more of the costs.
Mr. Ryan said his Medicare proposal was similar to one he advanced in November with Alice M. Rivlin, a budget director in the Clinton administration. Analyzing that plan, the Congressional Budget Office said, ''Federal payments would tend to grow more slowly under the proposal than projected costs per enrollee under current law.'' As a result, the budget office said, ''enrollees' spending for health care -- and the uncertainty surrounding that spending -- would increase.''
Medicaid and Medicare are now open-ended entitlements. Anyone who meets the eligibility criteria is entitled to benefits defined in detail by federal law. The federal government and the states must pay the additional cost if more people become eligible for Medicaid, as happened in the recent recession.
Likewise, Medicare bears the cost if doctors perform more numerous, more complex and expensive tests and procedures. Some of those additional costs are passed on to beneficiaries in the form of higher premiums.
Republicans say they are taking the initiative on Medicaid and Medicare because President Obama has done nothing to put the programs on a solid fiscal footing. In his 2012 budget, Mr. Obama did not propose significant savings in Medicaid or Medicare, even though he and many fiscal experts say the programs are unsustainable in their current form.
Mr. Ryan and fellow House Republicans are wading into tricky waters, where many other politicians have run aground.
But with the nation's fiscal problems looming larger, Republicans say the politics of the issue have shifted. They expect to receive credit from the public for trying to hold down the deficit and the debt.
''We have a moral obligation to the country to do this,'' Mr. Ryan said in an interview last week.
Representative Jan Schakowsky, a Democrat and a former executive director of the Illinois State Council of Senior Citizens, said she was incensed by such claims. ''Mr. Ryan and the Republicans are declaring war on entitlements -- and war on the elderly and the poor,'' Ms. Schakowsky said. ''Beneficiaries will end up paying more.''
About half of Medicaid recipients are children. Nearly two-thirds of the money spent on Medicaid benefits is for low-income people who are 65 and older or disabled.
The government shutdown in 1995-96 stemmed, in part, from a conflict between President Bill Clinton and Congressional Republicans over what he described as ''devastating cuts'' in Medicaid and Medicare.
In his veto message in December 1995, Mr. Clinton listed 82 ''objectionable provisions'' of the Republicans' budget bill. He complained that it ''converts Medicaid into a block grant with drastically less spending.''
The Congressional Budget Office recently estimated that a Medicaid block grant, of the type proposed by Mr. Ryan and Ms. Rivlin, could save $180 billion over 10 years. House Republicans could save an additional $434 billion by eliminating the expansion in Medicaid eligibility scheduled to take place in 2014 under the new health care law.
Mr. Ryan said he was not cutting Medicaid and Medicare, but rather slowing their growth rate.
In addition, he insists he is not trying to convert Medicare to a voucher program because the money would be paid to insurance companies and health plans, not directly to beneficiaries. If health costs for a group of patients exceeded the federal payment in a given year, the insurer would have to absorb the cost.
Finally, Mr. Ryan says his proposal is equitable because Medicare would pay less on behalf of higher-income beneficiaries, and they would pay more of the cost of their health coverage.
But high-income Medicare beneficiaries already pay higher premiums, with an annual surcharge of more than $3,800 in premiums for some of the most affluent ones this year.
What Mr. Ryan and his committee plan to do this week is to approve a budget resolution, setting goals for spending and revenues. If approved by the House and the Senate in the same form, such a resolution would bind Congress in its deliberations, but it would not be presented to the president and would not become law.
There is almost no chance the Democratic-controlled Senate would adopt a resolution along the lines Mr. Ryan is proposing, although his counterpart in the Senate, Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, is working on a bipartisan plan to address entitlement spending as part of a broader package to reduce the budget deficit.
The budget resolution typically assumes changes in federal programs like Medicaid and Medicare. But those assumptions do not bind the House committees with power over those programs, which could choose to save the same amounts in other ways.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); MEDICAID (58%); GRANTS & GIFTS (54%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



112 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: No Party Rentals in Miami Beach? Really?

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ and DON VAN NATTA Jr.

 BODY:
MIAMI BEACH -- In this decadent, hard-partying playground, Kirsty Bertarelli's 40th birthday celebration rivaled the best of them. More than 200 guests flew in from Europe. A caravan of limousines ferried them to the site, a flashy waterfront home. The party rocked until 4:30 a.m. It cost $3 million.
But the fact that it almost did not happen -- that a judge had to decide on the very day of the event whether to allow it-- has reignited an increasingly familiar debate here: When does someone's really good time become the bane of someone else's existence? Or, in the case at hand, did one billionaire homeowner rent out his mansion for another billionaire's party in violation of a local ordinance?
''Kirsty's Fabulous 40th Birthday Party,'' as it was billed, was given last month by Ernesto Bertarelli, a Swiss billionaire ranked No. 64 on Forbes's most-wealthy list, for his wife, a singer and a onetime British beauty pageant winner. 
It was held on Star Island, a spot of land on Biscayne Bay beautified two decades ago by the developer Thomas Kramer, a lover of late-night bacchanals and no stranger to controversy. Mr. Kramer rented his estate, Five Star Island, to the Bertarellis for $40,000, a sum that barely covered his expenses, he said. The day before the party, a routine request to the Fire Department to have paramedics on hand caused the city to review the rental agreement, and then threaten to shut down the affair with a police roadblock.
That led to a court hearing in downtown Miami. At risk were the reputations of the rich and famous, Ms. Bertarelli's feelings, the tempers of moneyed, jet-lagged guests, and Miami Beach's tolerance for the whims of the wealthy.
''My wife's 40th birthday will be ruined and forever remembered as a public disgrace to my family unless the party goes forward,'' Mr. Bertarelli told the court, via affidavit, since presumably he was busy preparing for the event.
Summoned on a Saturday afternoon for a rare party-related emergency hearing, Circuit Judge Jose R. Rodriguez listened as lawyers explained that the Bertarellis had no idea their one-night house rental was illegal in Miami Beach, a claim that no one disputed. The judge, holding the ordinance to be ambiguous, swiftly dispensed with the case: The party should go on.
The mayor, Mattie Herrera Bower, is incredulous. ''If you have enough money, you can get a lawyer to get a judge to break the law,'' she said. ''And I was unhappy about the precedent. We have a law for a reason, and everybody -- even people with money -- needs to obey it.''
At the center of the imbroglio is a Miami Beach ordinance that bans using a single-family home for commercial purposes, namely holding parties where money changes hands between the homeowner and the party host. The city passed the ordinance in 2008 after too many mansions were being used as ballrooms-for-hire, jammed with indiscreet partygoers who turned up the music, parked willy-nilly and raised the hackles of the Beach's well-to-do residents.
But the law hardly halted the one-night party house rentals; in fact, the listings increased and the parties of out-of-town revelers bobbed below the city's radar.
''During a certain period of the year, every other weekend something was going on: a launch for a vodka company, a launch for an automobile company, promoters with an after-party,'' said Jorge Gomez, an assistant city manager for planning and zoning. ''Hundreds of cars descending on the neighborhood, valet operations stashing cars all over the place -- it really had a big impact.''
At the same time, owners began renting out their mansions for the night, the week or the month, a result, in part, of the drastic economic downturn. A trio of islands on the bay west of Miami Beach (of which Star is one) may bask in the glow of wealth, but that kind of luxury comes at a price. Ten of 34 properties on Star Island are now for sale, a record number, real estate brokers say.
Gloria Estefan lives across the street from Mr. Kramer. The estates of Sean Combs, a k a Diddy, and Rosie O'Donnell are nearby.
City commissioners banned the short-term rentals of private homes in February 2009, setting the minimum rental period at six months and one day. They said they feared not only an influx of interlopers but also potential damage to the hotel vacancy rate.
But the second ordinance has been even more flagrantly violated, with Web sites listing dreamy spots with expansive gardens, infinity pools, wine cellars and state-of-the-art media centers. A Miami Beach company, Villazzo, offers short-term rentals of 11 Miami Beach ''villas'' and ''villa-hotels.'' One owned by Donald J. Pliner, the shoe designer, is $6,500 per night.
''The problem we have, with all due respect, is the law is not being enforced,'' said Hans Mueller, a banker who is a Palm Island resident and the president of the homeowners' association of Palm, Hibiscus and Star Islands, in an appearance before the city's land-use and development committee on Feb. 23.
Five Star Island's owner, Mr. Kramer, 53, a German citizen, has violated both ordinances, city officials say. The Web site for his 11-bedroom, 29,000-square-foot property -- complete with brass stripper poles embedded in a long dining room table, a stuffed giraffe head looming over the central staircase and a waterside sauna protected by bulletproof glass -- beckons renters and partygoers alike. The property, which features a giant crucifix in Mr. Kramer's bedroom and mini-busts of the Seven Deadly Sins above his bed, is described as ''the ultimate location'' for weddings, vacations, events, photo shoots, commercials, TV shows and films. Penthouse magazine shot a video there in December.
When the city obtained a copy of the rental contract for the Bertarellis' use of Mr. Kramer's house, from 7 p.m. to 4:30 a.m., code enforcement officials pounced on the chance to send a loud message, said Jose Alberto, the code compliance administrator for Miami Beach. But the judge disagreed, and the case is now on appeal.
Mr. Kramer said he was unaware of the ordinance barring commercial use of private homes until just recently. He is perplexed, he added, about the stance of city officials.
''Instead of harassing me and threatening me with lawsuits, the city should thank me for bringing some much needed revenue and hundreds of new jobs to Miami Beach,'' said Mr. Kramer, whose investments in the early 1990s helped spur South Beach's revitalization.
As for the city's leaders, he had a not-so-gentle reminder: ''I bought 16 of the 20 lots on Star Island and transformed it from a trash dump into an exclusive gated community with the multimillion-dollar homes of celebrities.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ernesto Bertarelli, and his wife, Kirsty, at left in 2003, rented Five Star Island, a 29,000-square-foot house in Miami Beach, for a night as the site of Ms. Bertarelli's 40th birthday party. Such rentals are illegal, it turns out, though the law is widely ignored. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB GRIFFITH/ASSOCIATED PRESS
MICHAEL McELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
 Thomas Kramer, Five Star Island's owner, rents out the property despite city laws forbidding it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL McELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (90%); ORDINANCES (88%); JUDGES (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (68%); PARAMEDICS (64%)

PERSON: ERNESTO BERTARELLI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



113 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: April 5, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: The Problems With Derivatives Clearing

BYLINE: STEPHEN J. LUBBEN


HIGHLIGHT: A new International Monetary Fund working paper argues that the focus in the Dodd-Frank Act on central clearing of derivatives is not the best solution. But there are strong counterarguments to consider. 

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund is out with a new paper on derivatives after the storm, and it is a strangely academic exercise for an institution that one would hope would be a bit practical. 
In short, the paper argues that the focus in the Dodd-Frank Act on central clearing of derivatives is not the best solution and that central clearing parties are apt to become "too big to fail."
The first point seems to ignore the current political reality in the United States. Many members of the House majority seem to doubt the need for derivatives regulation. Apparently, they think such regulation destroys jobs, although the connection between employment and derivatives is a bit vague (it apparently has something to do with the benefits of unchecked lending). 
In any event, the realistic options now seem to reside somewhere between what we have in Dodd-Frank and nothing; a new proposal being enacted is about as likely as the Portland Sea Dogs winning the World Series this year.
And when some bankruptcy law professor has already noted the "too big to fail" problem at central clearing parties a year ago, we know we are not exactly breaking new ground here.
But what I want to focus on here is they way in which the I.M.F.'s new paper essentially ignores the costs of close-out netting, which, if you talk to some in the derivatives industry, is something to be protected with the same vigor as apple pie, mom and Old Glory.
In particular, the article in question worries that the move to central clearing would reduce the ability of big financial institutions to "net" their gross exposure to a given counterparty. This is pretty typical among banking types, where netting is seen as a universal good. The costs of netting are rarely discussed.
Netting means that big financial institutions have an ability to immediately terminate all of their derivative contracts with a counterparty upon default under any one of those contracts and reduce the contracts to a single "net" claim. This ability to net is premised on the ability to enforce all defaults, even those that we normally do not allow to be enforced in normal bank insolvency and bankruptcy contexts.
For example, most people cannot call it a default simply because their counterparty has filed for bankruptcy. Financial institutions can with regard to derivatives.
Any bank regulator worth its salt will admit that letting everyone rush to the exits in time of financial crisis imposes a cost -- namely, it increases systemic risk. But the special rules for derivatives that allow netting encourage just that. Notably, the new Dodd-Frank resolution authority prohibits such a rush for 24 hours -- long enough to sell a financial institution's assets or transfer them to a bridge bank. 
Unfortunately, the Dodd-Frank resolution authority is more the exception than the rule, and in most of the more typical resolution processes -- like Chapter 11 -- derivatives still can be canceled. Unless we have great faith that the new resolution authority will always be invoked in times of crisis, we need to account for this cost of accommodating netting.
But maybe we think that "with notablyrare exceptions," financial crises are not the usual state of affairs. 
Even then, it seems that for close out netting to function, it needs hugely overbroad exceptions to general provisions of law, like the Federal Bankruptcy Code. The problem is that the breadth of these provisions has a cost on the real economy, inasmuch as they lead to efforts to rework transactions to fit within the exceptions and lead to value leakage in the bankruptcy process.
My hope is that I can get banking people to stop taking the benefits of netting as a given and to consider the bigger, more nuanced picture. But I'm not naive.
I.M.F. Working Paper on Derivatives

        
Financial Distress and the Bankruptcy Code
        
Banks Increase Holdings in Derivatives

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); CONSUMER LAW (70%) Chapter 11; clearing; Derivatives; Dodd-Frank Act; Federal Bankruptcy Code; International Monetary Fund; Derivatives (Financial Instruments); Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Financial Services; In Debt; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%) International Monetary Fund

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011



114 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Contrarian Adding Bets In Mideast

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
When it comes to investing in the Middle East, Thomas J. Barrack Jr. takes the long view. Very long.
Instability is nothing new in the region, he said. It's been that way for 5,000 years.
''The Middle East is printing money and it's used to operating in chaos,'' said Mr. Barrack, who runs Colony Capital, which controls $36 billion in private equity and real estate investments around the globe, including more than $200 million in the Arab world. ''In fact, it tends to do better in times of chaos than it does in times of peace. Regime changes are just a fact of life.''
While other private equity investors back away from the area, Mr. Barrack said he was ''looking hard'' at adding to his holdings there, which include hotels in Cairo and Bahrain, and grocery stores in Syria.
''Even though the West is thinking that this is a once-in-a-civilization kind of event, these events have taken place many times,'' he said. ''The time to buy is when everybody else is running for the hills.'' 
Indeed, executives at the private equity giant Carlyle Group, which is partly owned by the Abu Dhabi investment firm Mubadala Development and raised a $500 million fund to make Middle East investments in 2009, said they were suspending some of their investment plans in Egypt.
A Carlyle co-founder, David Rubenstein, warned in a speech last month that while his firm was not rushing for the exits, ''today isn't the day to do an investment in Egypt.'' He added that ''what's going on in the Middle East isn't going to end anytime soon.''
In an e-mailed statement on Tuesday, Mr. Rubenstein added, ''The events taking place in the Middle East are significant and will take time to resolve themselves, but we are optimistic about the region's long-term prospects.''
Until recently, the Middle East was a hot area for private equity firms, which raised billions of dollars to invest in the region only to discover that their visions of quick profits were a mirage. Some players, meanwhile, are concerned that with the current unrest stretching from North African nations like Libya, Tunisia and Egypt to Bahrain in the Persian Gulf as well as Yemen and Syria, people will seek opportunities elsewhere.
''Over the last three years or so, we had big investors in the U.S. and Europe starting to get interested in private equity investments in the region,'' said Ahmed Youssef, a partner in the Dubai office of the consulting firm Booz & Company. ''Now my worry is when will this interest come back or whether it will come back at all if people are scared,'' he said.
Mr. Barrack, however, has a long history of challenging the conventional wisdom. The grandson of Lebanese immigrants who owned a grocery store in the suburbs of Los Angeles, Mr. Barrack became a billionaire by buying out-of-favor assets.
Those contrarian bets include buying bad loans during the savings and loan crisis as well as betting on Asian assets after the Asian currency crisis of the late 1990s, both of which turned out to be hugely successful investments. The Colony funds that were raised from 1998 to 2003 posted annual returns of more than 20 percent, according to one investor.
Now 63, with a gleaming shaved head and trim figure -- his hobbies include polo and surfing -- Mr. Barrack, who speaks Arabic, has moved comfortably within the worlds of Middle East royalty and powerful leaders for four decades. When he's not traveling, he splits his time between a ranch in Santa Barbara with four polo fields, where he raises horses and makes four wines (Wine Spectator rated his 2005 Piocho a 92), and a 6,000-acre oceanfront resort in Sardinia, called Costa Smeralda.
Mr. Barrack landed in Saudi Arabia in the early 1970s, just after finishing law school, when a partner at his law firm learned of his family's roots. Soon after arriving to work on a deal for a gas liquefaction plant, one of the Saudi operating executives there asked Mr. Barrack if he knew how to play squash, because someone needed a partner.
''So I started playing squash with a local Saudi,'' he recalled. ''I had no idea who it was, and he asked if I could play the next day for a couple of hours. Turns out this guy was one of the sons of the king. So my first break had nothing to do with gray matter in my head or intellect or knowledge of deals. It was because I was the one person within 1,000 miles who could play squash.''
His connections came in handy again in 1974, when Mr. Barrack was the legal counsel for an agreement involving Lonnie Dunn, a Texan who bought land in Haiti with the goal of building a refinery, the Haitian dictator Jean-Claude Duvalier, and two Saudi princes, for the rights for Saudi oil to be sold to Haiti at a discount.
More recently, in 2007, he nearly struck a deal with Libyan authorities to buy a 65 percent stake in Tamoil, a local refiner. The deal fell apart over price, timing and the complexity of the transaction, Mr. Barrack said.
When asked whether he had any qualms about doing business with unsavory regimes, Mr. Barrack said he consulted officials at the State Department and the Commerce Department on all deals in emerging markets. He adds that the Haitian transaction, for instance, was supported by the United States commercial attache in Haiti at the time.
For Mr. Barrack, the key to the Middle East's appeal is what first drew foreign investors to the region a century ago: oil. ''There are 22 countries producing oil and they have been the beneficiary of a tremendous windfall,'' he said. ''For every $1 increase in the price of oil, there is a $9 billion per year windfall profit to the region.''
Even with the unrest, that money is flowing into local economies, as well as to private equity firms like Colony. In July, Mr. Barrack worked with the Qatar government's sovereign wealth fund and others to acquire Miramax Films and its 700-plus film library from the Walt Disney Company for about $660 million.
In addition, he teamed up with Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia in 2006 to buy the Fairmont and Raffles hotel chains, including properties in Mecca, Dubai and Cairo. At Accor, a French hotel chain with locations in Bahrain, Egypt and Yemen, Mr. Barrack holds a 16.5 percent stake, as well as a seat on the board.
Then there's Carrefour, a French company that has hypermarkets (combined grocery and department stores) sprinkled throughout the Middle East, including in Syria, Egypt and Saudi Arabia. Together with Bernard Arnault, the French billionaire who runs LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, Colony is the largest shareholder in Carrefour.
For all of Mr. Barrack's confidence, recent returns have been a far cry from the double-digit gains of the boom years.
Like other private equity firms that raised billions from 2005 to 2007, paid high prices for assets, and then leveraged them to the hilt with borrowed money, some of Colony's more recently created funds are showing losses of as much as 50 percent, but ''we are fighting our way back,'' said Mr. Barrack.
Mr. Barrack concedes his toughest deals occurred in 2007 and 2008, citing a combination of bad timing and too much debt, particularly in the $8.8 billion buyout of Las Vegas-based Station Casino in 2007. Station filed for bankruptcy in 2009.
Not that Mr. Barrack is suffering from any self-doubt. ''The jungle is a safer place with professionals than amateurs,'' he said. ''When you are going through hell, just keep on going.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas J. Barrack Jr. of Colony Capital said regime change can yield favorable returns. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ALCORN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (55%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (90%); BOOZ & CO INC (80%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (90%)

PERSON: THOMAS BARRACK (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (51%) MIDDLE EAST (98%); EGYPT (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); SYRIA (92%); BAHRAIN (88%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); TUNISIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); AFRICA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



115 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: When Class Meant Brie And Pears

BYLINE: By JEFF GORDINIER

 BODY:
SURELY it tells us something about the fickle nature of the American appetite that Harry & David is looking for ways to remind its customers of the existence of trees.
Harry & David's fruit baskets have been a staple of American life for decades, but the firm has been going through a rough patch lately. Sales cratered during the recession, and a debt crisis forced the company to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last week.
Ross A. Klein, the executive vice president and chief brand officer at Harry & David, never introduced the word ''bankruptcy'' into our phone conversation last Friday, but he did use the word ''sustainable,'' as well as the phrase ''carbon footprint.'' He talked about fruit (pears, in particular) and how to get the American consumer stirred up about ''the ritual of sharing and giving,'' as he stressed several times on the phone.
He talked about the microclimate in Medford, the town in Oregon where the famous pears are grown, and how Harry & David, founded more than 75 years ago by two soil-under-the-fingernails entrepreneurs, Harry and David Rosenberg, still feels like an ''independent farm stand,'' even though the fabled orchards are now owned by Wasserstein & Company, an investment firm in New York. 
''Our roots are literally in the Rogue Valley in Oregon,'' Mr. Klein said. ''Over the last three or four years, we've seen a return to 'farm to table' as part of our messaging.''
In case customers need convincing, the Harry & David team has been busy hooking a camera up to the Internet so people can eventually watch the sweet bounty of Medford as it ripens.
Debt may be a serious threat on the financial front, but Harry & David's orchard cam illustrates a different sort of peril for anyone who makes or sells a food product that has long been viewed as an established emblem of luxury. When there is a profusion of new choices, the allure of earlier choices can begin to dim. Sometimes it's hard to stay smitten with a care package shipped from the Pacific Northwest in the belly of a jet when you can pick your own heirloom fruit right off the branches at a nearby orchard that supposedly provided sustenance to soldiers during the Revolutionary War.
Think of this as Brie Syndrome. Back in the 1970s and 1980s, it was de rigueur, when guests came over, to haul out a cold wheel of Brie.
''It was the first imported cheese that we knew and we could pronounce,'' said Jason Tesauro, an author of the book ''The Modern Gentleman: A Guide to Essential Manners, Savvy & Vice,'' who curates high-end parties and tasting events from his headquarters in Richmond, Va.
Over time, though, Americans began to learn about manchego and Humboldt Fog and mimolette and Epoisses. ''Everybody just started getting more and more sophisticated about cheese,'' said Susan Holland, a New York event producer. ''There's fabulous Brie, but Brie got pushed aside in the rush to learn new things, and it became not chic. It became the opposite of chic.''
These days, as the American gourmand becomes increasingly obsessed with the origins and purity of every organic nibble that might appear on, say, a cheese and fruit platter, it takes extra effort to fend off the vogue for shaggy, independent upstarts.
''The new fancy is knowing the provenance of your food,'' Mr. Tesauro said. ''Fancy is that muddy boot-print on the kitchen floor from where Farmer Clark brought in the first asparagus of the season.''
More than ever, in this craft-fixated era, what's ordered in a restaurant, sent as a gift or served at a cocktail party acts as a subtle gesture about one's level of culinary sophistication. Which means people have to stay alert to the shifts.
''What you see with Harry & David is that they really didn't adapt,'' said Pamela N. Danziger, a consultant and author who has focused, in books like ''Let Them Eat Cake,'' on the fine points of luxury marketing. ''We are really evolving toward more of a connoisseur culture. Why would you buy a Harry & David pear when you can go to Whole Foods and get the same quality pear?''
Brie Syndrome afflicts a wide range of foods and drinks that have had a challenging time holding onto their Fancy Champion of the World status. Chowhounds who are old enough to remember the days when Whitney Houston and Phil Collins dominated the pop charts can attest that, yes, there was a time when a plate of cold pasta salad with sun-dried tomatoes, accompanied by a glass of Perrier and followed by a handful of Famous Amos cookies, was considered a lunch fit for a duchess.
If tiramisu could speak, it would surely tell us that nothing lasts forever. (Watch your back, pork belly.)
Nowhere is Brie Syndrome more striking than in the realm of chocolate. Around the time that Brie was fastening its moldy grip on the American consciousness, the go-to brand for cocoa-bean luxury was, indisputably, Godiva. Back then, even though the chocolatier was owned by the Campbell's Soup conglomerate, which later sold it to a giant Turkish company called Yildiz Holding, Godiva was often portrayed with the kind of lingo that we might now use to describe some small-batch chocolate ambrosia made by elves stirring medieval bronze caldrons in a monastically temperature-controlled loft in Seattle.
''Our positioning is clearly as a super-premium chocolate in the Belgian tradition,'' James A. Goldman, Godiva's president and chief executive, said in a phone interview last week. ''We're very much true to that.''
On the other hand, ''one of the big challenges we've had is, yes, we're super-premium, yes, we're luxury and prestige, but we don't want to be viewed as unapproachable,'' he said. ''We were kind of putting ourselves into a corner by being so up on a pedestal.''
To that end, boxes of Godiva sweets can now be bought in malls and corner drugstores. There are American-palate-friendly flavor combinations, such as mint-chocolate chip, red-velvet cake and chocolate lava cake, whose terroir probably has more in common with T.G.I. Friday's than with Brussels. There are nods, too, to the current jones for provenance and all things handmade.
''That has been a trend, and I think it actually has made all of us better,'' Mr. Goldman said. ''We have a line of artisanal barks. These are kind of lumpy, bumpy, crunchy slabs of chocolate and other ingredients. We even have a cookies & cream one. That sort of links to the artisanal desires out there.
''One of the best products we've got for Easter is this sort of beaded egg, which is very artisanal-looking,'' he added.
As a $600-million colossus, Godiva doesn't have to worry much about a $1.2-million-a-year pipsqueak like Madecasse, a chocolate start-up, with a main office in Brooklyn, that prides itself on a bean-to-bar ethos. Its ingredients are grown and harvested in Madagascar, and the bars of chocolate are made there, too, putting more money in local hands. For customers, that story is a selling point.
''It's why they pick us up,'' said Tim McCollum, 33, a founder of the company. ''The education of the chocolate consumer has evolved pretty considerably.''
Madecasse may be small, but the threat to mainstream dominance isn't always a new product. In this case, it's a new idea. ''For anyone who's into chocolate, Godiva is a weird concept,'' Mr. McCollum said. ''If you go back 10 years, high-end chocolate was Lindt, Ghirardelli and Godiva. Now that's what you'd buy at CVS, at Duane Reade, at a rest stop on the Jersey Turnpike.''
All of that class-to-mass growth may lead to a frothier revenue stream, but it changes the way formerly fancy entities like Godiva and Harry & David are perceived.
Then again, it would be a mistake to rule out the power of nostalgia -- or at least dug-in habits.
Rob Kaufelt, the owner of Murray's Cheese Shop, points out that in the 20 years he's been introducing New Yorkers to an endless variety of cheeses, Brie has remained among his top 10 sellers.
''Brie is still popular,'' Mr. Kaufelt said. ''Things may go out of fashion, but that doesn't mean that they're not popular. And like all of fashion, if you wait long enough, it'll come back around again.''
He could be right. On the phone, Ms. Holland started mulling over the idea of a theme party at which the formerly fancy wheel of cheese could act as a curveball piece de resistance.
''If you wanted something retro and ironic, then we could serve baked Brie,'' she said. ''And it would be delicious.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FRESH APPROACH: Harry & David is emphasizing the company's roots. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY & DAVID)(D1)
 A CHANGE IN STATUS: The gilded appeal of products such as Brie, Perrier and Godiva has faded as more products enter the market and factors such as provenance and craftsmanship gain cachet. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BECKY LUIGART-STAYNER/CORBIS, ALASTAIR MILLER/BLOOMBERG, JOHN THYS /AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); CHEESE (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (71%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (69%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: WASSERSTEIN & CO LP (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



116 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Commodities Gain as Inflation Worries Take Hold

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stock indexes changed little in a quiet day on Wall Street, when minutes from the most recent meeting of the Federal Reserve's policy committee showed few signs that the central bank planned to make changes to its stimulus program. Trading volume remained light. 
The minutes, from the Fed's meeting on March 15, confirmed that members of the central bank are split about whether it needs to tighten credit later this year to ward off inflation. All of the committee's members agreed that the economy was improving.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 6.13 points, or 0.05 percent, to 12,393.90. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 0.24 points, or 0.02 percent, at 1,332.63. The Nasdaq composite index gained 2.0 points, or 0.07 percent, to 2,791.19.
Companies that make basic materials from commodities rose as traders anticipated continued price increases for commodities. The aluminum maker Alcoa rose 2.8 percent, Newmont Mining rose 4.4 percent and Dow Chemical rose 1.3 percent.
Howard F. Ward, the chief investment officer for Gamco Investors, said the market appeared to be concerned the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, ''doesn't share the same level of concern regarding inflation that it might wish him to, and that is leading to stronger commodity prices.''
Many investors have been more focused on the policies of the Fed rather than the threat of a government shutdown if Republicans and Democrats cannot reach an agreement on federal spending levels. ''There is a game of chicken going on in Washington right now to see who will move first,'' Mr. Ward said.
Stocks edged lower in early trading like most world markets after China raised an important lending rate and Moody's lowered Portugal's credit rating.
A survey from the Institute for Supply Management reported growth at service companies last month but at a slower rate than analysts were expecting.
Technology companies climbed after Texas Instruments said it planned to buy National Semiconductor for $6.5 billion in cash. Shares of National Semiconductor rose 71 percent.
After falling several dollars earlier in the day, Apple regained most of its losses. The Nasdaq OMX Group announced a rebalancing of the Nasdaq-100 index for next month that will cut Apple's weighting in the index to 12 percent from 20 percent. That will probably force some money managers to reduce their holdings.
Trading in the largest stocks of the Nasdaq index may be more volatile before the rebalancing takes effect, but the change may make index funds that are based on the Nasdaq more appropriate for lay investors, said John DiBacco, global head of equity finance at UBS.
''When you buy an index fund you are hoping for diversification,'' he said. ''If one name makes up a fifth of the index you aren't quite accomplishing what you hoped.''
KB Home fell 4 percent. The home builder reported a first-quarter loss of $1.49 a share, more than the 25 cents loss analysts were expecting.
Crude oil prices were steady, while gold rose more than 1 percent.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 17/32, to 101 6/32, and the yield rose to 3.48 percent from 3.42 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A trader at the New York Mercantile Exchange. Share prices rose for companies using commodities to make basic materials. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (87%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); EQUITY FINANCING (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INDEX FUNDS (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CHEMICALS (75%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (73%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); INTEREST RATES (62%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (81%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (64%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (55%); ALCOA INC (55%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (55%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (52%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (52%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (81%); DOW (SWX) (55%); DOW (NYSE) (55%); DOW (LSE) (55%); 4850 (TSE) (55%); AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%); NEM (NYSE) (55%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (52%); TXN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (55%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



117 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Strained State Officials Fear Effects of a Federal Shutdown

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Already straining to make ends meet as the longest downturn since the Great Depression grinds on, state and local governments are now facing a new, unwelcome question: What would a shutdown of the federal government mean for their struggles to balance their budgets?
If a shutdown were to happen, the federal money that helps states pay the administrative costs of their stretched unemployment programs could dry up, forcing states to advance the money to keep the programs running. Federal grants for a variety of programs -- including research, higher education and training local law enforcement officers -- could be delayed. 
Furloughing nonessential federal workers and halting payments to federal contractors could have a domino effect as local tax collections plummet in the Washington area and other places with many federal workers. And if national parks were closed, some states could lose tourism business, and the local tax revenues they generate.
''It all comes down to timing,'' said Scott D. Pattison, the executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers, which has been fielding calls this week from nervous state officials. ''If it's just a few days, you can deal with it. But if it's over a week or two, the financial management people's foreheads start to get a little sweaty.''
The impact of a short federal shutdown would be minimal, the association wrote in a recent briefing paper. A longer shutdown could pose problems. Even if many of the potential fiscal effects are relatively small, they could create cash-flow problems for some states already operating on tight budgets.
Illinois, for example, is currently trying to pay off a $4.5 billion backlog of bills to vendors going back to October. Bradley C. Hahn, a spokesman for the Illinois comptroller, Judy Baar Topinka, said, ''A shutdown would be particularly devastating for states like ours that have no margins to cover the costs.''
Most of the largest federal programs that states rely on -- for crucial safety net programs like Medicaid and food stamps, among other things -- would most likely continue to function in the event of a shutdown.
But interruptions of smaller programs could still strain states in the short run, as they find themselves forced to pay the salaries of workers normally paid with federal funds.
The budget officers' association noted that during the shutdown in 1995, Maryland spent $1.4 million a day to keep its federally paid employees at work.
While those kinds of expenses would probably be reimbursed, they are coming as many states are unusually vulnerable.
Some states have been preparing for a possible shutdown. Massachusetts estimates that it has roughly 4,500 full-time workers who are paid from various federal sources. State budget officials sent a memo to all department heads last month, urging them to identify any concerns ''as they relate to their ability to make bi-weekly payroll for employees currently paid from federal sources.''
A shutdown could lead to the loss of tax revenues for a city like Washington, where an estimated 69,700 federal workers live and pay taxes. All told, more than 200,000 federal civilian employees work there, and support the local economy every time they go to lunch.
Washington is already considering tax increases and service cuts to close a $322 million deficit next year. A federal shutdown, by some calculations, could cost the city as much as $6 million a week in lost tax revenue.
But the impact of shutdowns is not always dire.
Virginia officials said the 1995 shutdown had little effect on state tax collections: many of Virginia's federal and military workers were deemed essential, and its nonessential federal workers who were furloughed were reimbursed for their lost wages.
Mr. Pattison, of the budget officers association, said states seemed much more nervous this year than in the past. ''They have so much on their plate,'' he said. ''Anything that might have an impact, no matter how small, they're worried about.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker at the Smithsonian Institution's Air and Space Museum posted a closing sign during the 1995 federal government shutdown. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); MEDICAID (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); NATIONAL PARKS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



118 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLES: The Threat to Medicaid and Medicare

 BODY:
Representative Paul Ryan's proposals to reform Medicare and Medicaid are mostly an effort to shift the burden to beneficiaries and the states. They have very little reform in them. 
They certainly won't solve the two most pressing problems in the nation's health care system: the relentlessly rising cost of care and the shamefully high number of uninsured Americans -- now hovering around 50 million. Mr. Ryan is also determined to repeal the new health care reform law. Never mind that the law would make real progress on both fronts, covering more than 30 million of the uninsured and pushing to make health care delivery more efficient and effective and less costly.
One of Mr. Ryan's most damaging ideas is to change Medicare and Medicaid from entitlement programs -- covering everyone who is eligible for a defined set of services. Instead, Washington would contribute set amounts that would almost certainly grow more slowly than medical costs. You will hear a lot about how squeezing outlays will mean more efficiency. The real result is that the most vulnerable -- the elderly, the poor, the disabled -- will have to pay more for care or forgo treatment.
The government currently pays half or more of the costs of Medicaid, which insures the poor. Under Mr. Ryan's proposal, the federal government would give each state a lump sum that probably would not keep pace with rising costs or accommodate surges in demand. Right now when a recession hits, the federal and state contributions rise to meet the higher rolls. The states would be given great flexibility, but many would use that to reduce benefits or drop people from coverage.
Mr. Ryan would largely privatize Medicare starting in 2022. New enrollees would be given ''premium supports'' to help them buy private insurance. The rich would get lower subsidies, the sickest and poorest would get additional assistance. Once again, the federal payments would likely grow more slowly than costs forcing individuals to buy skimpier coverage or pay more.
Republicans hope that competition among the private plans would lead them to use the most efficient doctors and hospitals. The reform law also seeks savings from such competition but goes far beyond that, starting pilot projects and establishing new organizations to spread the most promising reforms throughout the system.
For decades the Republicans have made clear their antipathy toward Medicare and Medicaid. Now they are trying to use the public's legitimate concerns about the deficit to seriously cripple both programs. This isn't real reform. If it moves forward, Americans will pay a high price.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MEDICAID (58%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



119 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Closing Parks, Feeding Tigers And Deciding Who's Essential

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and ROBERT PEAR; Reporting was contributed by Eric Lipton, John M. Broder, Binyamin Appelbaum and Matthew L. Wald.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The National Zoo would close, but the lions and tigers would get fed; Yellowstone and other national parks would shut down. The Internal Revenue Service could stop issuing refund checks. Customs and Border Patrol agents training officials in Afghanistan might have to come home. And thousands of government-issued BlackBerrys would go silent.
This is what a government shutdown might look like.
With budget talks between Republicans and Democrats far from resolution, official Washington braced on Tuesday for a replay of the Great Government Shutdowns of 1995 and 1996. For weeks, the Obama administration has been quietly examining the experience of the mid-1990s as a kind of shutdown survival guide. Now those preparations have kicked into high gear. 
The White House Office of Management and Budget directed the heads of federal agencies on late Monday to share contingency plans with senior managers. On Capitol Hill, the chairman of the Committee on House Administration warned ''nonessential employees'' on Tuesday to turn off their BlackBerrys during a shutdown, or risk punishment for working while on furlough.
And at the Smithsonian Institution, employees were preparing for a lot of disappointed tourists. The 1995 and 1996 shutdowns occurred in the dead of winter. Now it is spring break; Linda St. Thomas, a spokeswoman, said the Smithsonian has sold 23,000 advance tickets for cafeteria meals and Imax movies in April. Her staff was prepared to print ''Closed Due to Government Shutdown'' signs to tape to windows in their museums.
''I got a call yesterday from a woman in Cincinnati; she was bringing a big family, two cars, they were going to drive in from Ohio on Friday,'' Ms. St. Thomas said. ''She wanted to know, what should she do? I said, 'I don't know.' ''
In any shutdown, the government does not completely cease functioning, of course. Activities that are essential to national security, like military operations, can continue. Air traffic control and other public safety functions are exempt from shutdowns. Federal prisons still operate; law enforcement and criminal investigations can continue. Employees deemed essential to the functioning of government can come to work. (In ego-driven Washington, a federal shutdown forces high-powered workers to confront their self-worth. Many federal officials insisted on showing up in previous shutdowns, apparently unable to come to grips with idea they might not be considered vital.)
During the shutdowns of 1995 and 1996, cleanup work on toxic waste sites was halted because contractors could not be paid and Environmental Protection Agency officials could not monitor cleanup work. Work on more than 3,500 bankruptcy cases was suspended, and the government took a break from going after deadbeat dads. Tens of thousands of passport and visa applications went unprocessed.
Yet in preparation for a possible shutdown of 2011, officials have discovered that the lessons of more than a decade ago are not always relevant. An entire federal agency, the Department of Homeland Security, has come into existence since then. Most of its employees would continue working at airports, borders and seaports as usual, but many managers at headquarters would be temporarily out of work, a federal official said.
The government is much more heavily involved in the mortgage lending market today than in the mid-1990s, and officials are deeply concerned about the economic fallout should the Federal Housing Administration stop guaranteeing loans. Yet Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, though government-owned, would continue to operate.
Officials are also concerned about unemployment benefits, paid jointly by the federal government and the states. In 1995, with the jobless rate at 5.6 percent, states were able to draw on their trust funds to pay the federal portion. Today, many state funds are borrowing from the federal government.
And the growth of the Internet is another big change in the bureaucratic landscape, creating entirely new questions for policy makers to contend with.
''We realized that the world was a very different place in 1995 than now,'' said one official familiar with the planning, who insisted on anonymity to speak candidly about it. ''In 1995, you really didn't have the question of: Are Web sites essential? Is e-mail essential? What do you do about people's BlackBerrys? Is a Twitter feed an essential way of communicating? None of that existed. These are all legal questions to figure out.''
Much would depend on how long a shutdown lasts. (The longest previous episode ran three weeks.) At the federal courts, officials said they could continue operations for 10 days to two weeks, using money from fees paid by people who have filed civil suits. ''After that, who knows?'' said Karen E. Redmond, a spokeswoman for the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.
One key question is whether federal employees -- the government work force includes more than 1.9 million civilian workers -- would be compensated in the event of a shutdown. Many of those workers are deemed nonessential, but federal officials have not provided an estimate of the number.
John Berry, director of the Office of Personnel Management, posted information on the agency's Web site on Tuesday night saying that ''federal agencies do not have the authority to pay their employees during a shutdown.'' Congress, he said, would decide whether to pay employees who are furloughed. In the past, Congress often provided such pay, but the political climate now is different, and lawmakers might be less willing to do so.
Members of Congress and White House officials have broad discretion about whether to declare their employees essential. In previous shutdowns, most worked with skeleton crews.
The chairman of the Committee on House Administration, Representative Dan Lungren, Republican of California, sent detailed guidance on Tuesday to all House members and offices on what they could and could not do during a government shutdown.
A sample letter he provided warned: ''Working in any way during a period of furlough, even as a volunteer, is grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. To avoid violating this prohibition, we strongly recommend that you turn your BlackBerries off for the duration of the furlough.''
Around Washington on Tuesday, there was a sense of nervous anticipation -- and some confusion. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said a shutdown would have a ''very material'' impact on his department, but he declined to elaborate. Administration officials said the Treasury would continue one indispensable role: holding regular auctions of federal debt, so the government could borrow more money from the public.
The Office of Management and Budget is not making its contingency plans public, a source of irritation to the American Federation of Government Employees, the union that represents more than 600,000 federal workers. Its president, John Gage, said Tuesday that the union has sued the Obama administration under the Freedom of Information Act to compel the plans' release.
''I think everybody needs to get a better idea of what a shutdown means -- who is essential and who is not,'' Mr. Gage said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker Newt Gingrich, speaking in November 1995 about the shutdown. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG GIBSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A16) GRAPHICS: Shutting the Government Down: Aside from certain exceptions, the government is prohibited by law from operating if money has not been appropriated by Congress. (Sources: Office of Management and Budget
Office of Personnel Management
Congressional Research Service) (GRAPHIC BY ELISABETH GOODRIDGE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Closing or Staying Open?: Which departments close completely, partly or not at all depends on a variety of factors like if the agency is self-financed, provides national security or protects life and property. (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); WILD CATS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); PRISONS (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%); OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (59%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (78%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



120 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: China's Central Bank Raises Interest Rates

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- China raised interest rates on Tuesday for the fourth time in six months, the latest move aimed at reining in inflation and a looming property bubble and slowing an economy that is threatening to overheat.
The central bank raised the benchmark one-year bank deposit rate by a quarter of a percentage point, to 3.25 percent, effective Wednesday. The one-year lending rate rose by the same amount, to 6.31 percent.
The latest rate increase, announced on a national holiday when the financial markets were closed, was widely expected by analysts, some of whom say they believe it will be followed by another increase in May. 
Raising interest rates should encourage depositors to hold more money in their accounts and make it slightly more costly for individuals and corporations to borrow from banks, which would help reduce spending and ease upward pressure on prices.
Wang Qing, an economist at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong, said in a report released after the rate announcement that the move was possibly a reaction to signs of growing inflationary pressure on the Consumer Price Index in March.
''This rate hike suggests that the March C.P.I. that is to be released early next week may have surprised to the upside,'' Mr. Wang said in his report. He said he believed the index had risen by about 5.2 percent in March.
In February, consumer prices in China increased 4.9 percent, driven by an 11 percent rise in food prices, while producer prices rose 7.2 percent, the biggest increase since October 2008.
Earlier on Tuesday, the Reserve Bank of Australia kept that country's interest rates steady and said that inflation had been held in check by ''the high level of the exchange rate, the earlier decline in wages growth and strong competition in some key markets.''
The European Central Bankis expected to raise interest rates when it meets on Thursday, but analysts predict the Bank of England will leave borrowing rates unchanged. The Bank of Japan also meets Thursday and will be closely watched to see if it puts in place any additional policy measures in the wake of the disasters.
Beijing has been trying for months to slow economic growth by ordering Chinese banks to moderate lending and to hold onto larger reserves.
The government has also tried to ease consumer price inflation with a rash of measures, including agricultural subsidies, reducing transportation fees, releasing grain reserves and even pressuring state-owned companies -- as well as some foreign companies -- not to raise consumer prices.
Worried about social discontent over housing prices, Beijing has asked local governments to find ways to stem soaring property prices. It even set goals for increases in home prices this year.
The problems China faces are in sharp contrast to other parts of the world. While the United States and European Union are trying to ramp up growth, China has been sizzling hot for much of the last two years, partly because of a huge stimulus package that went into effect in 2009, fueling a nationwide housing and infrastructure boom.
Now, Beijing wants to moderate an economy that has been growing by about 10 percent a year for the last two years but also to restructure and rebalance it away from heavy reliance on exports and investment-led growth. Many economists have been warning that if China wants to achieve sustainable growth it needs to encourage more domestic consumption and to ease a widening income gap.
Interest rates are just one tool Beijing is using to get there. Analysts say the government may have chosen to act this week because there are growing signs that inflation may not peak until May or June.
Still, many economists are confident China will succeed in slowing the economy in the first half of this year. They then expect it to loosen controls in the latter part of the year and record yet another year of strong growth -- 9 percent or better -- with a more modest level of inflation at around 3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING IN CHINA (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); HOME PRICES (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); EURO (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); FOOD PRICES (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); GRAIN RESERVES (64%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); AGRICULTURE (60%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (55%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%); RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA (54%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%); BANK OF ENGLAND (52%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (90%) CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



121 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: An Odd Challenge for Planners: How to Shrink a City

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- When Marja M. Winters was studying urban planning in graduate school, she learned the art and science of helping cities grow.
Now Ms. Winters, a native of Detroit and the deputy director of the city's planning and development department, finds herself in an utterly unexpected role, one that no school would have thought to prepare her for: she is sorting out how to help her hometown shrink, by working through difficult decisions that will determine which neighborhoods can be saved and which cannot.
''It was always this notion that the population of the world continues to grow, and more and more people want to live in cities,'' Ms. Winters, 33, said about her courses at the University of Michigan. ''The reality is very different. Who knew?''
Puzzling through the best way to downsize a city it is not unheard of (it has been considered in Youngstown, Ohio, and Flint, Mich. and even, decades ago, in New York). And Mayor Dave Bing has made it a priority to deal with Detroit's fast-sinking population and crumbling infrastructure by steering those who remain into fewer neighborhoods, rather than leaving them scattered throughout the 139-square-mile city, whose boundaries made more sense when twice as many people lived here 40 years ago. 
Actually carrying out such an effort, particularly in a city as vast as Detroit, is like solving a complicated set of interwoven puzzles, as Ms. Winters has discovered over many long days and some nights poring over thousands of pages of maps and statistics in her 23rd-floor downtown office.
How to reconfigure roads, bus lines, police districts? How to encourage people -- there is no power of eminent domain to force them -- to move out of the worst neighborhoods and into better ones?
Later this month, a team that includes Ms. Winters is expected to present a proposed -- and certain to be highly controversial -- map to guide investment in each of the city's neighborhoods. A final plan for a remade city is expected by year's end.
''The biggest misconception is that we don't have to change,'' said Mr. Bing, who was elected in 2009 and describes his city as a place that is ''hurting'' and ''sick.''
''The biggest problems are those people who are on the outskirts more than anything else, where neighborhoods have gone down to a point where it makes no sense to reinvest,'' he said. ''People will say, 'Well, why not me?' And I'm saying, we don't have the money to do that.''
Detroit is already shrinking on its own, of course. Recent census figures show the city, once the nation's fourth largest, lost a quarter of its population in the last decade alone, leaving it with fewer than 714,000 people.
But the losses have been spread around the city, meaning that vacant, dilapidated homes and empty lots speckle Detroit's neighborhoods, rather than cropping up in consolidated, convenient chunks on the city edges, leaving a more vibrant core. In fact, some of the city's best-kept neighborhoods are on its outer edges, while the troubled spots are closer to downtown.
And so, a contingent of private consultants and city officials like Ms. Winters have taken part in one of the deepest mile-by-mile analyses of Detroit in memory, tracking population densities, foreclosed homes, disease, parks, roads, water lines, sewer lines, bus routes, publicly owned lands, and on and on.
Among the dismal findings: more than 100,000 parcels, private and public, are vacant; and only 38 percent of Detroiters work in the city.
The goal is to identify the strongest, most viable neighborhoods, which would receive extra attention and help from the city. The residents of some of the weakest, emptiest neighborhoods would be encouraged to move into them.
It will be a difficult sell for people like Luther Gordon, whose home on the east side of the city sits across from an empty house that burned down a few nights ago and a vacant lot on a block with many vacant lots.
''I'm going to stay right here,'' said Mr. Gordon, 54, about the possibility that his neighborhood of more than two decades might be deemed too far gone to save. ''I don't plan to go anywhere but in the ground.''
Rumors are winding through neighborhoods. Chief among them is that the worst neighborhoods will actually be closed, with the power turned off and buildings bulldozed. The true intent, Ms. Winters said, is far more nuanced, and slower-moving.
Though the city will offer some kind of incentives for people in miserable neighborhoods to move, no neighborhood will be simply shut down, she said. A place deemed not worthy of new residential investment might see subtle shifts: services like garbage pickup, she said, could slow to every 12 days from once a week.
''We want to reduce the city's cost of delivering services, but we also want to support a baseline quality of life -- the key is how do we balance that out?'' Ms. Winters said.
The ultimate plan for those neighborhoods -- and the ultimate cost of consolidating them -- is uncertain; some might become home to new industry, and some might be used to fill temporary needs, or for urban gardens and green space.
In more well-to-do neighborhoods, like Indian Village, where mansions fill the blocks and lawn-service crews were out in force last week, the idea of shrinking the city's neighborhoods sounds appealing to many residents.
''When I go in some of the neighborhoods now, I have tears in my face, I just can't believe what I see,'' said Rukayya Ahsan-McTier, who was walking briskly for exercise in Indian Village, while clasping a golf club in one hand for protection from stray dogs or, as she said, any other trouble that might come her way.
Still, even Ms. Ahsan-McTier had lingering doubts about how the city's plan would work. How would the city persuade people to move from less expensive neighborhoods to more expensive ones? And would the new neighbors mesh?
Elsewhere, others had their own worries: Would this simply amount to another chapter of ''urban renewal'' in which the poorest, least educated and unluckiest would be forced to move?
And what exactly would become of the neighborhoods with diminished services, likely to be places already plagued in some cases by what residents described as new, audacious brands of crimes? (Stores in some neighborhoods here have taken to placing cement blocks outside their glass entryways, residents said, to prevent thieves from crashing their cars through the doors for break-ins.)
''I'm hopeful, but I don't know what it all would mean,'' said Bayard Kurth, a screen printer from the West Village, another established neighborhood. ''Big greenbelts in the city? Unmonitored places where people do whatever they want? All-day parties there?''
For their part, city officials say the police and firefighters will always serve all Detroit neighborhoods -- even ones where only a few people may be left.
Mr. Bing's hope is that a ''core group'' of neighborhoods connected to downtown, and to the city's spine, Woodward Avenue, will remain, and that the master plan will ultimately help end the exodus of Detroiters.
Lately, Ms. Winters has spent hours meeting with large groups to talk about their concerns, their questions and their doubts over the plans. Last week, clergy members quizzed her; before that, older residents. Later this month, she is to meet with youths, artists, environmental advocates and entrepreneurs.
''It's all very hard,'' Ms. Winters said the other day. ''There's so much weighing on it, we just can't afford to mess up. We've got to get this right, right now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marja M. Winters, a planner for Detroit, has been meeting with community members about the city's plans to focus its resources on select areas.
Detroit intends to encourage residents in some areas to move, but it should not count on the cooperation of some people, among them Luther Gordon. (A14)
 In the blighted east side of Detroit, one home stood derelict last week while another's basement was filled in. The city, its population shrinking, has decided it needs to become smaller. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) GRAPHICS: Steps Toward a New Detroit: Source: City of Detroit: With population continuing to decline, Detroit city officials are mapping out a plan to figure out which neighborhoods are most worthy of future residential investment. As part of his efforts, Mayor Dave Bing is in the process of demolishing 3,000 dangerous residential structures in the city. (Source: City of Detroit) (GRAPHICS BY HAEYOUN PARK/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (73%); CENSUS (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); FLINT, MI, USA (59%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



122 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Fed Minutes Show No Haste to End Stimulus

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve shows few signs of easing its aggressive efforts to stimulate growth before the middle of the year, according to the minutes of the most recent meeting of the central bank's policy-making committee, released on Tuesday. 
While some members of that committee have suggested in recent speeches that the Fed might reconsider its plans to buy $600 billion in Treasury securities by the end of June, the minutes show little evidence that the idea has gained traction among a majority of the 10 officials who sit on the committee.
Indeed, the Fed increasingly seems locked into its current plan -- neither less nor more -- in part because the economic recovery remains tentative and in part because of a stalemate between advocates of less and more.
The minutes portrayed skeptics of the program as increasingly resigned.
''A few members remained uncertain about the benefits of the asset purchase program,'' the minutes said, ''but judged that making changes to the program at this time was not appropriate.''
The Federal Open Market Committee, which meets eight times a year to set monetary policy, has been on a war footing since 2007, authorizing a series of extraordinary efforts to contain the financial crisis and restart growth. The next major decision confronting the committee is when to begin the return to normal.
The minutes make clear that a majority of the committee -- comprising members of the Fed's board of governors and selected presidents of the regional reserve banks -- continues to believe that the economy needs help. Moreover, that majority is portrayed as relatively sanguine about the chances of unleashed inflation.
With so many people out of work, those with jobs have little leverage to demand higher wages. They lack the means to drive up prices. As a result, the Fed regards the recent increases in food and gas prices as unsustainable.
The chairman of the Fed, Ben S. Bernanke, on Monday described the price increases as ''transitory.''
The prospects for the economy, which appeared to be growing strongly at the beginning of the year, also seem increasingly murky. The minutes said the committee viewed the chances of faster growth, and the risk of a slowdown, as ''roughly balanced.''
Evidence of growth is accumulating, including reports of factories planning to hire workers and increase production, and consumers spending more on cars and other goods.
But home prices keep falling and governments at every level are cutting spending. In addition, Europe is ailing, there is a risk that oil prices will continue to rise and the effect of the disaster in Japan is ''not yet clear,'' the minutes said.
The committee next meets April 26.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (85%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (63%); HOME PRICES (62%); GASOLINE PRICES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



123 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Numbers Of Children Of Whites Falling Fast

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- America's population of white children, a majority now, will be in the minority during this decade, sooner than previously expected, according to a new report. 
The Census Bureau had originally forecast that 2023 would be the tipping point for the minority population under the age of 18. But rapid growth among Latinos, Asians and people of more than one race has pushed it earlier, to 2019, according to William Frey, the senior demographer at the Brookings Institution who wrote the report about the shift, which has far-reaching political and policy implications.
The single largest increase was among Hispanics, whose birthrates are far above those of non-Hispanic whites, largely because the white population is aging and proportionally has fewer women in their child-bearing years. The median age of whites is 41, compared with 27 for Hispanics, the report said.
As a result, America's future will include a far more diverse young population, and a largely white older generation. The contrast raises important policy questions. Will the older generation pay for educating a younger generation that looks less like itself? And while the young population is a potential engine of growth for the economy, will it be a burden if it does not have access to adequate education?
The population of white children fell by 4.3 million, or about 10 percent, in the last decade, while the population of Hispanic and Asian children grew by 5.5 million, or about 38 percent, according to the report, which was based on 2010 Census numbers.
The number of African-American children also fell, down by 2 percent. Over all, minorities now make up 46.5 percent of the under-18 population.
Whites are now the minority of child populations in 10 states, double the number from the previous decade, according to the report, and in 35 cities, including Atlanta, Phoenix and Orlando, Fla. Vermont had the largest drop in its child population of any state.
The changes also have political implications. Though whites are still 63 percent of the population as a whole, that is down from 75.6 percent in 1990, and minorities, particularly Hispanics, who now outnumber blacks, are becoming an increasingly important part of the electorate.
Mr. Frey estimates that whites will slip into the minority by about 2041. The number of whites grew by just 1.2 percent in the population as a whole in the last decade, a fraction of the 43 percent growth among Latinos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (79%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); AGING TRENDS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



124 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding Downtown From the Ground Up

BYLINE: By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE

 BODY:
QUINCY, Mass. -- Barring a catastrophe, few cities get the chance to totally rebuild their downtowns, from the sewer lines deep underground to the sidewalks, buildings, parks and lighting above. But an unusual public-private partnership is allowing this city of 91,000, first settled in the early 17th century and famed as the hometown of the Adams presidents, to try to do just that.
The city has approved plans to raze most of its 50-acre center and replace it with $289 million in new infrastructure and $1.3 billion of new private housing, retail, offices, entertainment, hotels and parking. The private builder, Street-Works Development of White Plains, will pay for the public improvements upfront.
Once Street-Works installs the utilities, roadways, parking and landscaping; builds a number of new buildings and leases 50 to 75 percent of the space, the city will assume responsibility for the infrastructure bill by selling general obligations bonds. Some income from the property will flow to the city to cover interest on the debt, amortize the principal and generate extra money for city coffers. 
''We couldn't afford to do this on our own, this quickly,'' Mayor Thomas P. Koch said. But after 30 years of wanting to revitalize a downtown drained of businesses, shopping and housing by outlying neighborhoods, he said, ''we've established a relationship of trust with Street-Works.'' In 2005 the developer started planning what is to be called New Quincy Center. In January it signed a master agreement with the city to codify the plan and set milestones it must meet before Quincy floats the bonds.
This is a reversal of the traditional urban development model, in which municipalities pay for public improvements before the private sector starts construction. And it could be a template in an era when state and federal agencies are retreating from ambitious redevelopment projects.
''In the 21st century, innovative mayors will have to redefine development rules, and it's commendable that this mayor is willing to take the risk,'' said Thomas Murphy, a senior fellow at the Urban Land Institute and a former mayor of Pittsburgh. ''If Quincy succeeds, it's a game changer.''
But the consequences of failure can be significant. In downtown Boston, for instance, there is a gaping block-size hole where Vornado Realty Trust and Gale International halted construction of a large mixed-use project, One Franklin.
''The bigger projects are, the more difficult and fragile they are,'' said George J. Fantini Jr., the chairman of Fantini & Gorga, a commercial real estate mortgage broker based in Boston. ''For a project to succeed, each building has to be feasible in its own right.''
Ken Narva, a partner in Street-Works, said the risk in Quincy was minimized by the city's easy access to mass transit, the broad scope of the project, a strong local economy and the lack of a vital urban center elsewhere on the South Shore. ''We're building a new neighborhood, not a project,'' he said.
The plan is to build, in increments, 3.5 million square feet of new space: 1,200 rental and condominium apartments, 625,000 square feet of retail, two hotels and entertainment; 1.5 million square feet of offices for higher education, health care, professionals and businesses; and parking for 5,500 vehicles.
Ten years of construction will start mid-2012, first on the infrastructure and then in mid-2013 on the buildings. The first group of buildings, 1.3 million square feet valued at about $700 million, will include approximately 300 apartments, 325,000 square feet for retailers, 350,000 square feet of offices, a hotel and parking for about 2,000 cars.
Before construction starts, Street-Works estimates it will have spent $50 million of its own funds, as well as money raised from Quincy Mutual Fire Insurance Company, Ronus Properties of Atlanta and others. For construction financing the developer plans to take the city bond guarantee and its signed leases to the private equity and debt markets for institutional and traditional loans, Mr. Narva said. He and his partner, Richard Heapes, are talking to potential joint venture partners to develop at least 12 of the 25 new buildings with financing they raise themselves.
''The underlying premise is that Quincy is a great location,'' Mr. Narva said. ''Its mass transit is a main driver of value creation.'' Quincy Center has a Red Line subway stop, six stops from downtown Boston and 10 from Cambridge. The city is on a main highway, Interstate 93, and has 27 miles of waterfront. ''The developer is here because of the T stop,'' said Mayor Koch, referring to the transit system, who said he was impressed when he visited Street-Works' Blue Back Square project in West Hartford, Conn. He said he hoped to secure another $50 million in state and federal grants for infrastructure work.
New Quincy Center will offer what many empty nesters and young workers say they prefer: a walkable, urban place to live, work and play. But this type of overhaul would not succeed everywhere, said Gregory Bialecki, the state secretary of housing and economic development.
It may work here because Quincy is willing to make a big financial commitment; the developer has a long-term plan with the flexibility to survive a few market cycles; and since the fall of 2009 the regional South Shore economy has performed well, creating jobs in sectors that are driving the overall state economy like health care, higher education and financial services. Further, Mr. Bialecki said, ''that everyone has skin in the game from the start is a strong sign it will work.''
Whether it does, ''rests on how much space Quincy can absorb'' said Gleb Nechayev, an economist with CBRE Econometric Advisors. Because Quincy added 6.8 percent more housing units and 4.8 percent more residents from 2000 to 2010, he said, ''the project has a good chance of success.''
By mid-2013, the Quincy region is expected to return to peak employment, with the jobless rate dipping below 7 percent for the first time since early 2009, said Michael Lynch, an economist at IHS Global Insight. ''By the time buildings come online, the economy will be in much better shape to handle them,'' he said.
By early next year Street-Works hopes to have letters of intent for a cinema; at least 300,000 square feet of offices for education, health care and businesses; and 100,000 square feet of large format retailing, Mr. Narva said.
If the plan fails, Mayor Koch said, ''the city walks away with more than it had five years ago.''
If it succeeds, Mr. Narva said, ''we'll feel good about creating a great urban place and make a lot of money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Thomas P. Koch, center, with the developers Richard Heapes, left, and Ken Narva, right, in Hancock Cemetery in Quincy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); NEW ISSUES (75%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); APPROVALS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (69%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (60%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (50%)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (62%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



125 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: A Lopsided Proposal For Medicare

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com; twitter.com/DLeonhardt

 BODY:
The Republican budget released on Tuesday is a daring one in many ways. Above all, it would replace the current Medicare with a system of private health insurance plans subsidized by the government. Whether you like or loathe that idea, it would undeniably reduce Medicare's long-term funding gap -- which is by far the biggest source of looming federal deficits.
Yet there is at least one big way in which the plan isn't daring at all. It asks for a whole lot of sacrifice from everyone under the age of 55 and little from everyone 55 and over. Representative Paul Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican who wrote the plan, calls the budget deficit an ''existential threat'' to the United States. Then he absolves more than one-third of all adults from responsibility in dealing with that threat. 
This decision doesn't make him unique in Washington. There is nearly a bipartisan consensus that any cuts to Medicare and Social Security should spare the baby boomers and the elderly. And, certainly, retirees or people on the verge of retirement shouldn't have their benefits changed radically. But the consensus, like Mr. Ryan's plan, goes too far.
The reason is partly political. Older people vote in larger numbers than younger adults. Children, of course, can't vote at all. But beyond politics, Washington's age bias depends on a basic misunderstanding of the budget -- namely, that older people have already paid for their Medicare benefits.
They haven't. For most Americans, Medicare resembles a giant welfare program. They receive far more in government benefits than they ever pay in taxes and premiums. The gap for a typical household runs to several hundreds of thousands of dollars.
The Ryan plan would let anyone who turns 65 before 2022 continue to be part of this hugely popular welfare program. In fact, Mr. Ryan would scrap the common-sense attempts to slow costs in last year's health bill, like the baby steps to base Medicare coverage decisions more on medical evidence. If you're 55 or older, you get the same old Medicare, with its same soaring budget.
If you're under 55, you are excluded. You will instead receive a government subsidy to buy private insurance, and the subsidy will probably not keep pace with future increases in health costs.
Beside violating basic notions of fairness, the grandfather clause has the potential to slow economic growth. Many of today's 55- and 60-year-olds are going to be on Medicare for a long time. If the program doesn't change, they will run up trillions of dollars in medical bills. That money won't be available for education, early child care, scientific research or high-tech infrastructure -- all of which can lift growth.
The United States already has a ''particularly strong age bias'' in its government spending, Julia B. Isaacs of the Brookings Institution noted in a recent analysis of affluent countries' budgets. In the years ahead, spending on the elderly has the potential to rise higher still and to crowd out spending on the young.
Eugene Steuerle, a former Treasury official in both Democratic and Republican administrations, says simply, ''We have a budget for a declining nation.''
Mr. Steuerle -- along with his Urban Institute colleague Stephanie Rennane -- has done some of the most careful work comparing Medicare taxes and benefits. They added up all the taxes people at different points on the income spectrum would pay over their working lives and then translated these amounts into a single sum, expressed in today's dollars. Mr. Steuerle and Ms. Rennane likewise added up the value of Medicare benefits (net of premiums) that men and women could expect to receive.
Their results show that no cohort of Americans, with the possible exception of the very affluent, pays enough Medicare taxes and premiums to cover their costs. The gap is growing over time, too.
Two married 66-year-olds with roughly average earnings over their lives will end up paying about $110,000 in dedicated Medicare taxes through the payroll tax, including the portion their employers pay. They can expect to receive about $340,000 in benefits. Two average-earning 56-year-olds will pay about $140,000 and get back about $430,000 in benefits.
Why? By law, Medicare taxes cover mainly hospital bills, not doctors' bills or the cost of drugs. These costs instead must be covered by the general government revenue, but there isn't enough of that revenue. Instead, the government is running deficits -- which is to say, it's borrowing money from individuals and foreign governments and promising that future taxpayers will pay it back.
Who are these future taxpayers who will kindly cover Medicare's shortfall? The same ones who, under the Ryan plan, won't have Medicare for themselves.
A fairer, more fiscally conservative plan would not postpone dealing with Medicare. It would leave in place the cost control measures in the health reform bill and go even further to reward the quality of care rather than the volume. Obviously, these steps would run some risk of restricting good treatments, too. But, remember, we're facing ''an existential threat.'' We can't limit ourselves to solutions without risks.
Next, the federal government would raise taxes. As countries have grown richer over time, they have historically paid higher taxes -- to cover the costs of a strong military, good schools, comfortable retirements and other luxuries that the free market doesn't provide.
Affluent Americans, in particular, can afford higher taxes. They have received far larger raises in recent decades than any other income group, and their tax rates have fallen far more. Yet Mr. Ryan would reduce them further.
Some health economists believe that a combination of higher taxes and more Medicare cost controls can solve the problem. Mr. Ryan does not. And his skepticism is healthy.
To him, the only way to reduce Medicare's cost growth is to stop shielding people from the consequences of their decisions. If they want almost limitless medical treatments, they won't be able to foist the bill on taxpayers, as they do now. They will instead have to buy a generous insurance plan, partly with their own money. The resulting market forces, Mr. Ryan argues, will eventually bring down costs and leave most people better off.
He may well be right that a solution along these lines is ultimately where health care needs to go. But it would be a lot easier to trust in the merits of his plan if he weren't so busy promising 75 million Americans that they will never have to be a part of it.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Reaping More in Benefits Than Paying in Taxes: When today's 56-year-olds retire in 2020, many will receive more Medicare benefits than they paid in taxes for the program. But the amounts those workers receive and pay for Social Security are similar. (Source: Eugene Steuerle and Stephanie Rennane and based on their earlier work with Adam Carasso) (B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); AGING (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); POLITICS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (75%); CHILDREN (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (60%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



126 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Shutdown Looms, Obama Rejects a Stopgap

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama on Tuesday flatly dismissed a short-term Republican plan to keep the federal government operating past Friday as Speaker John A. Boehner sought deeper spending cuts, putting Congress and the White House on a course toward a government shutdown.
Showing some exasperation at the impasse over this year's budget, Mr. Obama appeared at an impromptu White House news conference and said it would be inexcusable if federal agencies were forced to shut their doors beginning Saturday because House Republicans and Senate Democrats could not bridge differences over a relatively small slice of the budget.
''As I've said before, we have now matched the number that the speaker originally sought,'' the president said. ''The only question is whether politics or ideology are going to get in the way of preventing a government shutdown.''
Appearing before television cameras in the Capitol shortly after the president spoke, Mr. Boehner seemed equally determined not to give ground. The speaker, who faces intense pressure from his conservative rank-and-file, said he intended to push for the greatest spending cuts achievable and would not be maneuvered by Democrats into settling for less. 
''We are not going to allow the Senate nor the White House to put us in a box,'' Mr. Boehner said.
The dueling statements followed a White House meeting that produced no compromise after Mr. Boehner upped the ante in the spending fight, suggesting that $40 billion in cuts could be palatable to House Republicans, an amount $7 billion larger than the target number that Democratic lawmakers and the White House had believed was the goal of the negotiations.
The tense bargaining, coming as executive branch agencies took precautionary steps in preparation for closing down after Friday, demonstrated how crucially both sides view the outcome of this budget fight in shaping the ground rules for larger struggles to come over fiscal issues.
Republicans laid down a marker in the next clash on Tuesday as Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican and Budget Committee chairman, unveiled his party's 2012 budget that would cut $5.8 trillion over the next decade by reshaping popular programs like Medicare. It also proposes reducing the top corporate and individual tax rates to 25 percent in what Republicans say is a move to improve American economic competitiveness.
Mr. Obama said he was looking forward to the clash of ideologies over the budget and said part of his mounting frustration regarding the current budget fight was that it dealt with just a fraction of federal spending and was coming when the fiscal year was already half over.
The president said he would not accept the latest Republican proposal for yet another stop-gap funding measure, one that would require cutting $12 billion in spending in exchange for financing the government another week while negotiations continued. The one-week plan also includes at least one of the controversial policy amendments that are as much a sticking point between Republican and Democrats as the number; it features language to bar federal and local financing for abortion services in Washington.
The president urged Congressional leaders to keep meeting and said that if no progress was made, they would be invited back to the White House on Wednesday, with time running very short if the House was to consider a bill by Friday.
''That is not a way to run a government,'' said Mr. Obama, who said he was willing to consider a short extension if Congress needed time to draft an agreed-upon compromise. ''I can't have our agencies making plans based on two-week budgets.''
After their session at the White House, Mr. Boehner, of Ohio, and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, gathered for a second meeting in Mr. Boehner's suite of offices in the Capitol. Aides described it as productive, but they provided no details beyond saying the two lawmakers would be consulting again on budget issues.
Before his meeting with Mr. Boehner, Mr. Reid said he was not optimistic about a potential compromise and suggested that the speaker and other members of the House leadership were being driven by the Tea Party-infused sentiments of many of their new members.
''I hope the Republicans do what the country needs, not what the Tea Party wants,'' Mr. Reid said.
While Appropriations Committee aides have been assembling legislation based on $33 billion in cuts, that proposal has not gone over well with many House Republicans, who have already approved $61 billion in spending reductions for this year and do not appear to want to bend far from that figure.
Several officials familiar with the morning session at the White House said Mr. Boehner had indicated that he could potentially sell spending cuts of about $40 billion to more of his members -- a $7 billion increase from what Democrats viewed as their earlier agreement with the speaker.
According to one person in the room, the president then encouraged Mr. Boehner to ''figure out how to go to your caucus and declare victory. You're already most of the way to where you wanted to go.''
Democrats say they have already made substantial concessions on the level of spending cuts and are now more concerned with protecting essential programs in areas like health, education and employment from steep and disruptive reductions.
One senior Democrat also suggested that if they were to move more in Mr. Boehner's direction on an overall number, Republicans should expect less from Democrats in the way of the numerous policy provisions and restrictions on Obama administration regulatory efforts sought by Republican lawmakers.
Eager to avoid being blamed for a shutdown after a similar event in 1995 was viewed as hurting their party politically, House Republicans on Monday assembled the one-week stop-gap measure that included $12 billion in cuts as well as full Pentagon financing through Sept. 30. In an effort to limit Democratic resistance, Republicans included cuts that Democrats had already agreed to accept, but the tactic did not work.
The House majority leader, Eric Cantor of Virginia, said it remained uncertain if House Republicans would proceed with the legislation if it appeared no compromise was going to be struck.
''Right now, we have to preserve all options,'' he told reporters. ''It seems to me that when the White House and the Senate dismissed this measure out of hand, they're the ones increasing the likelihood now that you are going to see Americans really suffer because of a government shutdown. We are trying to do everything we can to avoid that.''
Mr. Reid said Senate Democrats were also considering legislative steps if talks collapsed, but he would not divulge them.
Congressional officials said no new talks were scheduled, but as Mr. Reid closed down the Senate on Tuesday night, he tried to paint a brighter picture of the situation than he had before his meeting with Mr. Boehner.
''We're not that far apart and hopefully we can work something out,'' he said on the Senate floor. ''So I want everyone to know that the government is not going to be shut down -- yet. There's still air in the tire.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Harry Reid, left, and Speaker John A. Boehner spoke to reporters Tuesday at the Capitol after meeting with the president. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (90%); PAUL RYAN (79%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



127 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 871 words

PERSON: Ned McWherter 

HEADLINE: Ned McWherter, a Tennessee Governor, Dies at 80

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Ned McWherter, a sharecropper's son who as governor of Tennessee cajoled the legislature into passing a sweeping health care overhaul, making it the first state to offer health insurance to every uninsured person who wanted it, died on Monday in Nashville. He was 80.
The cause was cancer, his family said. 
Mr. McWherter, a bear of a man who liked to mention that he was born on the kitchen table in a dirt-floor shack, began his political career as a state legislator advocating the sterilization of welfare mothers, a suggestion he abandoned. As speaker of the House he was credited with being the first legislative leader in the South to appoint a black chairman of a committee.
As governor from 1987 to 1995, Mr. McWherter, a Democrat, pursued a broadly progressive agenda, raising financing for poor school districts and unsuccessfully fighting for a state income tax.
In 1992 and 1993, City and State magazine named Tennessee the best-managed state government. The next year, Governing magazine, which had acquired City and State, called Mr. McWherter the nation's best governor.
His biggest idea was to replace Medicaid, the federal and state financed program that delivers health care to the poor, with a system of managed care. Under Medicaid, doctors and hospitals bill the state for individual procedures. Under Mr. McWherter's system, the state paid a privately run health maintenance organization a fixed fee per patient per month. He persuaded the federal government to let Tennessee opt out of Medicaid.
The idea was that managed care could stem ballooning costs, with the resultant savings used to insure people who had no insurance, including those with pre-existing conditions. People not poor enough to qualify for Medicaid but unable to afford private insurance were accepted.
The plan worked initially, saving more than $2 billion and giving Tennessee the highest percentage of insured citizens in the country. The number of participants increased to 1.3 million from 800,000.
But lawsuits, mismanagement, increasing costs and fraud forced succeeding governors to make deep cuts in expenditures and enrollment. Former President Bill Clinton said in a 2004 interview that Tennessee was also hurt by a lack of federal support.
''Ultimately, I believe the nation will have a medical coverage plan that will look like TennCare,'' Mr. Clinton told The Jackson Sun, a Tennessee newspaper. Using Mr. McWherter's middle name, Mr. Clinton added, ''Ned Ray blazed a trail here.''
Cyril F. Chang, a University of Memphis economist, wrote in the journal Managed Care in 2007 that TennCare gave ''better care to more people than traditional Medicaid while solving the state's chronic crisis in its health care budget.'' The later problems, he wrote, came from inexperience managed care organizations and the state's lack of fiscal control. The system now has fewer participants and less financing.
Ned Ray McWherter was born on a farm between Little Zion and Palmersville, Tenn., on Oct. 15, 1930. He attended a one-room school with a wood-burning stove. When he was in the fifth grade, the family moved to Dresden, Tenn., where they ran a restaurant called the Hotdog. Ned was captain of his high school football team and senior class vice president, and then attended several universities before dropping out to work in a shoe factory for $18.90 a week. He became a traveling shoe salesman.
He ended up joining with partners to start a shoe business, beginning a career in which he made millions in trucking, beer wholesaling, nursing homes and investments. In his first race for the Tennessee House, in 1968, he was unopposed. He was elected speaker of the House after two two-year terms and served for 14 years in the post, a record.
In 1986, after 18 years in the House, Mr. McWherter beat a popular former governor, Winfield Dunn, a Republican. The 270-pound Mr. McWherter ended each campaign event with the folksy promise that he would need only four vanilla wafers and a cup of coffee to throw himself into gubernatorial work each day. Building things, particularly. His slogan was ''Schools plus roads equals jobs.''
The governor, who won a second term in 1990, was good at getting help from Washington, not least because of his friendship with Mr. Clinton, who had known him as a fellow Southern governor when Mr. Clinton was governor of Arkansas. ''No matter how crazy it would get in Washington,'' Mr. Clinton said, ''I could talk to him and feel good again.''
Mr. McWherter left the governorship because of Tennessee law limiting governors to two terms. He was appointed to the Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service by President Clinton and pursued his business interests.
Mr. McWherter's wife, the former Bette Jean Beck, died in 1973. He is survived by a son, Michael Ray McWherter, who lost the race for governor of Tennessee last year; a stepdaughter, Linda Ramsey; two grandchildren; and two step-grandchildren.
Mr. McWherter's friends delighted in his pithy sayings, calling them ''Ned-isms.'' A favorite: ''No matter your fame and glory, remember that the number of people at your funeral will depend on the weather.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Ned McWherter of Tennessee, left, introducing Phil Bredesen, the mayor of Nashville at the time, at a rally in 1994. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK HUMPHREY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); CANCER (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); LITIGATION (61%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (53%); INCOME TAX (53%)

BILL CLINTON (79%); PHIL BREDESEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



128 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: THE BUDGET BATTLES: Republicans Maneuver Toward a Shutdown

 BODY:
The House Republicans on Tuesday made it clear to anyone who had missed it that they are not interested in a deal on the current federal budget. In a meeting at the White House, they rejected a deal to get through the next six months. President Obama, silent for too long on this fight, emerged from the meeting to say that he would tolerate no more ideological gamesmanship. But the Republicans, if anything, only increased their demands, and a government shutdown seemed likely to begin on Friday. 
That the Republicans are not interested simply in reducing the deficit was made clear when the House Budget Committee chairman, Paul Ryan, released his budget plan for 2012 on the same day as the talks to finish the 2011 budget were falling apart. It was less a budget-balancing effort than a press release for the 2012 elections. Similarly, the party's refusal to accept Mr. Obama's overly generous budget offer for this year makes clear that its leaders prefer a shutdown to abandoning their ideological crusade to abolish their least favorite government programs.
If their goal was to reduce spending, they would have accepted the Democrats' offer to cut $33 billion out of the budget for the next six months -- the same amount as Republican leaders had originally requested before Tea Party members forced them to double it earlier this year. As the president noted, that offer constitutes the largest cut to domestic discretionary spending in history.
But Speaker John Boehner and his negotiating team have continually moved the end zone. They spurned the specific cuts proposed by the Democrats because they did not end the programs reviled by the Republicans, including education improvements, health care reform and infrastructure rebuilding. They now want a total of $40 billion, a target that just emerged on Tuesday.
After meeting with the Republicans, Mr. Obama suggested with some bitterness that they were still trying to score political points, demanding victories on abortion or gutting environmental regulation to keep the government open. He made it clear that that was not acceptable, and neither are demands to cut 60,000 Head Start teaching positions, or medical research, or other items that are vital to many Americans and the fragile economic recovery.
There will still be a few more meetings before the shutdown deadline, but leaders on both sides say they are more pessimistic about reaching agreement. The public may need to rely on the pain of an actual shutdown to bring radical House lawmakers back to reality.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (68%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (63%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



129 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: White House Assails Pakistan Effort on Militants

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration on Tuesday gave Congress a harshly critical assessment of Pakistan's efforts to defeat Al Qaeda and other militants, saying that after years of work with the Pakistani military ''there remains no clear path toward defeating the insurgency'' that thrives in the country.
That conclusion, buried in a 38-page report on the state of the war in Afghanistan and the efforts to defeat Al Qaeda in Pakistan, comes just three months before President Obama is scheduled to announce the pace at which American troops will be withdrawn from Afghanistan. It amounts to a concession that the effort to match Mr. Obama's ''surge'' of troops in Afghanistan with a new strategy to squeeze Al Qaeda and the Taliban from the Pakistani side of the border has yielded virtually no results. 
For more than a year American officials have expressed frustration with the slow pace of the Pakistani effort, which was further complicated by the devastating floods there last summer. But rarely have they gone public with the scope of those frustrations. The report issued Tuesday was not accompanied by any public statement by Mr. Obama, who, like President Bush before him, has been loath to publicly criticize the efforts of Pakistan.
But the report states clearly what many administration and Pentagon officials have long said in private: Without pressure from the Pakistani side of the border, it is virtually impossible to wipe out the strongholds of Taliban or Al Qaeda, except through American-led Predator strikes from the air.
The report noted that an effort by the Pakistani military to clear militants from Mohmand, a part of the tribal areas in northwest Pakistan, was failing for the third time in two years. The failure was ''a clear indicator of the inability of the Pakistan military and government to render cleared areas resistant to insurgency return,'' the report said.
The country cannot keep its helicopters flying, the report said, and is reluctant ''to accept U.S.-provided helicopter maintenance teams,'' part of a broader concern about letting American troops operate openly on the ground in Pakistan.
''What remains vexing is the lack of any indication of 'hold' and 'build' planning or staging efforts to complement ongoing clearing operations,'' the report concluded. ''As such, there remains no clear path toward defeating the insurgency in Pakistan, despite the unprecedented and sustained deployment of over 147,000 forces,'' and the deaths of 2,575 Pakistani troops since 2001.
The report also lamented the fact that four coordination centers operated by American, Pakistani and Afghan troops are up and running on the Afghan side of the border, but none are yet operating on the Pakistan side, despite a pledge in 2009 from Pakistan to do so.
Independent experts on Pakistan as well as Congressional aides said the report's assessment was more critical of Pakistan's counterinsurgency abilities than analyses in two earlier reports, which the administration sends to Congress every six months.
''It's pretty tough,'' said one Senate staff member who read the report on Tuesday afternoon. ''It does sound like an expression of frustration that goes beyond previous reports.''
In the past, the administration has praised the Pakistani efforts to carry out offensive operations against Taliban and other insurgents in six of the seven tribal areas -- all except North Waziristan -- but has chided the civilian government and military high command to do more.
In a report to Congress last September, the last before this week's, the administration essentially gave Pakistan's counterterrorism operations a pass, citing the effects of the floods that crippled much of the country. The disaster diverted Pakistani troops from conducting counterterrorism operations near the Afghan border, to delivering flood relief, for several months.
The September report sought to find a silver lining in the cataclysm, noting that the military's rescue and relief efforts ''have positive effects on vesting the population with the national government, especially when those impacted citizens are in areas that are also facing threats from insurgents.''
An administration official on Tuesday acknowledged the critical appraisal of Pakistan's efforts to combat its militancy -- an effort the United States pays more than $1 billion a year to support -- but the official cautioned that the American assessment was ''a snapshot in time.''
''This particular snapshot wraps up challenges that we've talked about piecemeal over several months,'' said the administration official, who was not authorized to speak on the record about the report. ''In this case, we didn't see a clear path toward defeating the insurgency in Pakistan.''
But the official emphasized that the critique was not a forecast of worse to come. He pointed out, for example, that the report also noted that Pakistan's troops in the northwestern and southwestern parts of the country were cooperating more closely with Afghan and NATO troops on the other side of the border in Afghanistan.
The report also painted a grim portrait of the country's financial well-being. ''As a result of political gridlock, the government continues to be unable to develop consensus on difficult economic and fiscal reforms that are urgently required, including systemic tax reform,'' the report concluded.
What steps the government of President Asif Ali Zardari has taken are not likely to be enough to win the confidence of international donors and the International Monetary Fund, which have been urging wide-ranging changes to shore up the faltering economy.
''The deterioration of Pakistan's economy and slow progress on economic reforms poses the greatest threat to Pakistan's stability over the medium term,'' the report said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American soldiers returned fire last year in eastern Afghanistan, near the border with Pakistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAFIQ MAQBOOL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); HELICOPTERS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



130 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: A Conservative Vision, With Bipartisan Risks

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The audacious long-term budget path that House Republicans outlined on Tuesday is not going to become law anytime soon, if ever. Senate Democrats and President Obama will see to that.
Even so, the plan rolled out by the Republican majority in the House figures to shake up this year's already contentious budget debate as well as next year's presidential politics. By its mix of deep cuts in taxes and domestic spending, and its shrinkage of the American safety net, the plan sets the conservative parameter of the debate over the nation's budget priorities further to the right than at any time since the modern federal government began taking shape nearly eight decades ago.
The ambitions of the first budget rolled out by the new House Budget Committee chairman, Representative Paul D. Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, cannot be understated. It poses huge political risks for Republican candidates for Congress and for the White House in 2012. After Republicans successfully campaigned in last year's midterm elections partly by criticizing Democrats for cutting Medicare as part of Mr. Obama's health-care overhaul, they now propose to eventually privatize Medicare and turn Medicaid into a sharply limited block grant to states. 
Because details remain sparse, the Congressional Budget Office could not estimate precisely the potential savings for Mr. Ryan's plan, which the Republican-controlled House Budget Committee is expected to approve Wednesday. House Republicans say the budget would cut $5.8 trillion from projected spending in the 10 years through the 2021 fiscal year, and $6.2 trillion more than Mr. Obama's budget would. But the Republican projections could not be independently confirmed. Longer term, the budget office said, the plan would allow the government to run a surplus by 2040.
The Republican plan also would slash individual and corporate income taxes by more than $4 trillion below current projections, somewhat offsetting the spending cuts and limiting the overall reduction in the deficit. Details on tax cuts and the closing of loopholes would ultimately be filled in by committees with jurisdiction over domestic programs and taxes.
Under the Ryan plan, military spending would not be cut any more than the $78 billion in cuts President Obama has proposed.
''Washington has not been telling you the truth,'' Mr. Ryan said in a short video making the case for bold action. ''If we don't reform spending on government health and retirement programs, we have zero hope of getting our spending -- and as a result our debt crisis -- under control.''
His plan would go beyond the bold packages recommended in December by bipartisan majorities of two separate debt-reduction panels -- Mr. Obama's 2010 fiscal commission, which was headed by Erskine Bowles, a Democrat and former White House chief of staff, and former Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and the commission headed by the former longtime Republican chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, Pete V. Domenici, and Alice Rivlin, former director of the Congressional and White House budget offices.
It also would go further in shrinking government and cutting taxes than the changes that Congressional Republicans proposed in the mid-1990s after they last took control of the House -- a showdown that ended to the advantage of Democrats.
The House Republicans' proposal poses challenges for Mr. Obama as well. Many Democratic strategists, including some inside the White House and the president's re-election campaign, see mostly opportunity: Pleasantly surprised that Republicans have defined themselves so far to the right, they see a chance for Mr. Obama to stake out a middle ground.
But with Republicans describing their move as a bold leadership stroke, their boast has the potential to feed a budding narrative -- that Mr. Obama has declined to lead in proposing the steps needed to rein in a federal debt that is growing unsustainably as the population ages and health care costs keep rising.
Mr. Obama, in an unexpected appearance before reporters Tuesday at the White House, said the Ryan plan ensured that Republicans and Democrats would have ''very sharply contrasting visions in terms of where we should move the country.''
''I'm looking forward to having that conversation,'' he added.
The White House later issued a harsher statement from the press secretary Jay Carney.
The Ryan plan, it said, ''cuts taxes for millionaires and special interests while placing a greater burden on seniors who depend on Medicare or live in nursing homes, families struggling with a child who has serious disabilities, workers who have lost their health care coverage, and students and their families who rely on Pell grants.''
''The president believes there is a more balanced way to put America on a path to prosperity,'' the statement said.
Administration officials gave no hint that Mr. Obama planned to spell out that balanced approach. The 10-year budget he outlined in February did not tackle the fast-growing entitlement costs -- for Medicare, Medicaid and, to a far lesser extent, Social Security -- that are driving long-term projections of the debt. While proposing major changes to Medicaid and Medicare, Mr. Ryan also declined to propose changes to Social Security, reflecting Republicans' wariness of alienating older voters.
Deficit hawks in both parties praised Mr. Ryan for the breadth of the plan. But they criticized him for not proposing to cut military spending more or to raise tax revenues.
Like the Bowles-Simpson fiscal commission and other bipartisan groups, Mr. Ryan would eliminate many, though unspecified, income tax breaks to generate greater federal income. But unlike the other groups, he would use the new revenues only to lower tax rates to a maximum 25 percent for individuals and corporations, down from 35 percent. Again, details would be left to the appropriate legislative committees. The other deficit study groups would devote some revenues to reducing deficits.
''Because Ryan decided to basically ignore defense and not use any of the reduction in tax expenditures to reduce the deficit, it does place a disproportionately adverse effect on other parts of the budget,'' Mr. Bowles said in an interview, including ''the things that I think are important to protect the truly disadvantaged.''
Mr. Ryan was a member of the Bowles-Simpson panel but, like the other two House Republicans in the group, he opposed its recommendations for more than $4 trillion in 10-year savings for not going far enough in reducing health care spending.
His plan underscores just how much the influx of Republican newcomers to the House, many of them Tea Party adherents, have hardened conservatism there.
In the past two years, House Republicans distanced themselves from a similar plan that Mr. Ryan proposed. Even after the midterm elections in November, when he was in line to become budget committee chairman, Mr. Ryan said in an interview that he probably would have to moderate his proposals to win other Republicans' backing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama said the Ryan plan ensured that both parties would have ''sharply contrasting visions'' of the nation's future. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC: How $5.8 Trillion Breaks Down: House Republicans have proposed $5.8 trillion in spending cuts over the next decade. (Source: House Budget Committee) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); MEDICARE (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); APPROVALS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); CORPORATE DEBT (67%); INCOME TAX (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); MEDICAID (54%); GRANTS & GIFTS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PAUL RYAN (79%); ERSKINE BOWLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



131 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; A SPECIAL SECTION: DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Scarred by the Dot-Com Bust, Reinvented for Social Media

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO
THOMAS WEISEL doesn't have much personal experience with social media. He has never opened a Facebook or Twitter account, and he has resisted buying an iPhone.
But Mr. Weisel knows a lot about overheated markets. His firm, Thomas Weisel Partners Group, was a dominant force in taking technology companies public during the dot-com boom and was hobbled when that bubble burst in 2000.
Today, Mr. Weisel, 70, is assessing the industry landscape from his corner office at Stifel Financial Corporation, the brokerage firm that bought his struggling company in April 2010. Although the current frenzy raises concerns, he says he thinks it is unfair to compare Internet stocks during the late 1990s to social media companies now. 
''In a sentence, the big difference is these companies, in many cases, are enormously profitably out of the gate,'' he said.
Mr. Weisel -- who as co-chairman of Stifel's board is still out hustling banking business -- is among the many heavyweights from the dot-com days who are reinventing themselves in the era of social media.
Mary Meeker, the research analyst who was called the Queen of the Internet, recently joined the venture capital giant Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. Frank Quattrone, the Wall Street investment banker who helped take Amazon.com public in 1997, now has his own boutique advisory group working with technology start-ups and stalwarts, including National Semiconductor on its recent deal with Texas Instruments. Sandy Robertson, previously a founder of Robertson Stephens, a technology banking firm, joined Francisco Partners, a private equity shop that focuses on technology.
Lise Buyer, a former Credit Suisse First Boston analyst who currently advises companies on potential public offerings at her firm Class V Group, jokes that she is ''running into everyone'' she knew from the go-go period of the late 1990s.
These veterans offer a unique perspective, having survived the previous technology craze and now playing a role in the current one.
''Social media is a new frontier,'' said Mr. Robertson.
Mr. Weisel, a Rochester, Minn., native who was once a competitive speed skater, rose to fame during the technology boom. In the early 1990s, he ran Montgomery Securities, one of the boutique banks known as the Four Horsemen that dominated technology underwriting during the decade. During his tenure, Mr. Weisel took Yahoo public and helped orchestrate StrataCom's sale to Cisco for $4.7 billion, at the time the largest technology acquisition that year.
After NationsBank bought Montgomery in 1997, he struck out on his own, starting Thomas Weisel Partners. He quickly landed a number of big assignments, including advising Yahoo on its acquisition of GeoCities.
But like many at the time, Mr. Weisel was swept up in the frenzy. In an interview in January 2000, he declared the tech boom was ''the Super Bowl of all Super Bowls.'' Just a couple months later, the bubble burst -- a crushing blow to his firm.
In the aftermath, Mr. Weisel tried to diversify his firm away from technology, which accounted for more than 80 percent of revenue. He expanded into health care and consumer products. To raise capital, he took Thomas Weisel public in 2006.
But the firm never really recovered from the dot-com bust, and in 2010, it was sold to Stifel Financial.
His experience over the last decade has influenced his view. While he remains bullish on technology broadly, he says social media stocks are far from a slam dunk.
''They have great potential, but they have to continue to produce,'' said Mr. Weisel.
After years of managing, Mr. Weisel is happy to play the role of sage counsel. He regularly meets with technology entrepreneurs and executives, to help Stifel Financial land deals.
The notable difference this time is the underlying business models of many companies, he says. Technology costs are minimal, which allows social networking sites to be profitable almost immediately. During the dot-com boom, companies burned through cash and took years to turn a profit -- if they did at all.
''For the most part, these are real companies with real revenue and are generating real cash flow,'' he said.
Even so, Mr. Weisel says it is critical for companies like Groupon -- which is said to be valued at roughly $25 billion -- to maintain their leadership position.
''First-mover advantage is key,'' said Mr. Weisel. ''If they don't continue to produce, someone next door will come in and build a better mouse trap.''
He points to MySpace as a cautionary tale. In 2006, it was the top social networking site, with users topping 50 million that year, according to the research firm comScore. But it has steadily ceded ground since then to Facebook, which claims 150.7 million users today vs. 37.7 million for MySpace. Its current owner, News Corporation, recently put MySpace on the auction block.
Mr. Weisel is also watching valuations. Companies like Facebook, which is worth an estimated $50 billion, may not be able to justify such numbers unless their strategies evolve and they find new sources of profit.
''Right now, these business models are typically brand new and not fully vetted,'' said Mr. Weisel. ''They have to figure how to continue to monetize the traffic they are getting or valuations will fall off.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BEEN THERE: Thomas Weisel scouted technology start-ups in the 1990s and is doing so again. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETAILERS (86%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%)

COMPANY: THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (85%); STIFEL FINANCIAL CORP (71%); KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (67%); FACEBOOK INC (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (54%); AMAZON.COM INC (54%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (54%)

TICKER: SF (NYSE) (71%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (67%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (67%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, MN, USA (52%) MINNESOTA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



132 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; A SPECIAL SECTION: DEALBOOK; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Deals Creep Back, Though Not Yet to the Mega Level

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
BIGGER deals are back.
Despite a series of potential shocks to the global economy, deal makers just completed their strongest quarter since before the financial crisis. And with that robust start, capped by AT&T's $39 billion bid for T-Mobile USA, many bankers are hopeful that the revival will pick up speed.
As if to confirm that, another batch of deals was announced just after the quarter ended on March 31, including Vivendi's $11.3 billion buyout of Vodafone's stake in SFR of France, an $11.3 billion rival bid for NYSE Euronext by the Nasdaq OMX Group and IntercontinentalExchange, and Texas Instruments' $6.5 billion takeover of National Semiconductor. 
The dollar volume of mergers struck in the first quarter jumped 54.7 percent from the same time a year ago, to $799.8 billion, according to data from Thomson Reuters.
The overall number of deals fell about 5 percent, to 9,600, Thomson Reuters said. But the real story lay in the number of deals over $5 billion, which made up a little more than 41 percent of all mergers in the quarter.
''With regards to the size and types of transactions, more is being permitted now by shareholders than we've seen in a while,'' said Paul Parker, Barclays Capital's head of global mergers and acquisitions.
North America still has the largest slice of the deal-making pie for the quarter, accounting for $408.3 billion worth of mergers, or about 51 percent. But deals in emerging markets grew to about a quarter of the total, at $196.3 billion.
Buyers from rising industrial powers, including China, India and Brazil, are likely to continue looking beyond their borders for natural resources. This week, Minmetals Resources, a publicly traded unit of a Chinese state-owned mining company, offered $6.5 billion for Equinox Minerals of Canada in an effort to buy a major producer of copper.
By many measures, the ingredients for deal-making remain in place. The stock markets have largely shrugged off unforeseen events like the market flash crash of last May and the Japanese earthquake and tsunami of last month, helping to establish a steady line for stock prices.
Companies remain flush with cash that they began stockpiling in late 2008; some $1.9 trillion is in American corporate coffers, according to the Federal Reserve. (Most of that cash is being held abroad, however, and for tax reasons companies may choose not to spend it on deals in the United States.)
Management teams have shown more confidence in pursuing new avenues of growth that complement their existing businesses, although several conglomerates -- among them Sara Lee, ITT and Fortune Brands -- have chosen to break themselves into parts to focus on a few operations.
''Strategic acquirers are reinforcing their core business,'' Antonio Weiss, the global head of investment banking at Lazard, said at the Tulane Corporate Law Institute last week. ''You don't see a lot of diversifying transactions.''
Another measure of growing corporate confidence is the unsolicited or hostile deal. Like Nasdaq and ICE in their bid for NYSE, or Valeant Pharmaceuticals International in its $5.7 billion hostile bid for Cephalon, rebuffed suitors have shown a willingness to mount a fight and press forward, hoping to find shareholders willing to sell.
Cheap financing remains widely available as interest rates stay near record lows, and debt investors continue to buy up riskier loans and bonds in pursuit of better yields. Nowhere was this clearer than in JPMorgan Chase's $20 billion loan to AT&T to help it finance its T-Mobile deal. It was the largest loan ever by a single originating bank.
But JPMorgan was also confident that it could quickly sell off pieces to other banks to help lower the risk on its own books, and it syndicated the loan in a matter of days.
The preponderance of cheap debt has also supported buyout firms, which struck $51.4 billion worth of deals during the first quarter. Deal makers are still breathlessly awaiting the return of megabuyouts over $10 billion -- a level not attained since the Blackstone Group's $25 billion takeover of Hilton Hotels nearly four years ago.
Buyout firms have been getting closer: Blackstone spent $9.4 billion to acquire the American assets of Centro Properties in February. This week, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts agreed to buy Pfizer's capsule-making business for $2.4 billion, while Apax Partners agreed to buy two software companies for about $2 billion.
More private equity deals are likely to be in the offing. K.K.R. executives told public investors last month that the firm had more than $11 billion in untapped capital to spend on buyouts.
''That is incredible capital to take advantage of the opportunities we see in private equity around the globe,'' Alexander Navab, the firm's co-head of North American private equity, said at a meeting with investors last month.
But the pace of their deals may be slowed if strategic buyers fully re-emerge as competitors. During the buyout boom, private equity firms were often the only bidders in big auctions.
The uptick in announced deals has also benefited the bankers who put them together. Fees from mergers and acquisitions grew 3.3 percent in the first quarter from the same time last year, to $7.1 billion. That accounted for about a third of all investment banking fees for the quarter, according to Thomson Reuters.
But the sunny outlook is not without some clouds. While continued unrest in the Middle East has not yet dented the pace of deal-making, advisers caution that the uprisings may spread. Rising prices of commodities like oil and cotton could also weigh on corporate profits, making companies more hesitant to spend.
And the European sovereign debt crisis, which has hung over the Continent for more than a year, may again resurface as a serious threat to corporate confidence.
Deal makers almost universally profess to seeing a continued increase in deal-making, but a gradual one, with no sharp jumps in volume and numbers. So far, they say, their backlogs of pending transactions appear to bear that out.
''People are upbeat, and while it gets sometimes overused, 'cautiously optimistic' is a great description,'' said Robert E. Spatt, a partner at the law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS
MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS: TOP FINANCIAL ADVISERS First quarter
worldwide
TOP LEGAL ADVISERS: First quarter
worldwide (Source: Thomson Reuters)
 MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS: BIGGEST DEALS (Source: Thomson Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); MINES & MINING (67%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (62%); TSUNAMIS (50%)

COMPANY: T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (58%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (57%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (57%); VIVENDI (57%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (57%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (56%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%); MMG LTD (53%); BEAM INC (50%)

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (57%); NYX (PAR) (57%); NYX (NYSE) (57%); VIV (PAR) (57%); VIV (BIT) (57%); ICE (NYSE) (57%); TXN (NASDAQ) (57%); 1208 (HKSE) (53%); BEAM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (53%); NAICS551114 CORPORATE, SUBSIDIARY & REGIONAL MANAGING OFFICES (50%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS337110 WOOD KITCHEN CABINET & COUNTERTOP MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



133 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Why Pay Congress?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
If we careen over a cliff on Friday and the American government shuts down, hard-working federal workers will stop getting paychecks, but the members of Congress responsible for the shutdown are expected to be paid as usual.
That's partly because Congressional pay is not subject to the regular appropriations process, and partly because of Constitutional concerns. The Senate passed a bill proposed by Barbara Boxer of California that would suspend Congressional paychecks in any government shutdown, but the Republican-controlled House has blocked it. House Republicans approved a similar pay suspension, but it was embedded in legislation that has zero chance of becoming law.
The upshot is that federal workers who do important work for the public -- cleaning up toxic waste, enrolling sick people into lifesaving medical trials, answering medical hot lines, running national parks, processing passport applications -- risk being sent home and going unpaid. But members of Congress would continue to receive $174,000 a year. As the humorist Andy Borowitz wrote in a Twitter message: ''That's like eliminating the fire dept & sending checks to the arsonists.'' 
In my travels lately, I've been trying to explain to Libyans, Egyptians, Bahrainis, Chinese and others the benefits of a democratic system. But if Congressional Republicans actually shut down the government this weekend, they will be making a powerful argument for autocracy. Chinese television will be all over the story.
If a high school student council refused to approve a budget so that student activities had to be canceled -- even as student leaders continued to pay themselves stipends -- a school board would probably cancel the entire experiment in student democracy. But I can't imagine high school students acting so immature.
Some Republicans seem motivated to accept a government shutdown not only by a terror of the Tea Party wing of their party but also by a profound misunderstanding of fiscal policy.
''Our generation's greatest challenge,'' Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a Republican, declared in an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal the other day, ''is an economy that isn't growing, alongside a national debt that is.''
A fair number of Republicans share that sentiment, so let's take a closer look. To nitpick, it's factually wrong. The economy has been growing since the third quarter of 2009. The larger point is true. The economy is still sputtering, unemployment is too high and debt is growing.
But one of the most basic principles of economics is that when an economy is anemic, governments should use deficit spending as a fiscal stimulus, even though that means an increase in debt. If Senator Rubio believes that the response to a weak economy is to slash spending, he is embracing the approach that Herbert Hoover discredited 80 years ago.
Republicans are correct that debt matters and that we need to address America's long-term deficits. That means trimming entitlement programs and reducing the rise in health care spending that is eroding their viability; we also probably need some tax increases. But while our long-term need is to rein in deficit spending, our short-term need is to boost it. That's why sensible budget plans involve a short-term stimulus combined with long-term trims that take effect when the economy is healthy again.
The Republican plan to address debt right now, in an economic trough, echoes the horrendous mistake Japan made in the mid-1990s just as it was emerging from its own deep recession. Japan collapsed right back into what became its ''lost decade'' and now realizes that it should have nurtured a recovery before addressing its debt problem.
I was living in Japan then and referred to the prime minister on the front page of The New York Times as ''Herbert Hoover'' Hashimoto. So it only seems fair to refer now, if the shutdown occurs, to the current speaker of the House as ''Herbert Hoover'' Boehner.
Imagine how disastrous it would be if the Republicans shut down government for any length of time. Unpaid federal employees would cut back on shopping. Some would miss house payments. Family members might drop out of college. The I.R.S. might not be able to deliver some tax refunds. Small businesses would stop getting government loans. In sum, after the Democratic stimulus, we would have the Republican drag.
Republicans are also threatening to refuse to raise the government debt ceiling. By July, that could mean a default on U.S. government bonds. The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben Bernanke, says that would be ''catastrophic,'' and Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner warns that we could see ''a financial crisis potentially more severe than the crisis from which we are only now starting to recover.''
All this seems mind-bogglingly petty and pusillanimous. If members of Congress shut down government and trigger a new financial crisis, then they shouldn't just have their own pay docked. They should also learn the discipline of a market economy and be fired by the public that they are betraying.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (68%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ARSON (66%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (55%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

PERSON: BARBARA BOXER (57%); MARCO RUBIO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



134 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; A SPECIAL SECTION: DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: The Barons of Two Booms

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
Other major Wall Street players from the dot-com bubble have reinvented themselves.
Sandy Robertson
THEN A founder of the boutique bank Robertson Stephens, he proclaimed in 1999 that tech companies were the most expensive stocks ever. 
NOW While he wonders if sites like Facebook are the modern equivalent of the defunct citizens' band radio, Mr. Robertson, an executive at the private equity firm Francisco Partners and a director at the software company Salesforce.com, sees great potential.
Mary Meeker
THEN As an analyst for the investment bank Morgan Stanley, Ms. Meeker was referred to as the Queen of the Internet for her bullish investment calls on technology companies like Amazon.com and eBay.
NOW Ms. Meeker left her perch at Morgan Stanley in late 2010 to join Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the San Francisco-based venture capital firm. An investor in the start-ups Groupon and Zynga, the firm recently introduced a $250 million social media fund. Henry Blodget
THEN Once a high-flying technology analyst at Merrill Lynch whose stock recommendations often moved the market, Mr. Blodget was accused by regulators of issuing positive ratings on stocks in public while deriding them in private e-mails. As part of a settlement, he was barred from the securities industry.
NOW Mr. Blodget is currently the editor and chief executive of The Business Insider, a gossipy news site that covers Wall Street. He currently has more than 28,000 followers on Twitter. SUSANNE CRAIG

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); INTERNET PRIVACY (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (83%); FACEBOOK INC (58%); SALESFORCE.COM INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); GROUPON INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%); CRM (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (57%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



135 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: House Hunting in ... Budapest

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
A LOFT IN A RESTORED FACTORY BUILDING ON THE DANUBE
$932,570
In a soaring stone and brick factory from 1914, this two-bedroom loft apartment looks west onto the Danube and heavily wooded Margaret Island, with the rolling Buda hills as a backdrop. The unit is north of the center of Budapest, where most foreigners buy apartments, but as part of the RiverLoft condominium complex, it offers extras like a gym, a swimming pool, a parking garage, a garden courtyard and 24-hour doormen.
The 2,130-square-foot apartment in Budapest's 13th District is on the second floor of a four-story gabled structure that had previous lives as a gas pipe fittings factory and a military hospital, said Zoltan Mezo, managing director of the Budapest office of At Home Network. The building, half of it offices along with 27 lofts, was restored in 2008 by internationally known architect Zoltan Tima and GTC Hungary Real Estate Development.
The spacious open living area with 14-foot concrete ceilings retains the factory's untreated brick walls and has large industrial-style casement windows, with western and northern exposures. The eastern side of the area is anchored by a kitchen with a stovetop hood and an island made of streaked brown wood. Countertops are of dark wood, and stainless steel appliances are made by AEG-Electrolux. 
By the windows overlooking the Danube to the west is a raised platform of about 270 square feet. Four steps lead up to the platform, which currently functions as a living space. Adjacent to it is a full bathroom with a transparent glass wall; handcrafted blinds allow for privacy. A freestanding ceramic tub is accompanied by a contemporary sink with ceiling tap by Scarabeo, an Italian company that designs bathroom basins. The tilework is in burnt sienna tones. Like a smaller bathroom by the loft's entrance, which has a shower designed by the Czech company Ravak, this one has heated towel racks.
A staircase near the kitchen area leads up to a 540-square-foot gallery, where the two spacious bedrooms are found. A glass walkway to the left leads to two dressings rooms. The bedrooms and walkway are directly above the two bathrooms, an office nook, a walk-in closet and a laundry room.
The district, once highly industrial, is transitioning into a residential community with amenities. The RiverLoft complex is within walking distance of the large West End City Center shopping plaza, and Szent Istvan Park, with playgrounds, is even closer. Margaret Island, which is comparable to Central Park in Manhattan, is also nearby. The Dozsa Gyorgy Street subway station is a few blocks away, as is a bus line convenient to downtown, and the drive to Budapest Franz Liszt International Airport takes about 45 minutes, Mr. Mezo said.
MARKET OVERVIEW
Because lofts are rare in Budapest, and lofts on the Danube practically nonexistent, this space, with its luxurious appliances and fixtures, is much more expensive than the average apartment in the 13th District -- as much as three times more, according to Mr. Mezo.
''If somebody wants a loft flat like this,'' he said, ''there is this flat, and maybe another one -- that's it. That's why it's hard to really talk about a market price.''
Like many of Budapest's luxury apartments, this loft has been on the market for two years, and its owner has no intention of dropping the price, Mr. Mezo said. Prices for homes and apartments in Budapest did not plummet as they did in many other countries during the global economic crisis, but stayed flat.
''Especially, in the highest segment of the market, which are properties of $300,000 and above,'' Mr. Mezo said, ''these sellers won't accept any price reductions now. They can afford to hold onto the property for years.''
This loft, at about $438 per square foot, is comparable in price to the very best apartments in Budapest's center, including those in the Fifth District or along Andrassy Street. Apartments in those areas range from about $370 to $560 a square foot, he said.
While sales transactions have dropped off since the economic crisis, the luxury sector is still seeing some activity, mostly fueled by the purchases of wealthy Hungarians, Mr. Mezo said.
That is largely because wealthy buyers are paying in cash. Since the crisis, it has become extremely difficult to obtain home mortgages.
WHO BUYS IN BUDAPEST
Because an anticipated price spike when Hungary joined the European Union in 2004 never occurred, foreign investors have all but disappeared from the market, said Bela Varga, a real estate lawyer. There were many European buyers, particularly Irish buyers, before the crisis, but that activity has dropped off as pricing has remained flat.
''If somebody bought a property in 2005,'' Mr. Varga said, ''he could sell it at the same price today.''
Many expatriates reside in Budapest, as many foreign companies are located there, but the trend now is to rent, and the market has adapted accordingly, said Adrienne Konthur, managing director of CB Richard Ellis Hungary.
''Current market rents make a living standard possible right in downtown Budapest that for many would not be affordable in other cities of Central Europe,'' she said, ''not to mention the western part of the continent.''
Owners are more than happy to hold on to their apartments and rent them out, and this loft apartment is also available for rent at $4,900 a month.
BUYING BASICS
There are no restrictions on foreign buyers. Parties involved in real estate transactions must hire a lawyer to handle paperwork, countersign the sales agreement and submit it to the land registry, Mr. Varga said. Foreign buyers must also obtain a permit of sale, which typically takes about a month and costs about 50,000 forints (about $266). Residents of the European Union have been exempt from this permit requirement since May 1, 2009.
The lawyer fee is about 1 percent of the home's purchase price; whether the buyer or the seller pays is a point of negotiation, Mr. Mezo said, though it is often the buyer. The stamp duty tax on the property, which typically amounts to about 4 percent of the purchase price, is also the buyer's responsibility, Mr. Varga said.
Currently, there are no property taxes on Budapest properties, but if they are sold within five years, sellers must pay capital gains tax on the profit, Mr. Varga said.
WEB SITES
Budapest portal: english.budapest.hu
Hungarian Real Estate Association: www.maisz.hu
Hungarian National Tourist Office: gotohungary.com
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
Hungarian; Hungarian forint (1 forint = $.0053)
TAXES AND FEES
There is no property tax on this apartment; monthly fees are about $300.
CONTACT
Zoltan Mezo, At Home Network, 011-36-1-240-2767; athome-network.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); CITY LIFE (63%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (54%); AIRPORTS (50%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) HUNGARY (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



136 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1868 words

HEADLINE: Disabled, but Looking for Work

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
BATESVILLE, Ark. -- Christopher Howard suffers from herniated discs in his back, knee problems and hepatitis C. As a result, Social Security sends him $574 every month and will until he reaches retirement age -- unless he can find a job.
Though he has been collecting disability checks for three years, Mr. Howard, who is just 36, desperately wants to work, recalling dredging for gravel rather fondly and repairing cell towers less fondly.
''It makes me feel like I am doing something,'' said Mr. Howard, a burly man with a honey-colored goatee. ''Instead of just being a bum, pretty much.''
Programs intended to steer people with more moderate disabilities back into jobs have managed to take only a small sliver of beneficiaries off the Social Security rolls. 
Yet, at a time when employers are struggling to create spots for the 13.5 million people actively looking for jobs, helping people like Mr. Howard find employment -- or keeping them working in the first place -- is becoming increasingly important to the nation's fiscal health.
For the last five years, Social Security has paid out more in benefits to disabled workers than it has taken in from payroll taxes. Government actuaries forecast that the disability trust fund will run out of money by 2018.
About 8.2 million people collected disabled worker benefits totaling $115 billion last year, up from 5 million a decade earlier. About one in 21 Americans from age 25 to 64 receive the benefit, according to an analysis of Social Security data by Prof. Mark G. Duggan, an economist at the University of Maryland, compared with one in 30 a little over a decade ago. In Mr. Howard's home state of Arkansas, the figure is one in 12, among the highest in the nation.
Along with monthly checks that are based on the worker's earnings history, beneficiaries generally qualify for Medicare -- otherwise reserved for those over 65 -- two years after being admitted to the disability rolls.
There are several reasons for the increase in beneficiaries. Baby boomers are hitting the age when health starts to deteriorate, and more people are claiming back and other muscular-skeletal ailments and mental illnesses than claimed those as disabilities a generation ago. Lawyers who solicit clients on television and on the Internet probably play a role. And administrative law judges say pressure to process cases sometimes leads to more disability claims being accepted.
But given the difficult job market, some economists say they believe that an increasing number of people rely on disability benefits as a kind of shadow safety net.
The program was designed to help workers who are ''permanently and totally disabled,'' and administration officials say that it is an important lifeline for many people who simply cannot work at all.
But Social Security officials can take into consideration a claimant's age, skills and ability to retrain when determining eligibility. So one question is: How many of these beneficiaries could work, given the right services and workplace accommodations? Social Security officials say relatively few.
Nicole Maestas, an economist at the Rand Corporation, has examined Social Security data with fellow economist Kathleen J. Mullen, and concluded that in the absence of benefits, about 18 percent of recipients could work and earn at least $12,000 a year, the threshold at which benefits are suspended.
Other economists say that even among those denied benefits, a majority fail to go back to work, in part because of medical problems and a lack of marketable skills.
''In an atmosphere in which there is a concern about fiscal problems, it's always easy to point the finger at groups and say, 'These people should be working,' '' said Prof. John Bound, an economist at the University of Michigan, ''exaggerating the degree to which the disability insurance program is broken.''
Even if claimants have more ambiguous medical cases, once they are granted disability benefits, they generally continue to collect. Of the 567,395 medical reviews conducted on beneficiaries in 2009, Social Security expects less than 1 percent to leave because of improved health.
The benefits have no expiration date, like the current 99-week limit for collecting unemployment. And because many people spend years appealing denials and building their medical case before being granted benefits, their skills often atrophy and gaps open on their resumes, making it more difficult for them to get back to work.
Beneficiaries, who also fear losing health care coverage, may view their checks as birds in the hand. ''Even if you're taking just $800 or $900 a month, that's better than nothing,'' said Bruce Growick, an associate professor of rehabilitation services at Ohio State University.
Shortly after Mr. Howard's benefit checks started arriving, he received a four-by-six-inch card from Social Security informing him of services to help him return to work. Confused by the bureaucratic language and fearing the loss of medical coverage, he discarded it. When he called the local office, he said a staff member did not seem to know what his rights were or what help was available.
''I thought it is just better to get what we are getting,'' he said.
In fact, Social Security offers disability beneficiaries some incentive to ease back into the work force. For nine months after starting a job, they can earn any amount without threatening their benefits. For another three years, if their income falls below $1,000 a month, they can immediately receive full benefits again. And they can keep Medicare coverage for eight and a half years after going back to work, something few beneficiaries may realize.
In 1999, Congress passed a law authorizing the Ticket to Work program, which offers beneficiaries practical help with a job search. Social Security also waives medical reviews for those who participate.
So far, the program has had little success. Out of 12.5 million disabled workers and those who receive benefits for the disabled poor, only 13,656 returned to work over the last two and a half years, with less than a third of them earning enough to drop the benefits.
A Social Security spokesman noted that some other beneficiaries had returned to work without using its Ticket to Work program. In 2009, 32,445 recipients left the benefit rolls because they were earning enough in jobs.
Officials say they have streamlined and simplified the Ticket to Work program. But even with more awareness, they say not enough people could go back to work to make a difference in the disability trust fund.
''We could make this program exponentially more successful and it wouldn't be enough to dramatically improve the solvency picture,'' said Michael J. Astrue, the commissioner of Social Security. ''You do it because work -- for people who can work -- gives them dignity and improves their economic condition.''
In Batesville, a small manufacturing town about 80 miles northeast of Little Rock, Ark., Mr. Howard and his wife, Darlene, who is also out of work, scrape by on his monthly $574 check. They live in a garage behind the home owned by Mr. Howard's parents. Inside the forest green shack, which has no running water, they have crammed some shabby furniture and a tiny galley kitchen.
Mr. Howard, who went to a community college for only six weeks and quit before becoming a certified nursing aide, landed work over the years through friends and family. One job was building and repairing cell towers in Illinois. In 2000, during a climb up a tower, Mr. Howard fell more than 20 feet before a pull cord stopped him. He quit on the spot, but ignored the back pain.
He moved back to Arkansas, met Ms. Howard and began working for a company that dredged the White River for gravel used to make asphalt and concrete. He operated 25- to 40-pound pumps, drove a forklift and repaired plant vehicles, earning $8.50 an hour, or about $22,000 a year with overtime.
The job kept him outside every day, and sometimes he fished for bass and trout on the way upriver. ''I would still be doing that job if I could,'' he said on a cool March afternoon as he sat in a booth at McDonald's, sharing refills of Dr Pepper with his wife.
Six years ago, his working life came to a halt. While fixing a dump truck, he began vomiting blood. He was rushed to the hospital, where his gallbladder was removed, because of complications of the hepatitis C he had contracted from a tattoo in his early 20s.
Mr. Howard, who said he spent much of his 20s hanging out with the ''wrong crowd,'' admits he played a role in his poor health. ''I was living pretty heavily on the weekends,'' he said.
After the surgery, doctors determined he had herniated discs. He tried to go back to work but found he could not perform many tasks, like heavy lifting, and was dismissed.
His initial application for disability benefits was denied. He tried going back to work, hanging dry wall, but pain stopped him. Eventually, he hired a lawyer. After three years and three tries, he won benefits.
Last September, he met Shawn Blasczczyk, a coordinator of the Ticket to Work program with the White River Area Agency on Aging in Ash Flat, Ark., who had given a presentation at an employment office where Mr. Howard's father worked. After learning he had some protections while searching for work, Mr. Howard decided to try.
Advocates for the disabled say Social Security makes lackluster efforts to promote the Ticket to Work program. All new beneficiaries should have an appointment to ''talk to a benefits counselor about returning to work and how it will affect you,'' said Lori Gentry, a care manager at the White River agency, a nonprofit that works with disabled beneficiaries. ''I don't think that is a whole lot to ask to get a monthly check.''
Some advocates recommend intervention before people receive benefits to try to help the disabled stay in jobs in the first place.
In a proposal for the Center for American Progress and the Brookings Institution's Hamilton Project, Professor Duggan of the University of Maryland and Prof. David H. Autor, an economist at M.I.T., suggest that disabled workers be offered partial income support and services to remain in the workplace. Moreover, they advocate for employers to purchase mandatory disability insurance as they do unemployment insurance and workers' compensation, giving them incentive to accommodate workers rather than send them to the federal benefit rolls.
Mr. Howard is bumping up against his limitations, only some of which have to do with his medical condition. Last September, Ms. Blasczczyk helped place him in a job driving seniors to doctors' appointments, but he quit after six months because of the stress. Scrolling through job listings at McDonald's on a recent afternoon, he noted that many required college degrees.
Still, Mr. Howard is confident he will eventually find some work. While searching, he and Ms. Howard, who is also applying for work, have quit smoking and are trying to eat healthier foods. They have joined Mr. Howard's father in a Bible study group.
''I would feel better if I worked and made my own money,'' he said. ''Because that way when somebody who needs it even more than I do, the Social Security would be there for them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christopher Howard, 36, with his wife, Darlene. ''I would feel better if I worked and made my own money,'' he said. (B1)
Christopher Howard and his wife live on his $574 a month disability check from Social Security. He is confident he will find a job. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACOB SLATON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHARTS: Disablity benefits paid
 Disabled workers as share of population (Source: Social Security Administration) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); DISABLED WORKERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RETIREMENT AGE (77%); MEDICARE (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); HEPATITIS C (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (73%); HEPATITIS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (68%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (63%); LAWYERS (61%); JUDGES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



137 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Learn How to Collect From Slow Payers

BYLINE: By HANNAH SELIGSON

 BODY:
SMALL-BUSINESS owners know it is cash flow or die. While the recession officially ended in June 2009, many companies are still reeling. Credit can be hard to come by, and profits have not completely bounced back. On top of that, many customers are taking longer than ever to pay their bills.
Exhibit A is Cisco Systems, one of the largest technology companies in the world, which announced last year that it would wait a full 60 days to pay its small-business suppliers -- mostly because it had found that that was what other big companies were doing.
So how does a small business get paid in a tough economy without hiring a collections agency or alienating its clients? Better yet, how does it avoid ending up with a stack of unpaid invoices in the first place? 
Judging from the experiences of the small-business owners interviewed for this guide, it is part art and part science.
DO YOUR DUE DILIGENCE It used to be that credit reports were expensive and only for big companies with large budgets. Not anymore.
Ron Phelps, commercial credit manager at Boulevard Tire Center, a tire distributor with 26 locations in Florida, pays $99 a month for Pulse, a service offered through Cortera, , an online business credit reporting system, that keeps tabs on his clients. Last December, Cortera's monitoring system noted that there was a large federal tax lien on one of Mr. Phelps's clients, a small trucking company. He cut off the company's credit line.
''That very same day,'' he said, ''we decided just to make them a cash customer, because we were concerned about their ability to pay.''
Cortera also offers a free service that collects and analyzes payment histories on more than 20 million businesses. Think of it as Yelp for business credit -- instead of reviewing restaurants and stores, its community gives feedback on how promptly a company pays.
''We are helping small businesses tell the world that this person is a deadbeat,'' said Alex Cote, vice president for marketing for Cortera. (There are other services, including Dun & Bradstreet, that will assess the financial strength of a company.)
SET YOUR TERMS (WITH A SMILE) Diane Nicosia manages and coordinates major construction and design projects through her company, D. E. Nicosia & Associates, which is based in New Rochelle, N.Y. ''I'm in charge of the budget and have to make sure vendors, architects and engineers get paid,'' Ms. Nicosia said. ''What I've learned is that you have to negotiate these days.''
On a recent project involving 45,000 square feet of office space in a Midtown Manhattan office tower, a construction company said it would back out of the deal after it found that it would take 90 days to get paid by Ms. Nicosia's client, a Fortune 100 financial services and manufacturing firm. Ms. Nicosia met with her client's senior management and found that the payment timetable was not set in stone; there was room to broker a schedule that could keep the construction company from walking.
''Most people don't think to challenge the payment schedule,'' she said, ''but we have to step up as small-business owners and say, 'This is my living.' ''
What Ms. Nicosia learned through this negotiation process, which she said was very amicable, was that there are often options: ''All they have to do is push a little button that says pay in 10, 30 or 60 days, and that gets your invoice in a queue, so I got my vendor paid faster by working with the right people in the company.''
GET THE PAPERWORK RIGHT Is your invoice perfect? Did you fill out all the forms (even the ones you may not know about)? Companies do not need much of an excuse, if any, to delay your invoice. So make sure not one piece of information is missing.
Do you know whether the invoice needs a purchase order number? Not having this number can leave invoices lingering in accounts-payable purgatory, and it is unlikely that accounts payable will call to tell you.
Is your invoice formatted correctly? Some companies accept invoices only in the form of a PDF. If you are a new vendor, did you fill out a new vendor form? Many companies require these forms to process a first-time payment (but do not always make that known).
KNOW WHEN TO LOSE A CLIENT If customers do fall behind, when do you decide to cut them off? And what do you do if it is a customer you think you cannot afford to lose?
At Boulevard Tire, delinquent accounts are placed in one of two buckets -- 30 days overdue and 60 days overdue.
''We look at those lists long and hard and ask ourselves,'' Mr. Phelps said, ''is this someone I want to immediately put on credit hold? Or is there something salvageable here? Are they a first-time offender?''
There are, he said, no hard and fast rules. ''It's all about the dynamics,'' he said. ''For example, if we have a customer who is in dire straits, and they appear to be making an effort to pay, we might continue working with them.''
Still, the economics may ultimately dictate the decision. As Mr. Phelps pointed out, if your company has a 10 percent profit margin and you lose $10,000 on an account, that is an additional $100,000 in revenue that your company has to find.
DON'T RELY ON THE POST OFFICE To avoid having someone in the accounting department tell you that ''the check is in the mail,'' push for direct deposit or electronic transfer. That way, you can get paid exactly on the 45th or 60th day. There are also services available from banks that will allow checks to be faxed and scanned, with the money deposited into your account the same day.
Consider accepting credit cards or PayPal. Yes, there is a fee, depending on which card or service you use, but the cash comes almost instantly.
''Some credit card companies pay their merchants on the following day,'' said George A. Cloutier, founder of American Management Services, a financial turnaround firm. ''And in a climate where cash is so tight, that's often worth the fee.''
LET THEM KNOW IT'S IMPORTANT Rachel Lawrence oversees invoicing and bill collection at Bright Power, an energy efficiency company based in Manhattan. She was trying to collect from a property management firm that was 30 days late on a $25,000 invoice.
''They kept giving me this excuse that they had changed accounting systems, which I think can be a delay tactic,'' she said. ''It got to the point where I really had to make it clear that I wanted payment, so I offered to physically pick up the check.''
Ms. Lawrence gave the property management company dates and times she would be available to make the 30-minute trip to its office in Midtown Manhattan. The firm agreed to have the check ready. ''When you say this is important enough to me that I will go out of my way,'' she said, ''I think people respond.''
OFFER A DISCOUNT Mr. Phelps said he does not like to reward clients for not paying, but that in certain cases extending a discount on the condition that the debt be paid immediately in cash or a cashier's check can make the money appear.
''We'd rather have something than nothing and save ourselves the time and effort of going to court,'' he said, ''but we probably wouldn't enter into a credit relationship with that company in the future.''
And do not be afraid to give a 10 percent discount, said Mr. Cloutier: ''For 1 or 2 percent, it's probably not worth it to the person who owes the money, particularly if they are short on cash.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Diane Nicosia, a designer and project manager in New Rochelle, N.Y., says payment timetables can be flexible. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (84%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (79%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (77%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (74%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); TIRE DEALERS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); OFFICE PROPERTY (60%); TRUCKING (50%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



138 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Gung-Ho for Big Cuts in Spending, Less Fond of the Ones That Hurt Back Home

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As a candidate, Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler denounced stimulus spending and, once elected, voted for a Republican budget bill that would make $61 billion in cuts to a vast array of programs this year.
Government overspending is out of control, she said recently in the weekly Republican address, and must be stopped. But perhaps not in her home state, Washington.
There, the Port of Vancouver had been waiting for a $10 million grant, one modeled on a popular program in the stimulus bill. But the money was rescinded in the Republican spending bill, known as H.R. 1, that passed the House in February but was later defeated in the Democratic-controlled Senate. 
Port officials appealed to Ms. Herrera Beutler, one of 87 freshman Republicans in the House. She agreed to work on the port's behalf to make sure it got its money before any cuts to the grant program went into effect. The outcome remains unknown.
''We were very concerned,'' said Theresa Wagner, a spokeswoman for the port, which is set to use the money for a rail project. ''Our rail project is incredibly important to us and is our link to additional private investment.''
Ms. Herrera Beutler, Ms. Wagner said, has been ''incredibly receptive'' to their concerns.
Ms. Herrera Beutler's spokesman said the project in her district was small relative to total government spending.
''We're talking about $10 million out of a more than $1 trillion bill,'' said the spokesman, Casey Bowman. ''There are likely other small cuts made in H.R. 1 that she didn't fully agree with but she voted to cut spending over all because, as economists have said, cutting federal spending will help economic recovery.''
While scores of congressmen and women are singing an ode to spending reductions with their Republican choir in Washington, back home, the tune sometimes changes.
In town-hall-style meetings and in interviews with local news media in recent weeks, some Republican members have been backing away from the cuts made in various spending bills passed by the House. In some cases, they are trying to circumvent the very cuts they voted for.
As House Republicans continue to press Democrats this week for even bigger cuts in a bill to avert a government shutdown, it is likely that more and more members of Congress will face constituents who, while supportive of the concept of cutting federal spending, do not care much for the specifics.
Such inconsistencies, while hardly new to this Congress, are political chum for Democrats.
''You cannot vote to cut veterans' benefits in Washington and then go pose for pictures with veterans back in the district,'' said Representative Steve Israel, who runs the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. ''There is a pattern of duplicity here, and we're going to make sure it comes back to haunt them.''
''Pattern'' may be an overstatement, but there are several examples of members' voting for cuts that they then deplore. Representative Bobby Schilling voted against rail financing for his district in Illinois, and later said that he did so only because he knew that the Senate would not sign off on the cut.
The Republican spending bill made large cuts to the Department of Energy, ''regardless of mission,'' and including the National Nuclear Security Administration. Several Republicans, including Representative Michael R. Turner of Ohio, wrote to Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee, seeking to restore money for the agency.
''Congressman Turner voted in favor of H.R. 1 as it was the beginning of a longer conversation on how our nation is to proceed with its finances,'' said his spokesman, Thomas Crosson. ''In the time since, Congressman Turner has spoken with Chairman Ryan and leadership to stress the importance of N.N.S.A. funding, and its implications for our national security.''
Also potentially harmed by cuts were research centers in Illinois, which caught the attention of Representative Randy Hultgren, a Republican from that state. Mr. Hultgren visited Fermilab, which conducts research in high-energy physics, and pledged support, according to a spokesman for the lab and news media accounts. Andrew Flach, a spokesman for Mr. Hultgren, did not return numerous calls.
The Republican budget bill also called for cutting a type of popular transportation grant. Since the cut was proposed, there has been an apparent rush to get work going on projects financed by the grants to keep them from being ended by any budget-cutting deal agreed to by the two parties and the White House. Consider the case of the Memorial Bridge, which stretches over the Piscataqua River between Portsmouth, N.H., and Kittery, Me. The aging bridge, in ill repair, was set to receive $20 million in transportation grants.
But Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, and Senators Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire and Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins of Maine and Representative Frank Guinta of New Hampshire -- all Republicans who voted for the Republican spending-cut bill that slashed the grant program -- worked to ensure that the bridge project would receive the financing, according to staff members from several of their offices.
Mark Powell, Mr. Guinta's spokesman, said the money had been held up by the Department of Transportation, and thus fell inadvertently under the budget knife of his boss and his House colleagues.
''The bottom line is, the Memorial Bridge is going to get the repairs it needs,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (66%); MILITARY BENEFITS (60%); VETERANS (60%)

PERSON: JAIME HERRERA (89%); STEVE ISRAEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (90%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



139 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Changing Libyan Tactics Pose Problems for NATO

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Thom Shanker contributed reporting from Washington, and David D. Kirkpatrick from Tripoli, Libya.

 BODY:
PARIS -- Angry charges by Libyan rebels that NATO has failed to come to their aid point up a question that has haunted the Western air campaign from the start: how to avoid a stalemate and defeat the Libyan leader without putting foreign troops on the ground.
NATO officials and the French foreign minister, Alain Juppe, rejected the opposition criticism on Wednesday, saying that bad weather and evolving tactics by forces loyal to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi were limiting the air war, which is supposed to be protecting Libyan civilians and driving the colonel's troops to retreat to their barracks. In recent days, Qaddafi forces have stepped up their shelling of Misurata, in the west, and pushed rebels back from some eastern oil towns.
The rebels, of course, are a largely untrained, disorganized fighting force. But the nature of the battle has also changed since a United Nations resolution authorized ''all necessary measures'' to protect civilians.
In the early stages of the air campaign, allied warplanes blistered Qaddafi tanks, artillery and transport trucks in the desert outside the rebel capital, Benghazi. But American intelligence reports from Libya say that the Qaddafi forces are now hiding their troops and weaponry among urban populations and traveling in pickup trucks and S.U.V.'s rather than military vehicles, making them extremely difficult targets. 
''The military capabilities available to Qaddafi remain quite substantial,'' said a senior Pentagon official who watches Libya. ''What this shows is that you cannot guarantee tipping the balance of ground operations only with bombs and missiles from the air.''
NATO officials, who just took over responsibility for the air campaign from the United States, deny that their bureaucracy is somehow limiting the campaign. ''No country is vetoing this target or that one; it's not like Kosovo,'' where in 1999 some countries objected to certain bombing targets, said a senior NATO official, asking anonymity in accordance with diplomatic practice.
''The military command is doing what it wants to do,'' he said.
NATO officials said on Wednesday that NATO was flying more missions every day, and that defending Misurata was a priority. Carmen Romero, a NATO spokeswoman, said that the alliance flew 137 missions on Monday and 186 on Tuesday, and planned 198 on Wednesday. ''We have a clear mandate, and we will do everything to protect the citizens of Misurata.''
A rebel spokesman in Misurata said Wednesday that NATO had delivered two airstrikes that pushed the Qaddafi forces away from the port, opening it for vital supply ships. ''We have renewed momentum, and our friends are helping us big time,'' said Mohamed, a rebel spokesman whose name was withheld for the protection of his family.
''NATO is not the problem,'' the senior NATO official said. ''The Qaddafi forces have learned and have adapted. They're using human shields, so it's difficult to attack them from the air.'' While many Western officials have accused the Qaddafi forces of using human shields, they have yet to produce explicit evidence. But they generally mean that the troops take shelter, with their armor, in civilian areas.
The harder question is how NATO will respond to the changed tactics of the Qaddafi forces, which now seem to have achieved a stalemate against the combination of Western air power and the ragtag opposition army.
First, there is a question of whether without the participation of the United States, the rest of the coalition -- France, Britain, Italy, Spain, Norway, Qatar and a few others -- have the right mix of weapons or enough of them. In particular, the United States uses a jet called the A-10, or Warthog -- which flies lower and slower than other airplanes but has cannon that can destroy armored vehicles -- as well as the AC-130, both of which are effective in more built-up areas. The Europeans have nothing similar.
The United States has had C.I.A. agents on the ground with the rebels in eastern Libya for some time, and there are unconfirmed reports that they may be helping to train the rebel army's raw recruits. Even so, forming a real army that can oust Colonel Qaddafi may take many months, and the coalition is unlikely to be that patient.
That is one reason that allied governments, including the United States and Britain, are urging defections from the Qaddafi circle and hoping that he will be removed from inside. No official, of course, is willing to talk about any covert mission to remove the colonel, except to say that ''regime change'' is not authorized by the United Nations.
And that is why Britain, Turkey and the United States are all exploring the possibilities of a negotiated solution to the conflict, provided Colonel Qaddafi and his sons relinquish power.
Francois Heisbourg, a military policy expert at the Foundation for Strategic Research in Paris, said, ''Given where we are, any deal that removes Colonel Qaddafi from the scene is a deal we should take.''
As for the current air war, NATO is especially sensitive to the criticism that came most scathingly from the leader of the Libyan opposition forces, Gen. Abdul Fattah Younes. He said in Benghazi late Tuesday that ''NATO blesses us every now and then with a bombardment here and there, and is letting the people of Misurata die every day.''
Mr. Juppe, whose country has been the most aggressive in defense of the Libyan opposition, said on Wednesday that the situation in Misurata was difficult, but it was complicated by the need to protect civilian lives.
''Misurata is in a situation that cannot carry on,'' Mr. Juppe told France Info radio. ''But I want to make clear that we categorically asked that there is no collateral damage on the civilian population, so it makes the military interventions more difficult, because Qaddafi's troops understood it very well and are getting closer to the civilian population.''
He said he would bring up the difficulties of Misurata to the NATO secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen.
Rebel leaders have rejected the idea that the Qaddafi forces in Misurata cannot be attacked from the air, saying that the neighborhoods where the troops are concentrated were long ago abandoned by civilians.
Another option is to increase the pressure on Colonel Qaddafi and his sons, although openly changing the objective in Libya from protecting civilians to ousting the Qaddafi family from power would probably shatter the international coalition that is enforcing the United Nations resolution, said Anthony H. Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
''Nevertheless,'' he added, ''the U.S. and its allies need to make hard -- if somewhat covert -- choices, and make them quickly,'' he said in an e-mailed commentary. ''The last thing anyone needs at a time when there is near-turmoil from Pakistan to Morocco is a long-lasting open wound of political division and extended conflict in Libya as the worst-of-the-worst authoritarian leaders elsewhere in the region struggle to survive.''
NATO needs to take the rebels' side more forcefully, he said, despite the neutrality of the United Nations resolution. That could take several forms, he said, among them ''killing Qaddafi forces the moment they move or concentrate, rather than waiting for them to attack; striking Qaddafi's military and security facilities; and finding excuses to strike his compound.''
For Libya, Mr. Cordesman wrote, ''a long political and economic crisis and an extended low-level conflict that devastates populated areas'' would represent a ''net humanitarian cost'' that would be ''higher than fully backing the rebels, with air power and covert arms and training.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: East of Brega, Libya, rebels fired rockets on Wednesday. The rebels have criticized NATO's Libya campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOSOVO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



140 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: As China Ages, Birthrate Policy May Prove Difficult to Reverse

BYLINE: By SHARON LaFRANIERE; Xiyun Yang contributed reporting from Yicheng and Beijing.

 BODY:
YICHENG, China -- Under China's family-planning regulations, most couples are barred from having more than one baby. Wang Hong and her husband, Zhang Jingfeng, are among those who were granted a second chance -- and decided against it.
Instead, they have marshaled their resources behind their gregarious 9-year-old son, devoting two-fifths of their yearly income of 20,000 renminbi, or about $3,000, to send him to private school.
''I have to create good circumstances for him,'' said Ms. Wang, 33, whose sparsely furnished home is heated by a wood stove. ''If I had another child, what would our living circumstances be like?''
Ms. Wang's reasoning underscores an argument voiced with growing insistency by demographers who want China to abandon its one-child restrictions: like the couple in Yicheng, they argue, most Chinese want only one child anyway. 
Perhaps more important, economists contend that China's low birthrate, once an economic advantage, is now destined to clip the nation's economic growth.
China's rise has depended partly on a huge spurt in the number of workers as a percentage of the population. This surge has created a cheap, productive labor force for its factories, mines and construction crews.
Now the size of the work force is leveling off. Demographers say it will begin to shrink within just five years, albeit slowly at first.
Meanwhile, the ranks of the elderly are swelling so fast that by 2040, projections show that the median age of Chinese will be higher than that of Americans, but Chinese will enjoy just one-third of the per capita income, adjusted for the cost of living. Experts say that will make China the first major country to grow old before it is fully economically developed.
''There are tremendous demographic crises pending, unprecedented in Chinese demography,'' Wang Feng, who heads the Tsinghua Center for Public Policy in Beijing, a branch of the Washington-based Brookings Institution, said in an interview.
''Very few people are arguing for this policy anymore,'' he said.
But as calls for a relaxation of the policy intensify, and official hints of looser restrictions increase, so do concerns that the one-child culture is now so ingrained among Chinese that the authorities may not be able to encourage more births even if they try.
A growing body of research suggests that much of the decline in Chinese fertility over the past three decades is not a result of the one-child policy and its various permutations, but of the typical drop in birthrates that occurs as societies modernize.
For example, in Yicheng, the county in rural Shanxi Province where Ms. Wang lives, couples have been exempt from the one-child policy for a quarter of a century. Under a state experiment that was deliberately kept secret until a few years ago, couples were allowed to have two children if they married three years later than the minimum age for the rest of the country. Initially they were also required to wait six years between the first and second births.
Nonetheless, the county's population grew roughly on par with the rest of the nation. ''People don't think they have the money for two children,'' said Shi Aixiang, a preschool director in Yicheng.
The trend appears to be the same in Jiangsu, a coastal province north of Shanghai. Researchers interviewed nearly 4,400 women who were eligible to have two children. Fewer than one-third of the mothers with one child said they either wanted or might want a second, according to a 2009 study published by the journal Asian Population Studies.
In Shanghai, so many eligible couples have decided against a second child that in 2009, population workers started making home visits to try to change their minds. Cai Yong, a demographer at the University of North Carolina, said that Shanghai's and Beijing's fertility rates were both estimated at 0.7 per woman -- fewer than one child per couple, and half what many demographers estimate is the national childbearing rate.
All this suggests that there may not be much China can do to manipulate the number of births. But it appears that as the reality of a shrinking work force draws closer, so does a loosening of government restrictions.
Prime Minister Wen Jiabao told the national legislature last month that China would ''progressively improve the basic state policy on family planning.'' It was the second time since October that China's leadership had hinted at a policy adjustment.
Demographers said the most likely change would allow couples in some provinces to have a second child if either the husband or wife is an only child. Currently, most urban couples are allowed to have a second child if both the husband and wife are only children.
That would be just the latest erosion of the Great Wall of family planning. Since the policy was adopted in 1980, Chinese officials have been steadily chipping away at what still stands as the world's boldest initiative to control the instinct to propagate. At least 22 exemptions have been carved out -- some sweeping, some so obscure that only government officials seem to know to apply for them.
Still, Mr. Wang of the Tsinghua Center, one of a group of demographers that analyzed the various exceptions and data from China's hundreds of prefectures, calculates that 63 percent of Chinese couples are limited to just one child.
Government officials say the policy has averted a total of 400 million births in 30 years. But Mr. Wang and Mr. Cai estimate that at least 45 percent of those births would never have occurred anyway, as couples naturally limited their family size to fit the changing economic landscape.
Demographers also contend that China has overestimated the real fertility rate to help justify the one-child restrictions. In the early 1990s, China's fertility rate fell below what demographers call the replacement level, or the number of births needed for one generation to replace itself. Officially, China estimates the current fertility rate at 1.8 children per woman. But Mr. Cai and other demographers estimate the real rate is closer to 1.5 children.
Scholars are also dismayed by the gender imbalance that has followed the one-child policy. When it was enacted, China was close to the birth-ratio standard for most societies: 103 to 107 boys for every 100 girls. Twenty-five years later, 119 Chinese boys were born for every 100 girls, one of the world's most skewed sex ratios, according to a 2009 study by The British Medical Journal. In 2005, China had 32 million more males under age 20 than females, a disparity that researchers say will only worsen over the next two decades and could lead to social instability.
Mr. Wang and other scholars attribute much of the imbalance to the rule that allows many rural couples to have a second child if their first child is a girl. The regions covered by that exemption, they say, average nearly 130 male births for every 100 females. Researchers believe much of the disparity comes from couples who employ ultrasound tests to identify and abort female fetuses.
At first, China's drop in fertility worked largely in its favor. The nation's share of dependents -- children and elderly -- fell significantly in comparison to working-age citizens. ''China entered an amazing demographic sweet spot,'' said Michael Pettis, a Peking University professor and economist at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. By some estimates, the growth in the percentage of workers over nonworkers accounted for 15 percent to 25 percent of China's economic growth between 1980 and 2000.
But now economists say the phenomenon of fewer births is turning into a negative. Mr. Wang said that China already had 14 percent fewer people in their 20s compared with a decade ago. In the next 20 years, he said, their numbers will dwindle an additional 17 percent, while the share of China's population that is 65 and older is projected to double to 16 percent. By 2050, nearly one in four Chinese will be elderly, according to United Nations projections.
Arthur Kroeber, the managing director of Dragonomics, a Beijing-based economic research firm, said the increasing productivity of China's workers could stave off the impact of fewer numbers. Raising the retirement age -- a proposal the government is now studying for women, who typically are required to retire earlier than men -- could also prop up the work force.
''But inevitably, the shift in the dependency ratio means that the economic growth rate is going to slow down,'' he said.
In the end, many experts agree, government population policies are no match for the inexorable demographic forces that will shape the coming decades.
''My view is they absolutely don't need it,'' Mr. Kroeber said of the one-child policy. ''But I also think that if they abolished it today, it would have no impact.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RELAXING THE ONE-CHILD RULE: Top, children going to school in Yicheng, China
above left, a woman taking her grandchildren home from school for a lunch break
above right, Wang Hong with a poster of her family. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLES SABRIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) MAP: Population growth in Yicheng resembles that in all of China.
 CHART: Projected to Peak: The working-age population in China is expected to peak at about one billion in 2015. (Source: United Nations, World Population Prospects) (A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COST OF LIVING (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INTERVIEWS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SHANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



141 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: A Legislative Face-Off, Over Onions and Corn

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ALBANY - First came the budget fight. Now it looks as if it will be the food fight.
With the state having adopted its first on-time spending plan in five years, lawmakers this week have found themselves with time to move on to other weighty matters - including, of all things, botany.
New York has no official state vegetable, shocking as that might seem. But two state senators have stepped up to try to fill in the blank. Only, they cannot agree whether it should be the onion or sweet corn.
In the grand sweep of history, or even in this year's legislative session, Albany's vegetable debate will probably not leave much of a mark. But while many of the thousands of bills introduced in Albany are far too arcane to have their merits debated at the kitchen table, this is surely an exception, in more ways than one. 
The onion is supported by Senator David Carlucci, a first-term independent Democrat from Rockland County, who introduced his bill last week. Sweet corn is backed by Senator Michael F. Nozzolio, a Republican from Seneca County, who introduced his measure on Tuesday, and several members of the Assembly.
Mr. Carlucci, whose district includes the so-called Black Dirt region in Orange County that is home to thousands of acres of onion fields, said he wanted to shine a spotlight on New York's onion growers and encourage people to buy locally grown produce.
''We've got access to such great produce right here, and people should know that,'' Mr. Carlucci said. ''When people go into a restaurant in New York City, they should be asking and making sure: is this a New York-grown onion?''
And, he noted, the state might as well designate an official vegetable. It already has an official fruit (the apple) and an official beverage (milk), among other things. The Legislature is even considering a proposal to designate an official state scent (pine, according to Assemblyman Matthew Titone of Staten Island).
Mr. Nozzolio first introduced his bill in 2007 on behalf of students at Dana L. West High School in Port Byron, N.Y. It passed the Senate that year, but the Assembly did not consider it. One problem emerged along the way: although eaten like a vegetable, corn is technically a grain.
That distinction did not apparently bother Mr. Nozzolio, who has since reintroduced the bill each year. While his aides provided a reporter with a fact sheet full of corn-related statistics, he declined to comment on the bill.
Botanical precision notwithstanding, it appears as if Mr. Nozzolio has the upper hand over Mr. Carlucci, at least if economic impact is the metric of choice.
The state harvested more sweet corn: 22,800 acres last year, compared with 10,200 acres of onions, according to the federal Department of Agriculture. And it made more money from the corn: $71.1 million to $54.2 million. (Though, in fairness, onions earned more money the year before.)
Still, at least last year, neither was New York's top-grossing veggie. That honor went to cabbage, which brought in $74.4 million despite its relative weakness in Albany lobbying.
As for Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's opinion? At a news conference on Wednesday after the swearing-in of the state's new agriculture commissioner, Darrel J. Aubertine, Mr. Cuomo played coy.
''I do not have a candidate yet in the race for official state vegetable,'' he said to laughter. ''However, I'm going to ask the new agriculture commissioner to do the research, to do the history, and find out what vegetable we can get the most mileage out of.''
His girlfriend, the Food Network personality Sandra Lee, appears to have a favorite, at least if her cooking habits are any measure. Of her recipes listed on the Food Network Web site, she uses onions in 267 of them, compared with 76 for corn and 30 for cabbage.
- THOMAS KAPLAN
Where Are They Now?
In November, Republican insurgents knocked off five Democratic members of Congress from New York, making it one of the most treacherous states for incumbents in the midterm elections.
So whatever happened to those defeated incumbents?
This week, Michael E. McMahon of Staten Island, who lost to Michael Grimm, began working at a Manhattan law firm, Herrick, Feinstein. That makes the firm the unofficial leader, in New York anyway, in collecting former members of Congress; Elizabeth Holtzman is also there. (So, for that matter, is Kevin E. Fullington, a top Republican operative who worked for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.)
In the suburbs north of the city, John Hall, who was a founder of the 1970s rock band Orleans before winning a Congressional seat in 2006, lost his re-election bid to Nan Hayworth. He has returned to his musical roots and plans to perform through the summer with his new band, Gulf Stream Night, to promote a new CD, ''Rock Me on the Water.''
Another 2006 winner who lost in 2010 was Michael Arcuri, who represented the Utica area; he lost to Richard Hanna. Mr. Arcuri, a former Oneida County district attorney, announced recently that he had joined Hancock & Estabrook, a Syracuse law firm.
Speaking of the Syracuse area, Daniel B. Maffei, a freshman Democrat from the class of 2008, lost to Ann Marie Buerkle. Mr. Maffei, a former aide to Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Representative Charles B. Rangel, recently joined Third Way, a moderate research institute in Washington, as a senior fellow.
And north of Albany, Scott Murphy, who won a special election in 2009 to fill the seat vacated by Kirsten E. Gillibrand when she was chosen to fill a United States Senate seat, lost to Christopher Gibson. Mr. Murphy recently announced that he had invested in a real estate development project in Glen Falls that he had praised during the 2010 campaign.
The question, of course, is whether any of the five will run again in 2012 - a presidential election year that political analysts believe will be a little more favorable to Democrats, especially in New York.
No doubt, the races will hinge heavily on where the new Congressional districts are drawn after the census-driven redistricting process is completed. New York stands to lose two seats, and the conventional wisdom is that one will be from upstate, and the other from the suburbs north of the city, according to political analysts.
But for now, Mr. Maffei is viewed as all but likely to run. He has already told supporters that he is ''strongly considering'' another bid. Democratic sources say that Mr. McMahon, a former city councilman who enjoys high name recognition, is also a strong possibility, especially if his district is redrawn to include more of Democratic Brooklyn.
By contrast, there has been little buzz about the others. But Democratic analysts say that while Mr. Arcuri is waiting for the new district lines before making a decision, neither Mr. Murphy nor Mr. Hall is believed to be interested in running again.
- DAVID W. CHEN
Our political reporters, and occasional guests, offer you a peek inside Albany and City Hall. Check back every Wednesday.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two state senators have introduced legislation to make either sweet corn or the onion the official vegetable of New York.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); BOTANY (71%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



142 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: A Freak Accident at the Queensboro Bridge, Until It Happens Again

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Mick Meenan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
It seemed a grisly freak accident: a small sedan, navigating a curvy Queensboro Bridge off-ramp early one morning last week, careered off the road and smashed into a Long Island City storefront, severing the arm of the driver and injuring his female passenger.
Then, on Wednesday, it happened again: same intersection, same storefront, same time of day -- even the same make of car, a Volkswagen. Once again, a driver lost his arm and a female passenger was badly hurt. 
The crashes were not identical -- a pedestrian was also killed in the accident last week -- but the eerily similar events, just nine days apart, have raised concerns about a sharp turnoff at the end of the bridge ramp, which opens into a crammed intersection recently reconfigured by the city.
In both episodes, the cars appeared to be traveling at high speeds when the driver lost control, the authorities said, and each car rammed into a guardrail before reaching the intersection. ''Excessive speed appears to be the dominant factor,'' said Seth Solomonow, a spokesman for the city's Transportation Department, who said that the off-ramp and its guardrails had not been modified since 2007.
The driver in Wednesday's crash, Alexander Palacio, 39, of Queens, was arrested at the scene for aggravated and unlicensed driving. The police said his license had been revoked after six suspensions for speeding and failure to pay fines. His front-seat passenger, a 40-year-old woman whose name was not released, was in critical condition on Wednesday with severe head trauma.
The intersection where the crashes occurred -- both happened around 4 a.m. -- is a complicated merging point for a pair of turn-off routes from the bridge, and its traffic pattern has been significantly reshaped in the past three months.
Two off-ramps, running side by side, each deposit cars from the bridge onto Queens Plaza South, an east-west boulevard that runs parallel to the bridge. In the past, the street had three lanes to handle the load.
In January, however, one of those lanes was blocked off by concrete barriers as part of a large-scale redesign run by the city's Economic Development Corporation to make the area more hospitable to pedestrians. The project, which includes wider sidewalks, a bike path and a park beneath the bridge's overpass, called for a wider median with planters to take the place of the lane.
The barriers forced cars from both off-ramps to navigate a sharper angle while merging onto Queens Plaza South. On March 2, at the Transportation Department's request, workers installed orange traffic barrels in the center of the intersection to help divert merging traffic into separate lanes.
But some shop owners in the area said they had been alarmed at the changes, saying that the sharper traffic angles seemed to direct cars closer than usual to their stores.
Narinder Singh, whose restaurant, Panini Tozt Cafe, was damaged by flying debris in the crash Wednesday, said his employees were afraid to stand behind the counter late at night. Unimpeded by heavy traffic, motorists can drive at high speeds off the bridge, their headlights glaring directly into his store.
Jimmy Van Bramer, a city councilman who represents the neighborhood, said he had heard complaints from constituents about the redesign. He called the similarities between the crashes ''bizarre,'' but wondered if drivers had simply not adjusted to the new arrangement.
''We're all creatures of habit,'' Mr. Van Bramer said. ''It takes some time for people to adjust to the obstacles that are now there.''
The Transportation Department said it would add signs in the next week to remind drivers of the 30 mile per hour speed limit on the bridge. The city also plans to install rumble strips along the off-ramp, which already has multiple signs warning drivers of the curve. ''Thousands of vehicles pass safely each day'' over the off-ramp, the spokesman, Mr. Solomonow, said in a statement.
The initial impact in the crash Wednesday occurred at a guardrail just before the off-ramp curves into the intersection. The car, a 2006 Volkswagen Jetta, struck the guardrail with such force that its stanchion was partially pulled out of the ground.
The car then smashed into the Villa de Beaute salon, very close to the spot where a 2007 Volkswagen Rabbit last week struck and killed Anthony Buscemi, a 68-year-old taxi driver, who was walking along the sidewalk. The driver of that car, a 35-year-old Brooklyn man, lost an arm in the crash; his passenger, a 31-year-old woman, broke an ankle.
Kathy Anderson, who owns a check-cashing business adjacent to the crash site, said her landlord called her early in the morning and said: ''You're never going to believe what just happened again.''
Ms. Anderson described the similarity of the two accidents as surreal.
''I'm such a fatalist,'' she said. ''What happened is going to happen if your number is up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Queensboro Bridge off-ramps in Long Island City, where two cars have crashed, leaving one man dead and others badly hurt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CALEB FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: A Dangerous Path: Two crashes at the same location in Queens in a little more than a week have raised concerns about the configuration of two off-ramps of the Queensboro Bridge. Concrete barriers and orange barrels installed at the intersection have forced vehicles from both off-ramps to navigate a sharper angle while merging onto Queens Plaza South. (MAPS BY N.O.A.A. VIA GOOGLE EARTH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (77%); DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION & REVOCATION (77%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); HEAD INJURIES (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (70%); ARRESTS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



143 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: News Magazines Show Ad Growth, Except Newsweek

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Weekly news magazines fared well in the first three months of the year, according to one closely watched industry barometer - except for Newsweek.
Newsweek, which is in the midst of a reinvention under a new celebrity editor, Tina Brown, and a new deep-pocketed owner, Sidney Harman, is facing difficulty as it tries to recapture the readership and revenue it lost after years of decline. Figures released on Wednesday by the Publishers Information Bureau showed that the number of advertising pages in Newsweek fell 31 percent compared with the same three months last year. 
Compared with other magazines in its category, Newsweek was the outlier. Time, the largest news magazine, with a circulation of more than three million, had a 3 percent increase in ad pages. Ads in both The Economist and The New Yorker rose about 4 percent.
Ad pages at The Week, which started publishing in the United States 10 years ago and has expanded its audience significantly ever since, increased 36 percent in the first quarter. Businessweek, which has undergone an extensive redesign since Bloomberg agreed to buy it in 2009, jumped 49 percent in ad pages.
It is still early under Newsweek's new leadership. The first redesigned issue under Ms. Brown, the former editor of Vanity Fair and The New Yorker, did not make its debut until March 14. And there have been some bright spots in its recent results. The debut issue had 72 percent more ad pages in it than the same issue a year earlier, according to the Media Industry Newsletter. Subsequent issues in March were uneven. Ad pages during the week of March 21 fell 20 percent compared with a year earlier, while the March 28 issue had a 15 percent increase.
Over all, ad pages across all magazines tracked by the bureau jumped 2.5 percent in the first quarter, compared with the first quarter of 2010. There was growth in seven of 12 major advertising categories: toiletries and cosmetics; drugs and remedies; apparel and accessories; media and advertising; automotive; financial, insurance and real estate; and technology.
Categories that declined included retail, food and food products, home furnishings and travel.
There was no clear trend among women's fashion and beauty magazines, typically cash cows for publishers like Hearst, Hachette and Conde Nast. Vogue's ad pages were up 11 percent, InStyle dropped 4 percent, Harper's Bazaar fell 11 percent and Elle rose 15 percent.
Glamour's ad pages grew 6 percent while Cosmopolitan's fell 9 percent.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); TRENDS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); COSMETICS (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (66%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (66%); FOOD INDUSTRY (62%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (61%)

COMPANY: PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: SIDNEY HARMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



144 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Police Lesson: Network Tools Have 2 Edges

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE

 BODY:
Officer Trey Economidy of the Albuquerque police now realizes that he should have thought harder before listing his occupation on his Facebook profile as ''human waste disposal.''
After he was involved in a fatal on-duty shooting in February, a local television station dug up the Facebook page. Officer Economidy was placed on desk duty, and last month the Albuquerque Police Department announced a new policy to govern officers' use of social networking sites.
Social networking tools like Facebook and Twitter can be valuable assets for law enforcement agencies, helping them alert the public, seek information about crimes and gather evidence about the backgrounds of criminal suspects. But the Internet can also get police departments into trouble.
Public gaffes like Officer Economidy's -- his cynical job description on Facebook was ''extremely inappropriate and a lapse in judgment on my part,'' he said last week in an e-mail -- are only one of the risks. A careless posting on a networking site, law enforcement experts say, can endanger an officer's safety, as it did in Santa Monica, Calif., last year when the Police Department went to great lengths to conceal a wounded officer's identity and location, only to have a retired officer inadvertently reveal them on Facebook. 
And defense lawyers increasingly scour social networking sites for evidence that could impeach a police officer's testimony. In one case in New York, a jury dismissed a weapons charge against a defendant after learning that the arresting officer had listed his mood on MySpace as ''devious'' and wrote on Facebook that he was watching the film ''Training Day'' to ''brush up on proper police procedure.''
In an Arkansas case, a federal appeals court cited as evidence of a police officer's character photos he posted on MySpace showing him pointing a gun at the camera, flanked by a skull and the legend ''the PUNISHER.''
The problem is serious enough that departments across the country are scrambling to develop rules to govern what officers can and cannot do online.
''This is something that all the police chiefs around the country, if you're not dealing with it, you better deal with it,'' said Mark A. Marshall, chief of police in Smithfield, Va., and the president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police, which has developed its own model policy.
His department, Chief Marshall said, has had a few embarrassing episodes. In one, an officer who had been involved in a high-speed chase and ended up in ''a little bit of a tussle'' with a suspect posted a comment about what a good time he had during the dust-up. In another, an officer posted a photo of a tattoo of St. Michael on her hip. Both were disciplined, Chief Marshall said.
''Unfortunately, you have these extreme incidents that are out there,'' he said, ''and, candidly, you ask yourself, What on earth were they thinking when they posted that?''
Most social media policies try to balance a police department's interests against First Amendment protections for the officers. Many include prohibitions against posting any statements that could discredit or reflect badly on a department, that illustrate reckless behavior or that disparage people based on race, religion or sexual orientation. Posting crime scene photos or other evidence from criminal cases online is also prohibited by most policies.
Others go further. Albuquerque's policy, for example, prohibits officers from identifying themselves as employees of the Police Department or posting photos of departmental insignia -- badges, uniforms, cruisers -- without permission. And a recent policy by the Police Department in Pueblo, Colo., bans gossiping online with outsiders about department affairs.
Police officials say that the courts have generally upheld restrictions on the speech of government employees when the speech is job related.
''The U.S. Supreme Court has spoken on it so often that the parameters are fairly well defined,'' said Martha Stonebrook, senior city attorney in Salt Lake City, who was a co-author of a paper on social networking in law enforcement given at the international police chiefs association's annual meeting in Orlando last year. In one famous 2004 case, the Supreme Court upheld the firing of an officer who filmed himself stripping off a police uniform and masturbating and sold the video on eBay's adults-only area, using the name Codestud3@aol.com
But David L. Hudson Jr., a scholar at the First Amendment Center at Vanderbilt University, said the lower courts were still sorting out the implications of the Supreme Court's decisions involving job-related speech.
''The question of when employees can be disciplined for off-duty speech is hazy,'' he said. ''Part of our core nature is what we do for a living, and to prohibit somebody from engaging in any kind of expression related to their job is arguably too broad.''
In fact, the Albuquerque policy has met some resistance from the rank and file. Joey Sigala, president of the Albuquerque Police Officers' Association, said that while the department was entitled to dictate what officers wear and say on the clock, ''I don't believe they have the right to tell us what to do outside of that.''
He said that requiring officers to get permission before posting pictures involving department insignia made it difficult to share news about awards or honors spontaneously with family and friends. ''They're taking away the ability to demonstrate the good, as well as the bad,'' he said.
Chief Ray Schultz of the Albuquerque police said that department officials researched policies from around the nation before developing their own.
''You need to get a handle on this very quickly, because this has the potential to damage the reputation of the organization and also adversely affect you in the courtroom,'' Chief Schultz said, adding that some social media sites appeared to be ''like the bathroom wall of 20 years ago, except now the entire world can see it.''
His department, he said, has hired a compliance officer to investigate the online presence of any police officer ''who comes to the attention of the department,'' by examining social network pages and running the officer's name through Google.
Media coverage is often what prompts a department into action. The Indiana State Police initiated its policy after WTHR in Indianapolis discovered photos of drunken revels on a trooper's Facebook page. One showed the trooper, Chris Pestow, with a .357 Magnum pointed at his head. He also posted a comment about a homeless man beaten by police officers in California, saying, ''These people should have died when they were young, anyway, i'm just doing them a favor,'' according to the report by WTHR.
After the controversy, Trooper Pestow resigned, said First Sgt. David Bursten, a spokesman for the State Police. He said he instructs new police officers, ''Don't do or say anything that you wouldn't be proud to have your mother see or hear.''
''That really sums it up,'' he said.
Asked about his experience, Mr. Pestow said in an e-mail, ''A written policy concerning social media from the Indiana State Police prior to my unfortunate misstep would have benefited me considerably.''
Chief Joseph E. Thomas Jr. of the Southfield, Mich., police said that when it comes to social media, it is important for departments to enforce discipline even for small infractions. He cited one instance when an officer photographed goats on a resident's rooftop before confiscating the animals, then posted the photos. The officer was told to remove the photos from the site and given a verbal reprimand.
''That was cute and it was something that did not harm anybody, but it's inappropriate,'' Chief Thomas said.
He said department officials routinely checked police recruits' social networking pages when they apply for a job. In one case, he said, a candidate posted this update on Facebook:
''Just returned from the interview with the Southfield Police Department and I can't wait to get a gun and kick some ass.''
He was rejected.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Officer Trey Economidy says a Facebook posting of his was ''extremely inappropriate.'' (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (94%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); JURY TRIALS (74%); TESTIMONY (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); LAWYERS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



145 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: In the Idyllic Land of Cul-de-Sacs and Crabgrass, a Constancy of Change

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y.
On one of those cold late-March afternoons, we found ourselves at a mostly empty Salvadoran restaurant across the street from the African American Museum of Nassau County.
The green team and the red team were going at it in a thrilling game of barefoot beach-sand soccer on the two flat-screen televisions. Sitting above the liquor bottles on the bar were various figurines -- a Buddha, an elephant, Shrek. There were a few male customers conversing in Spanish who seemed more interested in the two waitresses in form-fitting black outfits than the soccer on Fox Deportes.
It felt like a thoroughly agreeable place to decamp and hang around for a while, but there's never enough time. So there was shrimp and rice stew for lunch, much shouting from the announcer on Fox Deportes, and then it was time to move on. 
Salvadoran Buddha aside, it felt like a fairly representative scene on Long Island today. It's not as if suburbia began on Long Island. Kenneth T. Jackson's classic ''Crabgrass Frontier'' traces it back to the king of Persia in 539 B.C. But if the modern, automobile-centric, mass-produced suburb was defined by Levittown, the largest development built by a single builder, Long Island still looms large in the landscape that now defines America.
Of course, once you think you know that landscape, it's gone or changed. In the 1870s, these general environs were the site of the most ambitiously planned suburb of the 19th century, designed for a population ''desirable in every respect as neighbors, taxpayers and citizens.'' It ended up as one of the great real estate failures of its time.
The notion of some perfectible suburban-exurban idyll persists, but whatever simplistic, monochromatic image lingers from the 19th or 20th century becomes ever less relevant. In 2000, minorities made up almost a quarter of Nassau and Suffolk Counties. Just 10 years later, they represented almost a third of the population of 2.8 million. Hispanics were 15.5 percent. Long Island's vitality is inseparable from its immigrants.
In some ways, there is not much new under the sun. As early as the 1940s, existing communities were bracing against invasions of uncouth suburban hordes certain to undermine their way of life. Much is made of the suddenly tenuous economics of once-comfortable suburbs, but John Cheever, the bard of the most genteel suburban good life, described his fictional suburban village of Shady Hill in 1954 as hanging ''morally and economically from a thread.'' If you're looking for really desperate housewives (and house husbands), try looking there.
But images die hard, and in our corner of the world, New York City sucks up so much of the light that what is outside can fade almost to black -- the burbs, upstate, Jersey, as if that tells us much. Sometimes -- Indian Point, possible gas drilling anywhere near the New York City watershed, Chris Christie's surly star power -- it all feels as if it's one story. Usually, it's the city here, everyone else there.
For almost seven years, doing this column twice weekly has been both a blissful and a hectic mad dash from the Jersey Shore to the Litchfield Hills, from Trenton to Hartford, from Bound Brook, N.J., to Point Lookout, N.Y., trying to reflect the places and people at the near and distant edges of the city's orbit, who increasingly fall off the screen in the winner-take-all news lottery. Charlie Sheen, sure. Flooded Catskill villages, probably not.
It has felt like a thoroughly agreeable place to decamp and hang around, but there's never enough time, so this is my last column. In our dwindling journalistic universe, it's been a chance to try to make sense of the last great fisherman of the Hamptons, the most noble pit bull in Hoboken, graduation night at Sing Sing, kosher gasoline in Teaneck and the struggles of New York's farmers.
So a fond shout-out to the critters of our realm: moose! wild parakeets! Champ, the sea serpent of Lake Champlain! Heartfelt thanks to humble purveyors of chili, burgers and dogs: Hubba's in Port Chester! the Red Rooster in Brewster! Rutt's Hut in Clifton! Best wishes to the rebbe of Woodstock, to the Tims and Rocky the Horse in Montclair, Lydia Alcock's $23 quadrillion Visa bill, the Greenwich Wiffle Ball War and Nina Sankovitch of Westport, Conn., who read a whole book every day from Oct. 28, 2008, to Oct. 28, 2009, and now, of course, has written one about it.
I'm going to keep covering similar turf at a less frenzied pace and often at greater length, so if you have ideas, please continue to send them on. And remember: Whatever happens, we'll always have Xanadu.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The feel of El Pacifico, an agreeable place to decamp and hang around in Hempstead, Nassau County, is not so distinct from so much of Long Island. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SUBURBS (89%); SOCCER (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); MEN (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



146 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: To Renovate, and Surpass, City's Legacy

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS -- As Democrats and Republicans continue to feud over the budget, and the federal government prepares to shut down, the effect of the budget war on the fate of a single proposal for the renovation of a dilapidated public housing project in New Orleans may seem inconsequential.
The proposal, which calls for transforming the 1940s Iberville complex in downtown New Orleans into a denser mixed-income neighborhood, with town houses and new low-rise buildings interspersed among the existing three-story apartment blocks, would result in a total of more than 2,400 units of housing on and around the site.
It is one of several finalists vying for a share of $61 million in grants from the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which House Republicans are trying to cut. The federal money would be only a small portion of the roughly $500 million needed to complete the project, but it is the crucial first step in the city's public-private financing plan to remake Iberville. 
If the money doesn't come through, it will not only be a significant backward step in the rebuilding of New Orleans, it will also short-circuit a promising new model for housing the poor in cities across the country.
The most ambitious and far-reaching example of HUD's approach to public housing promoted under President Obama, the project is a comprehensive effort to link housing to jobs and transportation. In doing so, it could begin to undo a pattern of racial discrimination that extends back decades.
Built in the early 1940s, during the era of segregation, Iberville began as a whites-only housing project midway between the raucous bars of the French Quarter and Claiborne Avenue, a broad tree-lined boulevard that was then a bustling African-American commercial strip.
A reflection of early tabula rasa planning strategies, the complex was made up of identical brick buildings organized around a series of shaded lawns. Unlike the oppressive tower-in-the-park projects of the postwar era, these buildings had a modest, human scale, with quaint wrought-iron balconies and terra cotta roofs. And they were supported by a wide range of federally financed social services, from clinics to garden clubs.
By the mid-60s the exodus of middle-class whites to the suburbs was transforming many American cities, and New Orleans was no exception. North Claiborne Avenue was bulldozed to make room for an elevated expressway. Maintenance and public services at the city's housing projects were cut back. Within a decade Iberville, like urban housing projects across the country, had become a warehouse for its city's poorest African-Americans.
This picture of racial inequity was only reinforced in the chaos that followed Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Many of those returning to the city's housing projects after the storm found that HUD had boarded up their apartments even, as was sometimes the case, when there was little damage from the storm. The department treated Katrina as a chance to remake New Orleans's public housing. Within a few years three of the biggest projects had been demolished to make room for suburban-style mixed-income developments.
In the view of several local housing advocates Iberville, which sustained only minor damage in the hurricane and its aftermath, survived because dozens of families managed to move back in before housing officials could lock them out. The Iberville proposal, which was submitted by the Housing Authority of New Orleans and the City of New Orleans, following guidelines set by HUD, is a chance to undo a legacy of injustice.
To ensure that the city doesn't lose units of public housing, as cities across the country have since the 1990s, the plan calls for increasing the number of units on and around the site. Fifty of Iberville's 74 existing buildings would be demolished to make room for a richer variety of midrise apartment buildings and town houses. The 24 that would remain would be renovated in an effort to maintain some of the site's historic texture.
Yet the key to the proposed plan is its provisions for breaking down the physical and economic barriers that have long separated Iberville from the surrounding city. The plan calls for demolishing the elevated expressway and replacing it with a new ground-level boulevard, an idea first proposed by the nonprofit Congress for the New Urbanism that is not only sound urban planning but would redress a wrong that is now nearly 50 years old. (HUD and the Transportation Department have already provided money to study this component of the plan; the federal government would eventually have to foot the bill for most or all of it.)
The smaller streets that once crisscrossed the site -- and were blocked off when the housing project went up 70 years ago -- would be rebuilt. And last year the Transportation Department awarded a grant to help build a new tram line serving Iberville that would run parallel to the site's southern edge, linking it to the business district at one end and Armstrong Park at the other.
This effort to reintegrate the poor into the city around them is coupled with a recognition that any sane public housing policy has to be tied to economic opportunity. The new tram line is not a tourist attraction; it would connect to another federal project, an $800 million Veterans Affairs hospital now under construction a few blocks away that government officials say could provide hundreds of low- to mid-level jobs, some of them for people who would be living in Iberville housing. City planners also hope to use federal funds to transform a series of derelict lots along the site's southwest border into a mix of shops and housing, linking it to a cluster of theaters across the street and the jobs that neighborhood, too, could provide.
There are those in New Orleans, of course, who will remain understandably suspicious of any large-scale government planning effort, especially given the tragic story of government ineptitude that followed the storm. And from an urban planning standpoint many questions remain unanswered.
Given the high quality of the existing buildings' construction, it is unclear that so many of them need to be demolished. And there are more inventive ways to think about the design of the new buildings than the ersatz French Quarter style that the current plan seems to call for. (Why not explore architectural precedents from other periods in the city's history? Or create a housing model that is in tune with how people live today?)
Still, the plan represents the most promising take on public housing in America that we've seen in decades. Seventy-five years after the creation of the first housing authority, this proposal recognizes that sound urban planning, aggressive social policy and an awareness of history are inseparably intertwined. And in doing so, it promises to repair some of the physical and social wounds that endure from the era of segregation. Its premature death would signal how far we are from escaping that legacy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Iberville public housing project, which opened in New Orleans in the early 1940s, is slated for renovation.(C1)
' The New Orleans plan to renovate the Iberville housing project aims to reintegrate the poor into their city and to foster economic opportunity. The entire project could cost $500 million. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA ESSEX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Decades ago: Children playing paddle tennis in the Iberville project, in an undated photograph. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOUISIANA DIVISION, NEW ORLEANS PUBLIC LIBRARY)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RACE & RACISM (86%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (72%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); SUBURBS (71%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (71%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (69%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (99%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



147 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: Rush to Use Crops as Fuel Raises Food Prices and Hunger Fears

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
The starchy cassava root has long been an important ingredient in everything from tapioca pudding and ice cream to paper and animal feed.
But last year, 98 percent of cassava chips exported from Thailand, the world's largest cassava exporter, went to just one place and almost all for one purpose: to China to make biofuel. Driven by new demand, Thai exports of cassava chips have increased nearly fourfold since 2008, and the price of cassava has roughly doubled.
Each year, an ever larger portion of the world's crops -- cassava and corn, sugar and palm oil -- is being diverted for biofuels as developed countries pass laws mandating greater use of nonfossil fuels and as emerging powerhouses like China seek new sources of energy to keep their cars and industries running. Cassava is a relatively new entrant in the biofuel stream.
But with food prices rising sharply in recent months, many experts are calling on countries to scale back their headlong rush into green fuel development, arguing that the combination of ambitious biofuel targets and mediocre harvests of some crucial crops is contributing to high prices, hunger and political instability. 
This year, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization reported that its index of food prices was the highest in its more than 20 years of existence. Prices rose 15 percent from October to January alone, potentially ''throwing an additional 44 million people in low- and middle-income countries into poverty,'' the World Bank said.
Soaring food prices have caused riots or contributed to political turmoil in a host of poor countries in recent months, including Algeria, Egypt and Bangladesh, where palm oil, a common biofuel ingredient, provides crucial nutrition to a desperately poor populace. During the second half of 2010, the price of corn rose steeply -- 73 percent in the United States -- an increase that the United Nations World Food Programattributed in part to the greater use of American corn for bioethanol.
''The fact that cassava is being used for biofuel in China, rapeseed is being used in Europe, and sugar cane elsewhere is definitely creating a shift in demand curves,'' said Timothy D. Searchinger, a research scholar at Princeton University who studies the topic. ''Biofuels are contributing to higher prices and tighter markets.''
In the United States, Congress has mandated that biofuel use must reach 36 billion gallons annually by 2022. The European Union stipulates that 10 percent of transportation fuel must come from renewable sources like biofuel or wind power by 2020. Countries like China, India, Indonesia and Thailand have adopted biofuel targets as well.
To be sure, many factors help drive up the price of food, including bad weather that ruins crop yields and high oil prices that make transportation costly. Last year, for example, unusually severe weather destroyed wheat harvests in Russia, Australia and China, and an infestation of the mealy bug reduced Thailand's cassava output.
Olivier Dubois, a bioenergy expert at the Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome, said it was hard to quantify the extent to which the diversions for biofuels had driven up food prices.
''The problem is complex, so it is hard to come up with sweeping statements like biofuels are good or bad,'' he said. ''But what is certain is that biofuels are playing a role. Is it 20 or 30 or 40 percent? That depends on your modeling.''
While no one is suggesting that countries abandon biofuels, Mr. Dubois and other food experts suggest that they should revise their policies so that rigid fuel mandates can be suspended when food stocks get low or prices become too high.
''The policy really has to be food first,'' said Hans Timmer, director of the Development Prospects Group of the World Bank. ''The problems occur when you set targets for biofuels irrespective of the prices of other commodities.''
Mr. Timmer said that the recent rise in oil prices was likely to increase the demand for biofuels.
It can be tricky predicting how new demand from the biofuel sector will affect the supply and price of food. Sometimes, as with corn or cassava, direct competition between purchasers drives up the prices of biofuel ingredients. In other instances, shortages and price inflation occur because farmers who formerly grew crops like vegetables for consumption plant different crops that can be used for fuel.
China learned this the hard way nearly a decade ago when it set out to make bioethanol from corn, only to discover that the plan caused alarming shortages and a rise in food prices. In 2007 the government banned the use of grains to make biofuel.
Chinese scientists then perfected the process of making fuel from cassava, a root that yielded good energy returns, leading to the opening of the first commercial cassava ethanol plant several years ago.
''They're moving very aggressively in this new direction; cassava seems to be the go-to crop,'' said Greg Harris, an analyst with Commodore Research and Consultancy in New York who has studied the trade.
In addition to expanding cassava cultivation at home, China is buying from Cambodia and Laos as well as Thailand.
Although a mainstay of diets in much of Africa, cassava is not central to Asian diets, even though the Chinese once called it ''the underground food store'' because it provided crucial backup nutrition in lean harvest years. So the Chinese reasoned that making fuel with cassava would not directly affect food prices or create food shortages, at least at home. The proportion of Chinese cassava going to ethanol leapt to 52 percent last year from 10 percent in 2008.
More distant or indirect impacts are considered to be likely, however. Because cassava chips have been commonly used as animal feed, new demand from the biofuels industry might affect the availability and cost of meat. In Southeast Asian countries where China is paying generously for stockpiles of cassava, farmers may be tempted to grow the crop instead of, for example, other vegetables or rice.
And if China turned to Africa as a source, one of that continent's staple food crops could be in jeopardy, although experts note that exporting cassava could also become a business opportunity.
''This is becoming a more valuable cash crop,'' Mr. Harris said. ''The farmland is limited, so the more that is devoted to fuel, the less is devoted to food.''
The Chinese demand for cassava could also dent planned biofuel production in poorer Asian nations: in the Philippines and Cambodia, developers were recently forced to suspend the construction of cassava bioethanol plants because the tuber had become too expensive.
Thailand's own nascent biofuel industry may have trouble getting the homegrown cassava it needs because it may not be able to match the prices offered by Chinese buyers, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization.
Biofuels development in wealthier nations has already proved to have a powerful effect on the prices and the cultivation of crops. Encouraged by national biofuel subsidies, nearly 40 percent of the corn grown in the United States now goes to make fuel, with prices of corn on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange rising 73 percent from June to December 2010.
Such price rises also have distant ripple effects, food security experts say. ''How much does the price of corn in Chicago influence the price of corn in Rwanda? It turns out there is a correlation,'' said Marie Brill, senior policy analyst at ActionAid, an international development group. The price of corn in Rwanda rose 19 percent last year.
''For Americans it may mean a few extra cents for a box of cereal,'' she said. ''But that kind of increase puts corn out of the range of impoverished people.''
Higher prices also mean that groups like the World Food Program can buy less food to feed the world's hungry.
European biofuels developers are buying large tracts of what they call ''marginal land'' in Africa with the aim of cultivating biofuel crops, particularly the woody bush known as jatropha. Advocates say that promoting jatropha for biofuels production has little impact on food supplies. But some of that land is used by poor people for subsistence farming or for gathering food like wild nuts.
''We have to move away from the thinking that producing an energy crop doesn't compete with food,'' said Mr. Dubois of the Food and Agriculture Organization. ''It almost inevitably does.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Farmers in Thailand face a surging demand for cassava, a fairly new crop for biofuel production. (A1)
Thailand's cassava goes mainly to China, which has sought new energy sources to power growth. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AGNES DHERBEYS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHARTS: Diverting Food to Fuel: More than ever, grain is being used for biofuels rather than food consumption. This trend started to take off in 2004
by 2010, 6 percent of all grain went into making biofuels. The diversion is a contributing factor in rising food prices. (The grains factored in here include barley, corn, millet, mixed grains, oats, milled rice, rye, sorghum, wheat and durum wheat.) (Sources: United States Department of Agriculture
 Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (92%); FOOD PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); BIOMASS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); ANIMAL FOODS (90%); LIVESTOCK FEED (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); WEATHER (83%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); CORN MARKETS (76%); NUTRITION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); WIND ENERGY (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); ETHANOL (71%); WHEAT FARMING (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (59%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); THAILAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EGYPT (79%); INDIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



148 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Talks Go On But Yield No Deal As Deadline Nears

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and JACKIE CALMES; Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama and Congressional leaders said Wednesday that a latenight White House bargaining session produced no budget breakthrough that would avert a government shutdown this weekend but agreed the two sides had narrowed the issues in efforts to strike a deal.
Emerging from a 90-minute meeting with Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, and Speaker John A. Boehner, the president said aides would work through the night and he and Mr. Reid expressed optimism that a compromise could be reached. ''I remain confident that if we're serious about getting something done, we should be able to complete a deal and get it passed and avert a shutdown,'' Mr. Obama said. 
Mr. Boehner, well aware of a Republican rank-and-file unsure about giving much ground, stressed that no deal had been struck but said Republicans also wanted to break the impasse
''There is an intent on both sides to continue to work together to try to resolve this,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''No one wants the government to shut down.''
The session sets up a last-ditch effort to beat the clock and find an agreement that would keep the government operating after financing expires Friday. The unusual nighttime meeting came after top lawmakers and senior Congressional aides reported progress in confidential budget talks between the House and Senate earlier on Wednesday while the president warned that a government shutdown would cut off popular services and stall the economic recovery.
''Companies don't like uncertainty,'' Mr. Obama said during a town-hall-style meeting on energy near Philadelphia, ''and if they start seeing that suddenly we may have a shutdown of our government, that could halt momentum right when we need to build it up -- all because of politics.''
Congressional negotiators were called to the White House as the deadline essentially passed for House consideration of a budget compromise before financing for government agencies runs out Friday. If a deal was reached, a stopgap measure could conceivably be passed, providing a few days' grace period that would keep agencies operating until a full budget could be considered next week.
Determined to put the ball in the Democratic court, Mr. Boehner said the Republican House would vote Thursday on a plan that would keep the government open for another week, extract $12 billion in reductions to spending and fully finance the Pentagon through Sept. 30.
But the president and Senate Democrats have said that proposal will not advance. Mr. Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, described the planned vote as an attempt by the Republicans to create a distraction from their unwillingness to compromise.
''It is time for my friends in the House of Representatives to stop campaigning and start governing,'' Mr. Reid said Wednesday evening on the Senate floor. Both sides sought to skirt blame for an impasse that threatened to leave visitors to national parks and museums on the outside looking in this weekend, with wider repercussions coming Monday if government offices closed on Friday but did not reopen.
The decision by the House leadership to push ahead with the short-term measure came despite the fact that both sides acknowledged that the outlook for an agreement had improved slightly after a face-to-face meeting on Tuesday afternoon between Mr. Reid and Mr. Boehner, both veteran Congressional deal makers.
''We've made some progress, yes,'' said Mr. Boehner, of Ohio, after a private meeting of House Republicans. ''But we are not finished, not by a long shot.''
As top aides to Mr. Boehner and Mr. Reid exchanged proposals and counterproposals, Democrats said the talks had remained in the neighborhood of $33 billion in spending reductions though Mr. Boehner sought $40 billion on Tuesday in a new offer that surprised Democrats.
Democrats have signaled a willingness to go deeper into the budget depending on how the cuts are spread across federal agencies, with Democrats seeking to lessen the impact on health and education programs.
''There's been a direct negotiation -- things put on the table that had not been discussed before -- and I think we're moving toward closure,'' Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, told reporters. Democrats also said they expect to make concessions on the policy provisions and regulatory restrictions that Republicans are insisting be in any final deal.
Still, time was running out. House officials said that under the rules of the Republican majority, a full budget bill would have to have been introduced by Wednesday night in order to be considered on the House floor on Friday, the day financing expires.
The leadership could cite emergency circumstances to waive the rule if a compromise was reached. In addition, as President Obama said Tuesday, a temporary budget could be approved for a few days while the legislation providing money through Sept. 30 was written and submitted for votes in the House and Senate.
Even though Mr. Obama said Tuesday that he would not sign more short-term spending plans, the White House spokesman, Jay Carney, said Wednesday that the president could go along with one if it was just to provide time to write a budget bill and ''get it through the process on Capitol Hill.''
Administration officials on Wednesday privately expressed increasing frustration that Congressional leaders seemed unable to resolve the dispute and were not showing sufficient urgency in trying to come to an agreement.
Appearing before reporters after his party meeting, Mr. Boehner said he found Mr. Obama's handling of the budget fight lacking. ''I've got to tell you all that I like the president personally,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''We get along well. But the president isn't leading.
He didn't lead on last year's budget, and he clearly is not leading on this year's budget.''
The one-week stopgap drafted by House Republicans would provide money through Sept. 30 for the Pentagon, which has said the budget fight is causing considerable problems for the military.
The inclusion of the military spending should win support for the bill even from House conservatives who had previously said they would not back any more temporary spending measures.
It also allows Republicans to say they are making certain that troops fighting overseas do not miss a paycheck.
''We have people today fighting for our liberty and our freedom,'' said Representative Kevin Mc- Carthy of California, the No. 3 House Republican. ''You do not want to pay them?''
Republicans also expect that the military money will put added pressure on Democrats to back the measure, though they do not seem inclined to do so.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Capitol Visitor Center would be among the places idled in a government shutdown. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HARRY REID (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



149 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Departing U.S. Envoy Criticizes China on Human Rights

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Ian Johnson contributed reporting from Berlin, and Edward Wong from Beijing.

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- The departing American ambassador, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., criticized China's human rights record on Wednesday in some of the sharpest public comments here yet by a United States official since the Chinese government began a crackdown on dissent this year. 
Using a high-profile annual lecture on Chinese-American relations to make his final public address as ambassador, Mr. Huntsman said bluntly that prominent Chinese activists had been unfairly detained or jailed, naming Liu Xiaobo, the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize winner, who is serving an 11-year prison sentence for ''subversion,'' and Ai Weiwei, the Beijing artist who was taken into custody on Sunday.
Mr. Huntsman also accused China of wrongly imprisoning Xue Feng, an American geologist who was gathering information on the oil industry and accused of stealing state secrets.
''The United States will never stop supporting human rights because we believe in the fundamental struggle for human dignity and justice wherever it may occur,'' said Mr. Huntsman, who leaves his diplomatic post this month amid speculation he may seek the Republican nomination for president.
Foreign diplomats normally avoid such open criticism of Chinese policies and actions here, to avoid complicating relations and embarrassing top officials. Usually, that restraint is especially in play in forums drawing an elite domestic audience or major media attention.
But Mr. Huntsman's speech, made one day after the State Department called for Mr. Ai's immediate release, praised the artist and other prominent activists, saying they ''challenged the Chinese government to serve the public in all cases at all times.''
In Berlin, Germany's foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, summoned the Chinese ambassador to protest Mr. Ai's detention. American and European Union officials have expressed concern about his safety.
Mr. Ai was detained Sunday while trying to board a flight to Hong Kong from Beijing. His studio and offices were raided, and his wife and a number of staff members were taken to police stations for questioning. All but one was released.
Xinhua, the state news agency, released a one-line report late Wednesday that said Mr. Ai's economic activities were under scrutiny. ''Police said late Wednesday they are investigating Ai Weiwei for suspected economic crimes in accordance with the law,'' the report said. Mr. Ai's wife, Lu Qing, told The Associated Press that the police seized computers and money from their home after he was detained at the airport.
Mr. Ai's arrest appears to be part of the government's attempt to stifle dissent among activists who may be trying to emulate the protests and demonstrations in recent months in North Africa and the Middle East. Chinese security officers have detained activists, tightened controls over the Internet and the Chinese news media, and harassed and threatened foreign journalists.
In his speech, Mr. Huntsman seemed to hint at the recent clampdown by saying, ''Cutting off dialogue and suppressing the news media do not help.'' He later added, ''We cannot move forward if, when differences emerge, only one of us is fully engaged.''
Mr. Huntsman, a former governor of Utah and a fluent Mandarin speaker and experienced Asia hand, was appointed by President Obama in 2009. If he does seek the Republican nomination, the connection to the administration could count against him; a strong stance on China could serve as a counterbalance.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ambassador Jon M. Huntsman Jr. said Chinese activists had been unfairly detained. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); SENTENCING (76%); PRISONS (76%); ARRESTS (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); LARCENY & THEFT (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); JOURNALISM (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (54%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



150 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Senate Rejects Bills to Limit E.P.A.'s Emissions Programs

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate on Wednesday rejected efforts to block the Environmental Protection Agency's program to regulate greenhouse gases, defeating four bills that would have limited the agency's attempts to address global warming.
The Senate voted as the House was debating a measure that would also halt the regulations by repealing the agency's scientific finding that carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases are endangering human health and the environment. That bill is expected to pass the House on Thursday. President Obama has vowed to veto any such measure if it should reach his desk.
In the Senate, a virtually identical bill sponsored by Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, both Republicans, was attached to an unrelated small-business bill. The measure drew 50 votes, including 4 from Democrats, but fell shy of the 60 needed to avert a filibuster. 
Democratic alternatives that would impose less extreme limits on the E.P.A. regulation drew as many as 12 votes, putting the White House on notice that it risks further party defections unless it moderates the scale and pace of its proposed carbon rules.
Mr. Obama has consistently opposed any effort that hinders the administration's efforts to restrict emissions that scientists say are warming the atmosphere and leading to unpredictable and potentially devastating changes in the global climate.
The White House welcomed the Senate votes in a statement, saying, ''The administration is encouraged by the Senate's actions today to defend the Environmental Protection Agency's ability to protect public health under the Clean Air Act.''
It continued: ''By rejecting efforts to roll back E.P.A.'s common-sense steps to safeguard Americans from harmful pollution, the Senate also rejected an approach that would have increased the nation's dependence on oil, contradicted the scientific consensus on global warming, and jeopardized America's ability to lead the world in the clean energy economy. The Clean Air Act is a vital tool in protecting our families -- particularly children -- from a wide variety of harmful pollutants that cause asthma and lung disease, and the administration remains committed to protecting this important law.''
Congress thus remains deadlocked on the E.P.A.'s authority to regulate carbon dioxide as a pollutant. But efforts to handcuff the environmental agency are not likely to end here. Republican leaders are pushing to attach similar measures to the budget bill that is now being negotiated by administration and Congressional officials. If that fails, they can be expected to try again on debt ceiling or fiscal year 2012 budget bills.
Mr. McConnell said that the 50 votes for his bill and the Democratic votes for the less draconian alternatives demonstrated a bipartisan majority in favor of thwarting the E.P.A.'s plans to regulate greenhouse gases.
''Altogether, more than 60 senators voted in favor of four amendments that, to one degree or another, would restrain the E.P.A.'s power to regulate carbon emissions from farmers, manufacturers and power plants,'' Mr. McConnell said after the vote. ''We in the Senate will continue to fight for legislation that will give the certainty that no unelected bureaucrat at the E.P.A. is going to make efforts to create jobs even more difficult than the administration already has.''
Wednesday's votes came less than two years after the House passed the most ambitious climate change and energy bill ever considered in Congress, a measure that would have created a nationwide trading system to curb carbon emissions. That bill died in the Senate, and opposition to cap and trade became a successful 2010 political platform point for Tea Party groups and their financers in fossil fuel industries. Nearly all Republicans elected in the midterm election expressed doubt about the science of global warming and opposed regulation of climate-altering gases.
The E.P.A. has begun a program of regulating carbon dioxide emissions that will unfold over the next several years, beginning with the largest stationary emitters like power plants, factories and oil refineries.
The agency is already regulating greenhouse gas emissions from cars and light trucks to be sold over the next five years under an agreement negotiated with states and automakers. The House bill would allow that program to proceed but bars any future regulations on greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, was a cosponsor of a bill seeking to repeal the E.P.A.'s finding on the health and environmental dangers of heat-trapping gases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ASTHMA (78%); POLITICS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); VETO (78%); FAMILY (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); DEBT CEILING (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); BUDGETS (66%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JIM INHOFE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



151 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: The Long-Term Jobless

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''U.S. Posts a Gain of 216,000 Jobs, a Lift for Obama'' (front page, April 2): 
I was laid off four years ago. Despite the fact that I continue to look for a job, I -- and millions of others like me -- are tagged as having ''given up,'' passively waiting for conditions to improve.
You report: ''For several months now, economists have expressed hope that unemployed Americans will take heart from signs of new hiring and re-enter the work force. That did not happen in March.''
The assumption that we are sitting on the sidelines waiting for the starter's gun to fire is both untrue and insulting, a cruel case of blaming the victims. We send out resumes, we search online, we seek people out, we meet in discussion groups.
We are not the ones who have given up -- we can't afford to. It is employers who stigmatize long-term unemployment as a liability who have given up on us. JON REINER New York, April 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



152 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Tech Stocks Bolster Market, Following Cisco Higher

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Technology stocks rose Wednesday after the chief executive of Cisco Systems promised to take ''bold steps'' to narrow the company's focus.
Cisco rose nearly 5 percent, the most of any stock in the Dow Jones industrial average. The chief executive, John T. Chambers, said in a memo to employees that recent missteps were ''unacceptable.'' Analysts say the company is overly reliant on revenue from state and local governments. Mr. Chambers promised that major changes were coming, though he offered few specifics. 
Other technology companies also rose. Hewlett-Packard rose 2.2 percent, while Microsoft and the chip maker Qualcomm each rose more than 1 percent. Broadcom gained 3.9 percent after an Oppenheimer analyst said the semiconductor company would benefit from higher sales of mobile phones.
Chip stocks were still a big focus for investors since Texas Instruments said Monday that it would pay $6.5 billion in cash for National Semiconductor.
Materials and energy companies fell. Monsanto, the seed company, lost 5.7 percent after it issued an earnings forecast for the year that fell below analysts' expectations.
Energy companies fell the most of any group within the S.& P. 500 index. Halliburton and Baker Hughes each lost more than 2 percent. The Energy Information Administration said crude supplies in the United States grew more than expected last week, rising by two million barrels. Analysts expected an increase of 1.3 million barrels. Gasoline demand also dropped by 112,000 barrels a day.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 32.85 points, or 0.27 percent, to 12,426.75. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 2.91 points, or 0.22 percent, to 1,335.54. The Nasdaq composite index rose 8.63 points, or 0.31 percent, to 2,799.82.
Oil prices rose, passing $109 a barrel at one point, as the dollar mostly weakened against major foreign currencies. The euro climbed to a 15-month high a day before the European Central Bank was expected to increase interest rates.
Traders want to see how higher prices for oil, gas and other raw materials are affecting corporate profits. They will get their first glimpse next Monday, when Alcoa reports its first-quarter earnings, providing the unofficial start of earnings season.
Abercrombie & Fitch rose 3 percent after several analysts raised their price targets on the company, citing the retailer's strong 2012 earnings outlook and international prospects.
Interest rates rose. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 17/32, to 100 21/32, and the yield rose to 3.55 percent from 3.48 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (74%); OIL & GAS FIELD EQUIPMENT MFG (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); GASOLINE (73%); EURO (72%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); RETAILERS (68%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); INTEREST RATES (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (97%); BAKER HUGHES INC (82%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (80%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); QUALCOMM INC (57%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (56%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (56%); BROADCOM CORP (56%); MONSANTO CO (55%); ALCOA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (97%); BHI (SWX) (82%); BHI (NYSE) (82%); ANF (NYSE) (80%); AFT (FRA) (80%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (57%); TXN (NASDAQ) (56%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (56%); MON (NYSE) (55%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (97%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (82%); SIC3533 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (82%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (82%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (80%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (80%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (55%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (55%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



153 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Colombia Trade Deal Advances

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
With the announcement on Wednesday that it has extracted labor rights concessions from Colombia to advance a trade deal, the Obama administration is now two-thirds of the way toward meeting Republican demands that three languishing trade agreements be sent to Congress for approval.
Senior administration officials hailed what they called an action plan in which Colombia promised to expand its protection program for labor union leaders, to enforce its labor laws more vigorously and to hire 480 more labor inspectors over four years. The White House announced that Colombia's president, Juan Manuel Santos, would travel to Washington on Thursday to formally announce the agreement with President Obama.
Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative, said he believed the plan would set the stage for a ''very strong vote'' in Congress on the trade deal. But neither he nor Michael Froman, the White House international economic affairs adviser, would say when that vote might happen, partly because Republicans want to see another trade pact with Panama completed before taking up any more votes on trade. That holdup also includes action on confirming a successor to Gary F. Locke as commerce secretary. Mr. Locke was nominated last month by the president to become ambassador to China. 
This is the second time that the United States has reached a trade agreement with Colombia. The Bush administration did so in 2007, but Democrats in Congress, backed by labor unions, opposed that agreement, along with the Panama and South Korea pacts, arguing that American jobs could be lost and that the deals did not provide enough access for American companies.
The Obama administration did not move on the trade pacts until late last year, when it renegotiated the deal with South Korea and extracted a few additional concessions. But Republicans, angry that the administration had taken so long to push forward what they viewed as completed trade agreements, demanded that all three be sent to Congress before they voted on any. They also said they would not approve Mr. Locke's successor.
''Any further delay of these agreements is unnecessary and inexcusable,'' Senate Republicans wrote in a March 14 letter to the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada. ''So important are these deals to our economy and our relations with these key allies in Latin America that, until the president submits both agreements to Congress for approval and commits to signing implementing legislation into law, we will use all the tools at our disposal to force action, including withholding support for any nominee for commerce secretary and any trade-related nominees.''
Mr. Kirk, during a conference call with reporters, insisted that the administration would not be beholden to Republican demands and timetables. But he also expressed optimism that the third pending trade deal, the one with Panama, might be done soon.
''There are some signs today that the administration is beginning to take seriously a pending trade agreement with Colombia,'' the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said in a statement. Mr. McConnell urged the administration to send Panama, South Korea and Colombia to Congress ''soon.''
But even if he gets Republicans on board, Mr. Obama still must navigate a tricky road with his own party, which has long been more wary of free-trade pacts. The reason for the delays in the pacts has been to try to assuage concern among Democrats and their labor backers.
Unions in the United States have long fought to block approval of the free-trade agreement with Colombia, asserting that the country has done too little to protect union leaders and activists, more than 3,000 of whom have been killed in the last three decades. Colombian officials said they had significantly reduced the killings in recent years.
Administration officials voiced confidence that the trade pact with Colombia would increase United States exports to that country, now $12 billion a year, by $1 billion annually.
Mr. Kirk said that the Santos government had adopted the action plan after intense talks with the Obama administration. ''The plan significantly expands the protections of labor leaders and organizers,'' he said. ''It bolsters efforts to punish those who have perpetrated violence against union members, and we think substantially strengthens their laws and enforcement.''
Under the deal, the Colombian government said it would provide more protection to labor advocates, including shop stewards, union organizers and bargaining committee members. It also agreed to eliminate its current backlog of risk assessments of union leaders and members who have requested government protection. It also said it would revise its plan to relocate and protect teachers who were considered at high risk of violence.
Colombia said it would enact, by June 15, tougher measures to criminalize actions that affected workers' rights, including threats. The government also will direct the national police to assign 95 investigators, no later than this December, to support prosecutors handling cases of crimes against union members.
But in a sign that opposition would not be easily overcome, A.F.L.-C.I.O. said in a statement that it remained ''strongly opposed'' to the Colombia trade agreement, although it said it would consult with the Obama administration and unions in Colombia about the deal.
The labor federation noted that 51 trade unionists were murdered in Colombia last year. ''We have no doubt that if 51 C.E.O.s had been murdered in Colombia last year, this deal would be on a very slow track indeed,'' the statement said adding, ''The situation in Colombia remains unacceptably violent for trade unionists.''
Representative Louise Slaughter, Democrat of New York, said she also would continue to oppose the Colombia trade deal, which she said ''turns a blind eye to rampant human rights violations and antilabor practices of Colombia.''
Under the agreement, more than 80 percent of American consumer and industrial goods shipped to Colombia would become duty-free immediately, with the remainder having duties phased out over 10 years. On agricultural goods, more than half would become duty-free, with duties ending for the remaining goods over 15 years.
Administration officials say that they expect that completing the Colombia deal could increase pressure on the Panamanian government to address outstanding issues in those negotiations. In Panama, the Obama administration has been pushing the government to adopt more transparent tax laws. One administration official said that the United States hoped that Panama would soon agree to a tax-information exchange that would break the impasse by the end of the month.
The United States Chamber of Commerce hailed the Colombia deal, saying chamber officials would work with the White House and Congress to secure approval of the three pending free trade agreements.
''Presidents Obama and Santos showed courage and pragmatism in striking this accord,'' said Thomas J. Donohue, the chamber's president. ''This proves the United States can still lead on trade.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in Ipiales, Colombia, last month opposed a free-trade deal with the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILSON PRADO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GARY LOCKE (78%); JUAN MANUEL SANTOS (58%); RON KIRK (58%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



154 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: A Showdown Over America's Budget

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Budget Battles: Republicans Maneuver Toward a Shutdown'' (editorial, April 6):
Though it is admirable and necessary that our leaders ultimately balance the nation's budget and seek to pay down our catastrophic national debt, we must focus on the means to actively increase revenue rather than passively reaping ever-diminishing returns.
That can occur in two primary ways: The first is to expand and improve our economy. This can occur by supporting research and development and by producing more than we currently consume. The second method is to extract revenue more equitably from our citizens and the businesses that profit from them. 
Today, it is patently obvious that the wealthiest Americans and our largest corporations (like General Electric) do not pay their fair share in taxes. Without reinvesting more of these profits into America's future, we will all ultimately be doomed as a nation.
MICHAEL PRAVICA Henderson, Nev., April 6, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''The Budget Battles: Prosperity for Whom?'' (editorial, April 6):
How much sacrifice is the Republican Party willing to demand from the most vulnerable segments of our population for the sake of fattening the bank accounts of the richest citizens? Is our country foolish enough or desperate enough to sell out the poorest among us based on a consistently broken promise that enriching the wealthiest few will result in the scraps trickling down to feed the rest of us?
If our nation's voters are able to consider this proposal carefully and still elect the plan's supporters in 2012, I may finally lose all faith in the decency of our electorate. JOSEPH MAGGIO Lanoka Harbor, N.J., April 6, 2011
To the Editor:
Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Budget Committee chairman, is the $6 trillion man. He stands alone as having the initiative, imagination and strong sense of responsibility to put forth a dynamic proposal that if enacted will put the country on a sustainable fiscal path.
With luck, President Obama will seize this opportunity to work with Representative Ryan to get our financial house in order for the sake of our children, grandchildren and future generations.
PAUL SCHOENBAUM Williamsburg, Va., April 6, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''G.O.P. Blueprint Would Remake Health Policy'' (front page, April 5):
Congress should be ashamed over plans to cut Medicare and Medicaid and other social programs while allowing huge tax breaks for the wealthy -- both individuals and corporations -- in addition to the huge outlay for the military.
People in the United States ought to be asking why it is that other countries are able to provide decent health care, child care, less expensive college educations and forms of social security for all their citizens while here all these programs are under attack. Clearly, something is amiss with our values and priorities.
CAROL DELANEY Providence, R.I., April 5, 2011
To the Editor:
In ''Moment of Truth'' (column, April 4), David Brooks calls Representative Paul D. Ryan's budget plan, which would require middle-class Americans to keep on paying for multibillion-dollar tax loopholes for corporations and tax cuts for the wealthy, ''courageous.'' He insists that Mr. Ryan, in proposing draconian cuts, has ''grasped reality'' in the face of a public unwilling to choose between tax increases and spending cuts.
Americans have grasped the reality that lowering the deficit involves either increasing revenue or cutting spending -- and understand that the wealthiest Americans are not yet paying their fair share. In a recent ''60 Minutes''/Vanity Fair poll, 61 percent of respondents said that the first step toward balancing the budget should be increasing taxes on the wealthy. Only 4 percent said cutting Medicare was the solution. Other polls show overwhelming opposition to cutting Medicaid.
What's courageous about a budget that sticks all the responsibility for closing the budget deficit on the middle class? Only in the minds of Republican politicians do working Americans want to give up their social safety net in order to pay for tax breaks for the wealthy.
Mr. Ryan's budget isn't courageous. It deliberately ignores the economic realities, and true priorities, of the vast majority of taxpayers.
MICHAEL B. KEEGAN President, People for the American Way Washington, April 6, 2011
To the Editor:
David Brooks gives Representative Paul D. Ryan too much undeserved praise. Anyone can write an ideological manifesto to be used as talking points in an election. The problem is that way too many already have.
However, to devise a proposal that seeks out compromise and bridges the partisan divide, something that could actually become law and maybe solve some of our problems -- that would be real genius and a true test of courage.
RICHARD R. JAPKO Jr. Morris Plains, N.J., April 5, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); TAX LAW (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); MEDICAID (72%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (52%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



155 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: For Cuomo, Pragmatism Guides Path In the Center

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Thomas Kaplan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ALBANY -- He has clashed with unions, who he believes have helped drive his state toward bankruptcy. He has been praised by prominent conservatives like Sarah Palin and Rudolph W. Giuliani. And he has taken thousands of dollars in campaign money from the New York billionaire David H. Koch, who with his family has helped financed the Tea Party movement.
His name: Andrew M. Cuomo, the governor of New York, a state where Democrats dominate and where his father, Mario M. Cuomo, is still invoked as a paragon of activist government and liberal principle.
In his first months in office, Governor Cuomo is taking a different tack. The man who began public life advocating for homeless people won passage of a state budget that makes steep cuts to schools, health care and social services. In a year when Wall Street posted record profits, Mr. Cuomo firmly rejected a politically popular income tax surcharge on the wealthy that was sought by many Democratic lawmakers. And Mr. Cuomo has promised to press for a cap on local property taxes, an idea with its modern roots in the conservative-led California tax revolt of the 1970s. 
Mr. Cuomo's approach to governing has burnished his prospects for higher office -- an ambition he neither confirms nor denies -- playing against the conventional stereotype of a New York Democrat and drawing praise from the political right (some of it, perhaps, not entirely sincere). Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Republican, has called Mr. Cuomo ''my soul mate.'' The Wall Street Journal's editorial page has praised Mr. Cuomo's ''ruptures with Democratic orthodoxy.''
But Mr. Cuomo's choices have also rankled some former allies and stirred suspicions among some fellow Democrats about his motivation.
''Governor Cuomo wants to be president, and he would do anything to be president,'' State Senator Ruben Diaz Sr., a Bronx Democrat, said in a speech on the Senate floor as lawmakers debated the budget, whose terms were largely dictated by Mr. Cuomo. ''He would take away the Medicare from the people, he would take the services from the poor, he would take the money from education.''
Mr. Cuomo would not be the first politician to flaunt his inner centrist as governor, a job in which voters tend to reward nuts-and-bolts governance over ideological crusades, and state laws requiring balanced budgets pull governors of both parties toward the middle on fiscal issues.
And in Albany, Mr. Cuomo must be measured against a political culture far more transactional than ideological, a realm in which powerful labor unions, including those that have accused him of deserting progressive principles, are as comfortable allying with conservative Republicans as with liberal Democrats when it comes to protecting jobs and benefits for their members.
Asked to describe his own beliefs during a news conference in Albany on Saturday, Mr. Cuomo was succinct. ''I am a progressive Democrat who's broke,'' he said, adding: ''I disagree with the concept that the only way to get better services is more money, more money, more money. ''We've been spending a lot more money. We're not getting better services.''
Fortuitous political circumstances have given Mr. Cuomo unusually wide latitude to shape his own terrain. Without a Democratic primary opponent last fall, he was able to keep his party's core constituencies at bay, arguing that the faltering economy required fiscal restraint in Albany and promising voters he would not raise taxes.
It was a notable contrast with his unsuccessful run for governor in 2002, when Mr. Cuomo emphasized issues like raising the minimum wage, ending mandatory jail time for drug offenders and providing universal prekindergarten.
In office, Mr. Cuomo has benefited from a consensus -- among voters and insiders alike -- that Albany has become ungovernable, its finances out of control and its reputation desperately needing rehabilitation. A Siena Research Institute poll conducted in March showed Mr. Cuomo with about the same job approval ratings among Democrats as among Republicans or unaffiliated voters. Most Democratic lawmakers voted for his budget last week even as some voiced concerns about its cuts.
''I don't think you can make any real ideological judgments about Andrew, because there was a political tsunami that he rode with great skill,'' said Richard L. Brodsky, a former Democratic assemblyman who is now a senior fellow at the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University. ''The result was foreordained. The net result of the campaign was that we should reduce our investment in public institutions and infrastructure.''
As governor, Mr. Cuomo has tried to protect his left flank, largely sparing environmental programs from his budget ax and pledging to make same-sex marriage legal in New York. Still, some critics view the contrast with his father as particularly stark on fiscal issues.
The elder Mr. Cuomo spoke often of the state budget as a moral document reflecting the values of the state, saying at his first inauguration as governor that a ''technically balanced budget that fails to meet the reasonable needs of the middle class and poor would be the emblem of hypocrisy.''
Taking office amid a recession in the early 1980s, the elder Mr. Cuomo's first budget laid off 11,000 state workers but increased school aid and raised $1 billion in revenue through new or expanded taxes on oil companies, the real estate industry and other businesses.
The younger Mr. Cuomo, determined to keep his campaign promises, ignored demands from his party to consider such measures. And in some respects, he has governed less like his father than like the Republican who beat him, George E. Pataki. Mr. Cuomo, like Mr. Pataki in his first term as governor, joined forces with Senate Republicans to cut programs and services that were historically linked to his party's base, though he restored some spending in negotiations with Assembly Democrats.
''Candidly, progressives are quite disappointed with the governor's budget,'' said Jon Kest, a veteran organizer and executive director of New York Communities for Change, an advocacy group for low-income New Yorkers. ''We will stand with him when his actions align with our values, but that is not the case today.''
Those close to Mr. Cuomo say that he is above all a pragmatist, bent on reshaping Albany's paralyzed government so that it can once again be an effective and credible force in New Yorkers' lives. His approach as governor, they say, is consistent with his work both at Help USA, the nonprofit housing organization he founded in the 1980s, and as housing secretary in the 1990s, where he slashed budgets, trimmed the work force and developed policies to reward innovation.
If some remain wary of Mr. Cuomo's true goals, it may be because he so rarely discusses his beliefs in public. His predecessor, Eliot Spitzer, delivered speeches about the future of the Democratic Party, and once wrote an article that appeared on the cover of The New Republic on the role of government in fostering economic dynamism. Mr. Cuomo has shied away from self-conscious declarations of his political vision.
Mr. Cuomo declined to be interviewed for this article. In a rare on-the-record interview last October, as he was running for governor, he showed little interest in ideological labels.
''I'm a realist,'' Mr. Cuomo said at the time. ''Numbers are numbers. 'I want to have a political-philosophical discussion,' '' he mimicked. ''They're numbers. Forget the philosophy. Here are the numbers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo
 and the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); MEDICARE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); HOMELESSNESS (54%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%); SARAH PALIN (72%); RUDY GIULIANI (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



156 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: High-Level Departures Continue at City Schools

BYLINE: By SHARON OTTERMAN and JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
John White, a deputy chancellor of the New York City Department of Education, will resign to oversee struggling schools in Louisiana, the city announced on Wednesday. It was the latest in a series of high-level departures from the department since the appointment of Schools Chancellor Cathleen P. Black late last year.
If approved by a Louisiana state board on Friday, Mr. White, 35, would replace Paul G. Vallas, 57, the current superintendent of the state-run Recovery School District, which manages 82 low-performing schools, primarily in New Orleans. Mr. Vallas, the former head of public schools in Chicago and Philadelphia, will be continuing his work with the Inter-American Development Bank to improve school systems in Chile and elsewhere abroad, state officials in Louisiana said. 
Mr. White called the efforts to improve education in New Orleans ''one of the most remarkable efforts at public education in the country.'' He said his decision had nothing to do with the change in leadership at the city's Education Department.
''Tremendous progress has been made in New Orleans, and a long trend of challenges has been replaced with a long string of successes,'' Mr. White said in a telephone interview on Wednesday. ''I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to continue those successes.''
In New York, Mr. White was the deputy chancellor for talent, labor and innovation. He was the point person on several high-profile efforts to transform how the city hires and fires teachers and manages its classrooms, financed in part through a $700 million federal grant known as Race to the Top.
The city is still in the early stages of switching to a system in which teachers are rated according to a method that takes into account student performance, and Mr. White was negotiating with the teachers' union in that effort. He was also overseeing the iZone, a network of 80 schools experimenting with online learning and different ways to manage classrooms. That network is scheduled to grow to 400 schools in two years, but the expansion of some of its signature initiatives has been delayed.
Joel I. Klein, the former city schools chancellor, who hired Mr. White in 2006 to manage the creation of new schools and the closing of poor ones, called him ''unflappable.'' He said he thought the talent at the department was deep enough that Ms. Black would have no trouble filling recent vacancies. But he acknowledged that the department was going through a ''tough time'' economically.
''My advice is just hang in there and pay attention and focus on the things that are critical,'' Mr. Klein said. ''Deal with the tough issues that the department's facing.''
In addition, Ms. Black's approval rating in two recent polls was 17 percent.
When Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg selected Ms. Black, the former president of Hearst Magazines after a secretive search that ended in November, he argued that a powerful brain trust of top officials made her lack of education experience unimportant. That argument was also adopted by the state education commissioner, David M. Steiner, as a rationale to waive the legal requirement of an education background for the position.
But about half of the city's top education officials have left since then, including many of the long-serving officials who created the architecture of the system that Ms. Black must run. Among them were Eric Nadelstern, a deputy chancellor who oversaw the creation of a decentralized management system that gives wide latitude to the city's nearly 1,700 schools; Elizabeth Sciabarra, who managed the intricate system of admissions and school choice; and Photeine Anagnostopoulos, the finance director. Also, Santiago Taveras, a deputy chancellor who rose through the ranks of the city school system and was in charge of community engagement, resigned on Monday.
The city said it had begun a search to replace Mr. White and Mr. Taveras; the other positions have been filled by deputies or have been folded into other jobs.
''We have seen two deputy chancellors leave in one week,'' said Michael Mulgrew, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, the city's teachers' union. ''My concern is how are we going to make sure that schools are getting the support the department is responsible for giving them.''
Mr. White is emblematic of the young generation of educational leaders in a national movement championed by President Obama that emphasizes school choice, teacher quality and data-driven accountability. Before joining the New York school system, he taught English with Teach for America, and later became the executive director of Teach for America Chicago. In 2010 he completed the Broad Superintendents Academy, considered an incubator for education leaders.
In New Orleans, he would manage 23 schools directly, 22 of which are failing, as well as oversee 64 charter schools. Test scores are rising, but there is a long way to go.
''We need someone who is extremely focused on academics,'' said Nash Molpus Crews, the associate director of the Cowen Institute, an education research group at Tulane University. ''We are at a place where we really need to dig in our heels and continue the work that Superintendent Vallas started.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); APPROVALS (76%); TRENDS (72%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); TEACHER UNIONS (69%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); INTERVIEWS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (54%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%)

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (84%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (70%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (70%)

PERSON: CATHLEEN BLACK (76%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



157 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dealbook; A SPECIAL SECTION: DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2020 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street's New Cash Crop: Changing Rules for Entrepreneurs: Take the Money, Keep Control

BYLINE: By EVELYN M. RUSLI

 BODY:
IN a small office in San Francisco, electronic music blared as several programmers loomed over two computers. David Morin, the founder of Path, a social network start-up, gave the signal and the company's site and iPhone application went live.
Within three hours of its Nov. 15 introduction, the site had tens of thousands of visitors.
Since then, Path has walked away from takeover talks with Google for as much as $100 million, according to a person close to the company, and raised $11 million from 27 investors. More revealingly, Path has turned down more than that from at least that many investors.
''I was humbled by the level of interest -- we're trying to build something that is deeply meaningful,'' Mr. Morin said. ''As long as I'm doing my best to lead, I want to keep going.'' 
For every Facebook, Groupon or Zynga, known for its Farmville game, there are scores of lesser-known start-ups like Mr. Morin's that are raising millions in financing at steep valuations, turning computer programmers into paper millionaires overnight.
Part of the reason is supply and demand, as a wave of capital chases a limited supply of deals. But a more tectonic shift is at work in Silicon Valley. Investors are putting a significant premium on young, visionary entrepreneurs who grew up with the Internet and now seem best positioned to direct the future of the social and mobile Web. Generally in their mid-20s or early 30s, today's start-up founders are becoming more assertive in funding rounds, securing better terms and, in many cases, cashing out part of their investments well before an initial public offering.
''The resources available to founders, to create and control their company's destiny, have evolved in their favor,'' said Sean Parker, a former president of Facebook and a founder of Napster. ''The job of being a founder and executing against a big vision of the future has gotten easier.''
Last year Quora, a question-and-answer site, raised $11 million at an $86 million valuation months before its debut. In February, Uber, an on-demand car service that uses mobile phone apps, raised $11 million at a $60 million valuation. And Color, a photo-sharing application, raised an astounding $41 million in March, before it opened for business. The round was led by Sequoia Capital, a venture capital firm that once invested a more modest $12.5 million in Google, back in 1999.
''For the next-generation opportunities around the Internet and social networks, I believe the biggest opportunities will be driven by young founders who maintain their C.E.O. positions,'' said Jim Breyer, an early investor in Facebook and a partner at Accel Partners.
In the postrecession environment, young entrepreneurs are finding relatively easy access to capital, as venture capitalists open their wallets wider and a new crop of angel investors move in. Venture capital investments rose 19 percent, to $21.8 billion in 2010 -- the first annual increase since the downturn, according to the National Venture Capital Association. The number of angel investors, meanwhile, surged 22 percent to 727 last year, according to data from research firm CB Insights.
The founder of Uber, Travis Kalanick, says the boom in angel investing and the popularity of networking services, like Angel List, a site that matches entrepreneurs with investors, have made financing significantly more accessible.
''In 2001, you took the money you could scrape -- I would talk to 150 V.C.'s and maybe one of them was interested,'' Mr. Kalanick said. Today, Uber has more than a dozen investors and a long line of suitors.
At the same time, the cost to start a Web business has dropped precipitously, thanks in large part to the availability of low-cost cloud computing services. The mobile games company TinyCo, which recently raised $18 million, ran on a shoestring budget for two years before its first financing round. Its founders, Suleman Ali and Ian Spivey, said they scrimped their way to profitability, using free software services like Google applications, renting office space from other start-ups and paying freelancers for art. Mr. Morin, who fondly recalls stacking servers during Facebook's early days, says he operates Path through the cloud, with Amazon Web Services.
And so, with just a pinch of capital, a start-up can go live, rapidly build up a user base from the Web's vast population and validate its thesis in a short period of time.
''There's never been a company ever that has grown as fast as Groupon or Facebook, because no one could reach such a big audience so quickly,'' said Ben Horowitz, a co-founder of venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. ''The ability to build a company that gets to $1 billion in revenues in less than two years is unprecedented.''
The swell in resources coincides with a shift in attitude, as more Internet founders stay in the chief executive role with the support of their venture capital backers. That was not always the norm. The early generation of Web companies is littered with examples of founders who backed down from the day-to-day responsibilities as their companies took off. Less than two years after Yahoo's beginning, its founders Jerry Yang and David Filo hired Tim Koogle as chief executive. One year after eBay was founded, Pierre Omidyar hired Jeff Skoll to lead his company in 1996.
''In the past, a lot of the top venture capitalists thought founders were replaceable, or that they were best replaced,'' said Marc Andreessen, the founder of Netscape and venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. ''It's been a huge education.''
Mr. Breyer of Accel Partners recalled that when he first invested in Facebook, in 2005, several investors asked him who he thought should replace Mark Zuckerberg as chief executive. Today, those questions have largely receded, he said, as investors put a greater premium on the founder's vision.
''In 2004, 2005, we saw that social applications and social networks were becoming absolutely central to the Web,'' Mr. Breyer said. ''The only founders who really understood the implications of how that would change, were founders who didn't grow up with the very first generation of Internet companies.''
As these factors coalesced, a founder's bargaining position at the negotiating table has also improved. Several years after the dot-com bust, a wave of progressive financing terms started to gain traction in Silicon Valley, led in part by founders who were burned by past investors. Through the spread of these ideas via the Web and word-of-mouth, more founders are securing advantageous financing terms, including higher valuations and stronger board control.
Mr. Parker, who in 2004 was pushed out of Plaxo, a start-up he co-founded, says venture capitalists robbed him of his full equity stake. As the first president of Facebook, Mr. Parker tried to protect Mr. Zuckerberg's interests by laying a foundation that would make it very difficult for future investors to strip Mr. Zuckerberg of his equity or his control. In the company's first major round of financing, a $12.7 million effort led by Mr. Breyer and Accel Partners in 2005, Mr. Parker pushed for a high valuation (near $100 million) and created a board structure that would guarantee two board seats to Mr. Zuckerberg. When Mr. Parker resigned from Facebook later that year, he gave Mr. Zuckerberg control of his board seat as well.
Later, as a venture capitalist, Mr. Parker helped pioneer a new class of stock, called Founders Fund or FF shares, which made it easy for founders to sell their shares during funding rounds without jeopardizing the value of common shares.
''Up until Founders Fund came along, the general venture capital rule was that founders could not take money out until everyone else did; this changed the V.C. model quite a bit,'' said Don Dodge, a Google employee and an angel investor who invested in Mr. Morin's company.
Others in Silicon Valley also introduced and popularized pro-founder documents, including Ted Wang, a lawyer with Fenwick & West, who created standard deal documents for early (or seed) investments; and Adeo Ressi, who runs the Founder Institute, a start-up incubator. Mr. Ressi teamed up with Yoichiro Taku, a lawyer at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, to introduce ''F'' class shares, a class of stock that guarantees founders twice the number of voting shares held by other board members. At least 200 companies have used ''F'' class shares, according to Mr. Taku.
In this environment, investors like Yuri Milner, the founder of D.S.T. Global, have thrived. Mr. Milner, a Russian billionaire who is widely considered a founder-centric investor, has spearheaded giant capital fund-raising efforts at billion-dollar valuations for late-stage start-ups, like Facebook and Groupon.
Since his first major investment in the United States -- a minor stake in Facebook in 2009 -- Mr. Milner has poured hundreds of millions of dollars into American start-ups, often asking for no control, or even a board seat, in return. In many of the D.S.T. deals, founders and early investors have had the option to convert some of their stakes in the company to cash. As his fortunes grow, Mr. Milner, who recently paid $100 million for a mansion in Los Altos Hills, Calif., has put pressure on other venture capitalists to follow suit and offer similar terms.
''Yuri's visionary bets focused on exceptional founders,'' said Shervin Pishevar, an angel investor and co-founder of the Social Gaming Network. ''Now, like a rubber band, we're chasing him.''
As founders see their strength grow, analysts are wondering what implications this might have for Silicon Valley. On one hand, the new wave of start-ups could produce gains in innovation and the creation of game-changing companies akin to Google or Microsoft. Young entrepreneurs, flush with cash, say the surge in capital also gives them the freedom to build significant companies without distraction.
''By taking money off the table, you're expunging a big source of risk, allowing you to focus on the interests of the company you're building instead of your own,'' said Andrew Mason, the 30-year-old founder and chief executive of Groupon. He said he was able to sell some of his shares in D.S.T. Global's initial Groupon investment, a $135 million round last April.
But there are also concerns that the widespread enthusiasm has led to an inflation of company valuations and unrealistic expectations. At some point, many of these start-ups will probably falter and money will eventually become tighter. Mr. Dodge says the average valuation for young start-ups held at $1 million to $2 million for several years, but in the last two years, that range has more than tripled, to $5 million to $6 million.
''Investors are dropping checks in early-stage companies and giving it away like Halloween candy,'' said Mr. Taku, the Wilson Sonsini lawyer.
Matt Cohler, a general partner with Benchmark Capital and an early employee of Facebook and LinkedIn, is troubled for another reason. He's worried that the popularity of entrepreneurship will siphon talent away from the larger start-ups, businesses that could be the next Facebooks. As a generation races to the gold rush, rising start-ups will inevitably struggle to find an army of whiz-kid engineers.
''My fear is, what if all these talented people are too thinly spread among too many small-scale opportunities and it becomes too difficult to aggregate really talented people to solve important problems?'' he said.
It's already a concern for Mr. Kalanick, the founder of Uber, who is looking for engineers at reasonable wages. As more talented prospects start their own companies or take lofty offers from the likes of Google or Apple, engineer salaries are soaring. He estimates that the salary for an engineer has jumped 25 percent in the last year.
Despite these worries, many in the Valley say they believe a new class of giants will emerge from the swarm of start-ups.
''In the next decade Groupon will not look like an anomaly; there may not be 50 $50 billion companies, but there's probably going to be 50 $1 billion companies,'' Mr. Pishevar, the angel investor, said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: INTEREST David Morin at the San Francisco offices of Path, a social networking start-up that had its debut in November. Since then, it has raised $11 million and passed on an offer from Google. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F8) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY QUICKHONEY) (F1)
 GRAPHIC: 1. ANDREW MASON OF GROUPON 2. LLOYD BLANKFEIN OF GOLDMAN SACHS 3. YURI MILNER OF D.S.T. GLOBAL 4. SEAN PARKER OF FOUNDERS FUND 5. MARK ZUCKERBERG OF FACEBOOK 6. JOHN DOERR OF KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS 7. MARY MEEKER OF KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (89%); FINANCING ROUNDS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); SMARTPHONES (77%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); MUSIC (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); GROUPON INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); SEQUOIA CAPITAL (51%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%); L JOHN DOERR (50%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



158 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Success From These M.&A. Deals Appears on a Report Card

BYLINE: By KEVIN ROOSE

 BODY:
Five miles north of Wall Street, a small financial advisory firm, Synergy M&A, has been working on dozens of headline-grabbing deals, including AT&T's recent $39 billion bid for T-Mobile USA.
But the 27 deal makers hashing out terms and dissecting numbers are not freshly minted business school graduates or investment banking veterans. They are high schools seniors in a third-floor classroom on Manhattan's Upper West Side.
Synergy M&A is the trade name of the business and entrepreneurship class at Martin Luther King Jr. High School of the Arts and Technology. For the last year, Christina Feng, 25, has been teaching the intricacies of Wall Street deals to her 12th-grade class. Recently, her students have been applying their book learning to real-life situations by analyzing some of the world's largest mergers and acquisitions.
''A lot of high schoolers complain about having all these classes, and it's like, how can I relate to this?'' said Mariangely Gonzales, a senior from West Harlem. ''But this class directly affects me.'' 
''To understand the business world is to understand your life,'' added Hector Cabrera, who lives in Manhattan's Lower East Side.
Ms. Feng's M.&A. workshop is not the only high school class with a Wall Street curriculum. The High School of Economics and Finance, a public school in Lower Manhattan, offers courses in banking, accounting and financial mathematics. The Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania recently introduced a Web-based project called Knowledge@Wharton High School to promote financial literacy among students and teachers.
But few other classes have taken to deal making with the gusto of Synergy M&A. In recent weeks, Ms. Feng - who spent two years in the Teach for America program - has quizzed her students on the basics of stock ownership, esoteric financial terms like ''par value'' and potential interest rates for borrowers.
''I want to open up my own bake shop one day, so knowing this information is good for me,'' said Jessica Anderson, a senior from East Harlem.
Many of the students are Hispanic and African-American and from low-income families, and Ms. Feng said few had been exposed to corporate finance and investment banking before this year. Now, they are learning to track stock movements and analyze corporate earnings reports - some of the same tasks done by entry-level analysts at Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley.
''Finance has a lot of upper middle-class, affluent white people in it,'' said Ms. Feng. ''It's a field that traditionally not a lot of my students would feel they could break into.''
Synergy M&A got its start last fall, when Ms. Feng, a government major at Colby College, entered her class in Virtual Enterprises, a business simulation program for high schools. At first, the organization was doubtful that the students could grasp such a complex topic.
''That kind of business is tricky, especially when kids don't have the background for it,'' said John Jastremski, the associate director of Virtual Enterprises who rejected the initial Synergy M&A plan.
Ms. Feng decided to enter the program anyway, telling Virtual Enterprises that the M&A in their name stood for ''motivation and assistance,'' and that their mock business would be a line of classroom products stamped with inspirational sayings. Virtual Enterprises eventually allowed Synergy M&A to remain in the program.
The class now splits its time between its retail business and its deal advisory projects. On a recent afternoon, one group of students was studying the long-term viability of deep discount sites like Groupon and LivingSocial. Another was doing a case study of Mercedes-Benz's failed acquisition of Chrysler in 1998. Danny Rivera, a senior from West Harlem, was scrolling through news reports to better understand AT&T's offer for T-Mobile.
''I'm up in the air,'' Mr. Rivera said of the proposed deal. ''A merger would be better for the service, but T-Mobile customers won't benefit because they'll lose their cost-efficient plans.''
Last week, the class took a field trip to Google's New York City headquarters. Ms. Feng arranged the trip so that Synergy M&A could see the real-life corporation behind its most recent assignment: Google's hypothetical purchase of The New York Times Company.
For the takeover simulation, the class split into six groups, three representing The Times Company and three representing Google. Teams used cash-flow models to value the two companies, set opening bids and lowest acceptable offers - executing the takeover at prices that ranged from $11.82 to $20 a share. (Actual shares of The New York Times Company closed at $9.44 on Thursday.)
''We had to reassure The Times that Google wasn't going to change them,'' said Ms. Anderson, a member of a Google negotiating team whose bid of $20 a share was accepted. ''It was actually really fun.''
Synergy M&A's enthusiasm has already attracted admirers in the business world. Robert F. Bruner, the dean of the University of Virginia's Darden School of Business and author of ''Deals From Hell,'' recently gave a guest lecture. Jeff Fernandez, the chief executive of Internet training company Grovo, has also spoken to the class.
Last year, Ms. Feng contacted Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, and arranged for a classroom visit. But when a scheduling conflict forced Mr. Blankfein to cancel, Ms. Feng extended an invitation to a fellow Colby graduate, Robert E. Diamond, the chief executive of Barclays.
''When I got her e-mail, I almost jumped over it,'' Mr. Diamond said. ''But it struck me, with the school being right here in the city, and the types of kids she was teaching. I e-mailed her back and said, 'What time should I be there?'''
Mr. Diamond spent an hour speaking to Ms. Feng's class about the major events of the financial crisis, including his bank's 2008 purchase of Lehman Brothers' core assets, the nationalization of the insurer American International Group, and the transformation of Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley into bank holding companies. He later invited the entire class to the Barclays headquarters for a tour of the trading floor.
''Frankly, I was stunned,'' Mr. Diamond said. ''What really impressed me was how knowledgeable kids with no background had become in this subject area. To me, that's what teaching is all about.''
Many of the employees of Synergy M&A are headed for state and community colleges next year, and few said they planned to study business or finance. But after his visit, Mr. Diamond offered to reserve several Barclays internships, which typically take place after a student's junior year of college, for graduates of the class.
To Ms. Feng, it was an indication that some of her students could still end up on Wall Street.
''We're proving a lot of people wrong,'' she said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christina Feng, standing, is teaching a high school class in Manhattan about the intricacies of Wall Street deals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); MERGERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); CURRICULA (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); FAMILY (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



159 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: In War Between States for Jobs, Businesses Stand to Gain Most

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- This city, sharing a name with one state but settled in another, has a long history of ugly border skirmishes dating back to the Civil War. And even today, the annual football showdown here between the University of Kansas and the University of Missouri is referred to as ''The Border War.''
But the interstate rivalry has grown fierce on a new battlefield -- business -- as the two states stage cross-border raids and entice companies with generous incentives to move a few miles and resettle on the other side.
Though some say such moves strengthen communities with new jobs and tax revenue, a growing chorus of leaders on both sides are wondering about the point of it all, warning that the efforts serve only to help private companies at taxpayer expense. Even some beneficiaries confess surprise at neighbors' competing with such rancor. 
''In all candor, it's unusual and a little disconcerting,'' said Gerry Lopez, chief executive of AMC Entertainment, the movie theater chain, which is being offered incentives to move to Kansas from Missouri. ''I do wonder whether this is an appropriate role for government to be playing.''
Other Midwest states are engaged in similar battles, and have set aside neighborliness for easy growth as they search for answers to rising unemployment in their still-struggling economies.
Though they may say their development efforts are designed to help them compete with the two coasts for companies, they often end up fighting over companies already in the region.
South Dakota, for example, has long run radio and print advertisements in Minnesota boasting of its far lower tax burden, recruiting businesses with names like Twin City Fan. Gov. Dennis Daugaard of South Dakota argued that it was usually more effective to recruit businesses from neighboring states because they already knew the region.
''Rather than swim upstream with someone who has negative connotations because of a lack of knowledge, it's easier,'' he said.
This approach is often criticized by economists like Timothy J. Bartik, who studies state and local economic development policies for the W. E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research.
''It's a little bit of a zero sum game,'' Mr. Bartik said. ''Because one part gains and the other part loses. And the gains are much more modest than the losses.''
Leaders in some Midwestern border cities like Omaha, Sioux City and Fargo insist that they have found ways to work together. But the battle over jobs continues with particular intensity in Kansas City, where decades of rapid growth have transformed the Kansas suburbs into successful economic rivals of the Missouri downtown.
AMC, which is being wooed by both sides, has grown into one of this city's largest companies since it started with a single theater downtown in 1920, just blocks from its current headquarters. But a troublesome air-conditioning system prompted the company to search for a newer base.
Kansas has offered a package of incentives that includes a 10-year tax rebate of more than $40 million. Missouri, unable to match it, hopes AMC's deep roots will keep the company where it is out of loyalty. Both Kansas' governor, Sam Brownback, and Missouri's, Jay Nixon, have lobbied personally in recent weeks.
Mr. Lopez has not decided on his next move, but he noted that lavish incentives from Kansas could not be easily brushed aside. He was skeptical, too, about any broader benefit to an area where the lives of most of his employees already extend comfortably to both sides of the border.
''Will there be any net improvement to the region?'' he asked. ''Probably not.''
Mark Funkhouser, Kansas City's mayor, is a vocal critic of what he calls ''this recent jobs poaching expedition,'' complaining that the efforts drain time and money that could be spent on services like education and infrastructure that should be used to attract residents and businesses from outside the region.
''What politicians are doing is creating the illusion that they are creating jobs by short-term fixes that actually weaken the region's ability to compete,'' he said.
But Brent Miles, president of the economic development council in bordering Wyandotte County, which includes the much smaller Kansas City, Kan., said he did not recruit from across state lines unless companies or their representatives initiated the contact. Indeed, Nick Jordan, the Kansas secretary of revenue, said there was a ''nonpoaching agreement'' signed by the two states' governors (though the document could not be located).
Those claims are widely dismissed by people who say that a single exploratory call by a company can set off a full-court-press recruiting drive.
Though the flow of companies has gone both ways over the years, there is no dispute that Kansas has been far more successful of late.
Of the 53 companies that have received state tax incentives to move into Kansas since the 2009 fiscal year, 45 have been from Missouri, according to a spokesman for the Kansas Department of Commerce. During that period, just one company moved from Kansas to Missouri, according to Missouri figures.
In Wyandotte County, Mr. Miles said, 133 of the 156 ''new jobs'' from out of state last year were from Missouri, using a phrase that has rankled those who say the same employees usually just alter their commutes.
''Our definition is new to us,'' Mr. Miles explained. ''It is a new job, obviously, to the State of Kansas. When you're tax driven, that's important. Now the State of Kansas gets the tax instead of the State of Missouri.''
Art Hall, director of the Center for Applied Economics at the University of Kansas School of Business, said the debate over such programs was difficult to referee because much of the information about the incentives was not public. He was doubtful that such programs made economic sense. ''What you've really done is set up a situation to be abused by businesses,'' Mr. Hall said.
That has been the experience of David Frantze, a prominent real estate lawyer in Kansas City, who said that when he had a client looking for office space in the metro area, he immediately sent requests to both states asking about potential packages.
''It's horrible public policy,'' he said. ''But as long as it's the law of the land, as a lawyer you have the responsibility to get the best deal for your client.''
A growing number of prominent community members on both sides favor a border zone, in which states would be allowed to offer incentives only for new jobs, rather than those that are simply being relocated within it.
Such plans have been often floated without success. But an informal group of civic leaders, including Don Hall Jr., the chief executive of Hallmark, based in Kansas City, has been pushing more aggressively for a detente.
''Our success as a regional city is not based on one side or the other, but so many of our mechanisms for competing are really aimed at each other,'' Mr. Hall said.
John Vratil, a state senator who represents the Kansas side of the metro area, agreed that the efforts were a distraction but had a more fatalist attitude. ''It's just an inherent aspect of the free market,'' he said.
That is why Jeff Kaczmarek, head of the Economic Development Corporation of Kansas City, is urging the Missouri Legislature to expand tax incentives to make it easier to compete.
''From a philosophical perspective it makes no sense, but the question is: Is the State of Kansas going to unilaterally disarm, and until that happens why would Missouri unilaterally disarm?'' he asked.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AMC originated with a theater in downtown Kansas City, Mo., but its chief executive, Gerry Lopez, below, is weighing a move to Kansas because of tax incentives. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) GRAPHIC: Cross-Border Competition: Demographic differences in the metro area: (Source: Mid-America Regional Council) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); MOVIE THEATERS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (58%)

PERSON: GERARDO I LOPEZ (66%); DENNIS DAUGAARD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (94%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); FARGO, ND, USA (54%) MISSOURI, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



160 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Judge Approves Sale of St. Vincent's Campus to Developers

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
A plan to build a luxury housing development and an emergency medical center in Greenwich Village came a step closer to reality on Thursday as a federal bankruptcy judge approved the sale of the bankrupt St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan campus. 
The judge, Cecelia G. Morris, approved the $260 million sale to the Rudin development family and the North Shore-Long Island Jewish hospital system despite vociferous opposition from a small group of community activists who have been arguing for the creation of a new full-service hospital on the site where St. Vincent's had operated for more than 160 years.
One opponent, Alan J. Gerson, a former city councilman who lives in the area, asked for more time to present a rival buyer, but the judge declined.
The sale was unanimously supported by St. Vincent's creditors, including GE Capital, who are owed about $1 billion, according to Kenneth Eckstein, the lead lawyer for St. Vincent's.
The hospital, which was the last general Catholic hospital in New York City, declared bankruptcy a year ago.
Mr. Eckstein told the judge that the hospital had spent three months looking for a buyer before declaring bankruptcy and that it was unrealistic to expect a better offer to materialize in the current economic environment.
Mr. Eckstein said later, outside of court, that North Shore-L.I.J. was willing to work with the community to try to make the new health center as close to what the residents wanted as it could be. ''Today is the beginning of that process, not the end,'' he said.
The sale would allow the Rudin family to build 590,000 square feet of apartments and town houses on the east part of the campus. North Shore-L.I.J. plans to spend $110 million to turn the O'Toole building across the street into a 24-hour emergency care and walk-in surgery facility. North Shore-L.I.J. officials said, if approved by the State Health Department, the facility would be the first of its kind in the city.
Fall 2013 is the projected opening date for the health center. Michael Dowling, the chief executive of North Shore-L.I.J., and Bill Rudin, of the Rudin family, hailed the court's decision in a joint statement and said the housing and medical center plan was ''a great deal for the community.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); APPROVALS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); LAWYERS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (69%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (69%); GEC (LSE) (69%); GE (SWX) (69%); GE (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



161 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NADINE, N.M.; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: The Census, Layer by Layer: Recognition To the Specks On the Map

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
A wayfaring stranger, wandering into tiny Nadine, N.M., in years past, would not have officially been anywhere, at least in the eyes of the United States census. With only a few hundred souls, it was counted, if at all, as an extension of Hobbs, the nearest real city of about 34,000 people just to the north. 
Now, Nadine has become, for the first time, a ''Census Designated Place,'' along with two other nearby rural areas, North Hobbs and Monument, under rules that the census introduced in 2000 allowing recognition to places that might have as few as handful of people. The rules opened the door to a kind of pointillist geography of place, where the tiniest of places can, if not quite roar, then at least clear their throats and speak.
Around the nation, nearly 10,000 other wide spots in the road joined the list too, from Ballplay, Ala., to Pulcifer, Wis.
California had more new places than any other state: 1,043. But even Rhode Island managed to find 26 hamlets in 2010 meriting an official name.
But what happened in Nadine and its much larger neighbor, Hobbs, also says a lot about ethnic and economic identity in post-recession America -- and how people on the ground can use the census for their own ends and interests, rather than the government's.
The region made a concentrated effort to get everyone counted, hoping to make the case that the area was ripe for business investment. Given the ferocious competition among small communities for chain stores, restaurants and manufacturers, ''everyone got involved in pushing,'' said Bob Reid, a board member at the Lea County Community Improvement Corporation.
Encouraging residents to fill out their census forms included a door-to-door campaign and a parade to the post office in Hobbs organized by the Hobbs Hispano Chamber of Commerce, followed by a cookout.
The drumbeat for participation worked: Hobbs's population, in the new count, grew nearly 17 percent, as did the county's as a whole. And fingers are crossed: A new farm equipment supply store opened in Hobbs last month. With a better census count, an additional pattern has emerged, as well: Hispanics in the county surged from just under 40 percent of the total in the 2000 census to 51.1 percent.
Nadine and its sister microtowns are, as it turns out, majority non-Hispanic, the 2010 census said. But Mr. Reid at the Community Improvement Corporation said none of that matters. A larger, more diverse Hobbs area means a larger potential pie for all.
The president of the Hobbs Hispano Chamber of Commerce, Oscar Gonzalez, agreed. ''We partnered with all the communities,'' he said, referring to the census participation drive that boosted Hobbs and its new satellite towns. ''And they're close enough in vicinity that we all benefit.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (86%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); RESTAURANTS (64%); RETAILERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



162 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: How Secrecy Undermines Audit Reform

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
For the auditing industry, the financial crisis was really not that bad.
While nearly every other group involved in the financial system -- banks, mortgage brokers, bond rating agencies, derivatives dealers and regulators -- faced severe criticism and new legislation, auditors largely escaped unscathed.
There were, to be sure, a few discordant notes. The Lehman Brothers bankruptcy trustee blasted Ernst & Young for allowing Lehman to use a dubious accounting method to hide its leverage in the months leading to its demise, and the attorney general of New York filed fraud charges against Ernst. Robert Herz, then the chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, complained that auditors had allowed banks to violate the rules on off-balance sheet entities in order to hide assets and liabilities.
But the Dodd-Frank law did nothing to the auditors.
That was in sharp contrast to the previous round of scandals -- the Enron and WorldCom accounting frauds that led to the enactment in 2002 of the Sarbanes-Oxley law. That law established the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board to audit the auditors. With a second set of eyes looking over their shoulders, it was hoped, auditors would do a better job. 
While auditors may be doing a better job, that does not necessarily mean they are doing a good one.
This week James R. Doty, the new chairman of the P.C.A.O.B., let loose a blast at the job the profession had done -- and was doing.
In a speech to the Council of Institutional Investors, Mr. Doty said the board had gone back and inspected the audits of many companies that later failed or were bailed out. ''In several cases -- including audits involving substantial financial institutions -- P.C.A.O.B. inspection teams found audit failures that were of such significance that our inspectors concluded the firm had failed to support its opinion,'' he said.
That is, it should be noted, not the same as saying the financial statements were wrong. It is possible that the audit firm did not do enough work to know if the statements were accurate but that they would have been acceptable even to a proper audit.
Moreover, as Mr. Doty noted, ''Auditors were not charged with enforcing good risk management practices at financial institutions.'' But they were supposed to make sure the statements reflected the conditions at the time. That appears not to have happened at Lehman Brothers, at least when it came to leverage, and it might not have happened at other banks.
What's worse, the problems seem to be continuing.
In the wake of the financial crisis, no accounting issue has been more critical than the valuation of financial assets. In some cases, banks are now required to report the fair value -- normally the market value -- of securities they own. That is not easy for securities that rarely trade, and it was made all the harder by the complexity of some securities that Wall Street invented during the boom years. Banks claim, with some justification, that markets became unduly fearful at the height of the crisis, and that market values fell too low.
Investors and regulators could, if they chose, make allowances for depressed markets. But they need to be able to compare banks with one another, and to do that they need to have confidence that financial statements are comparable.
But the accounting oversight board does not think that has happened. In the board's report of its 2009 inspection of PricewaterhouseCoopers, which concerns 2008 audits conducted at the height of the financial crisis, the board wrote that ''in four audits, due to deficiencies in its testing of fair values of investment securities and/or derivatives, the firm failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to support its audit opinion.''
It had similar complaints about each of the other members of the Big Four -- KPMG, Ernst & Young and Deloitte & Touche.
Unfortunately for investors, the board has not revealed the names of any clients involved.
Nor do the auditors appear to have gotten everything right in later audits, at least in Mr. Doty's view.
''Although the 2010 reporting cycle is not yet complete, so far P.C.A.O.B. inspectors have continued to identify significant issues related to the valuation of complex financial instruments, among other areas,'' he said, adding that the ''inspectors have also identified more issues than in prior years.''
In 2002, when the auditing firms had been humiliated by audit failures, their efforts to prevent any regulation failed, but they did win one crucial victory in the details of the Sarbanes-Oxley law. The oversight board must keep secret its most critical assessments of audits unless a firm fails to respond to the criticism. And the board's disciplinary actions remain secret until they are resolved by the board and the Securities and Exchange Commission has ruled on any appeal.
It is as if the fact a man was suspected of robbing a bank had to be kept secret until after he was not only convicted but failed in his appeal.
That secrecy was justified as necessary to protect reputations that could be tarnished by charges that might later be disproved. In practice, board officials complain, it has led to stalling tactics by firms that figure they can avoid negative publicity indefinitely. The board has asked Congress to change the law, but that seems unlikely.
In his speech this week, Mr. Doty said that several precrisis audits were ''the subject of pending P.C.A.O.B. investigations and may lead to disciplinary actions against firms or individuals,'' but he of course gave no details. As a result, all firms are tarred, not just those the board thinks acted irresponsibly.
To be fair, the accounting rules give the firms a difficult job in evaluating a bank's estimate of fair value of securities that rarely trade. Banks have some flexibility in determining how to make those estimates, and the auditor is supposed to satisfy itself that the methods used are reasonable. The board makes it clear in the publicly released sections of inspection reports that banks use varying methods.
As a result, even if every audit were done properly, there would be no assurance that the results would be comparable.
One reason the board exists is that investors were shocked by disclosures in the Enron scandal that local auditors for Arthur Andersen -- the fifth member, now defunct, of what was then the Big Five -- had felt free to ignore advice on accounting standards from the firm's technical experts, who worked in what is known in the industry as the national office.
Other firms assured me at the time that nothing comparable could happen in their operations.
But perhaps it can.
In his speech, Mr. Doty quoted from two assurances given by auditors to clients, and discovered by board inspectors. He did not name either firm involved.
One firm promised that the auditors on the scene would ''support the desired outcome where the audit team may be confronted with an issue that merits consultation with our national office.''
At least that firm seemed to leave open the possibility that the national office would prevail. Another pitch for audit work went further. It promised, Mr. Doty said, that audit decisions would be ''made by the global engagement partner with no second guessing or national office reversals.''
Abraham Briloff, a longtime professor of accounting at Baruch College and a critic of misleading accounting practices -- and a man whose articles I had the honor of editing many years ago when I worked at Barron's -- used to tell a joke about a chief executive interviewing prospective auditors and asking, ''What is two plus two?''
The winner, he said, responded, ''What number were you looking for?''
Now it is board audit committees, not chief executives, who are supposed to hire auditors. But the fact that accounting firms thought such promises would help -- and were willing to put the pitches in writing -- is evidence that too little has changed since the accounting oversight board was established.
One can hope most firms would never stoop that low to win business, and that most audit committees would summarily reject any firm that pursued such a course. But because board disciplinary actions can remain secret for years, we have no way of knowing which firm or firms have partners willing to make such offers, or which companies accepted them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James R. Doty, chairman of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, said that his investigators had found significant problems in the audits of many companies that failed or were bailed out in the recent crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH CLEMENT/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); AUDITS (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (58%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (57%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



163 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Veterinarian Recommends Overhaul of Thoroughbred Retirement Foundation

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
The veterinarian hired by the Thoroughbred Retirement Foundation to evaluate the health of its herd says if the rescue group is to survive it must greatly reduce the number of horses it cares for, increase its financial support to the farms where they live and work with smaller organizations to retrain the horses for a second career in equestrian competitions or so they can be adopted.
Dr. Stacey Huntington, a veterinarian based in Springfield, Mo., made the recommendation in a four-page report based on her examination of nearly 860 of the foundation's horses. She was supposed to evaluate more than 1,100 horses but was fired by the T.R.F. group's board last month after finding that many of the horses were malnourished and neglected -- some had died -- and that the foundation's education of caretakers and its oversight of their farms were poor. 
Huntington's report says that 98 percent of the horses she examined lacked basic care like dental, vaccination, deworming and farrier care, and that 380 had ''less than ideal body condition scores,'' according to the T.R.F.'s standards. The foundation, which is based in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and is supported by pillars of the racing establishment, had a $1.2 million deficit in 2009, according to its most recent federal tax filings, and has admitted it fell behind by months and hundreds of thousands of dollars in paying its caretakers.
''I believe that a good group of volunteers and other smaller rescue organizations will help to ease the T.R.F.'s burden if only to help the horses,'' Huntington wrote. ''But T.R.F. has to recognize that their problems are of their own making. Only a 180-degree shift in attitude can help this organization survive.''
Tom Ludt, the foundation's board chairman, acknowledged receiving the report but questioned the findings, saying the group was completing its review with other veterinarians.
''We are finalizing our evaluations and continue to move forward with total review of our herd,'' he wrote in an e-mail Thursday.
Calling Huntington's evaluation of the herd incomplete, Ludt said that she had changed her opinions and that some of her findings were disputed by a veterinarian.
''I have not changed my opinions,'' Huntington said by telephone on Thursday. ''The photographs of individual reports speak for themselves. I had local veterinarians with me at each farm and they have not disagreed.''
Executors of the estate of the breeder and owner Paul Mellon, one of the foundation's largest benefactors, have reviewed Huntington's recommendations and her documentation, including photographic evidence. They initiated the evaluation last December after receiving complaints about the care of the horses, and have paid more than $50,000 over the past several months for veterinary fees, food and urgent care for the horses.
''It's a thorough, straightforward report with a lot of very good ideas of how to take care of these horses,'' said Beverly Carter, an executor of the Mellon estate, which provided a $5 million endowment for the foundation and later contributed an additional $2 million. ''Things have got to change for the sake of the horses.''
The foundation was created in 1982 by an advertising executive, Monique Koehler, and grew into one of the world's largest horse rescue organizations. Ten years ago, it was in full swing, taking in more than 1,000 horses from 2001 to 2005, but at the same time straining its thin resources.
When the economy collapsed in 2008 and donations plunged, the foundation was burdened with a young herd that needed continuing care. By spring 2010, the situation was so dire that the board debated whether publicizing a threat to kill off some of its herd would help or hurt fund-raising efforts.
''What we avoided that day was a serious adult conversation about whether or not we would follow up on our threat, and euthanize 200 horses to get the T.R.F. herd to a more manageable number that could be sustained financially,'' Ray Paulick, a member of the executive board, wrote last month on his Web site, Paulick Report.
About the same time, complaints about the foundation reached Jacque Schultz, senior director of the A.S.P.C.A. Equine Fund, which had committed $350,000 over two years. Schultz said she met with the foundation's executive director, Diana Pikulski, last April, and requested copies of veterinary inspections reports. When the foundation failed to come up with them, Schultz said she met with Pikulski again in November and told her the foundation would have to obtain accreditation from the Global Federation of Animal Sanctuaries if it was to receive its second year of financing, also worth $175,000.
''They promised that by December 31, 2010, we would receive the requested veterinary inspection reports,'' Schultz said in a statement. ''By early March 2011, they had not made any progress on their application for accreditation and we still had not received the promised veterinary reports.''
She added: ''We're very disappointed in T.R.F.'s animal care oversight and that they were not adhering to operational best practices.''
While Huntington wrote that euthanasia should be based only on ''quality of life issues,'' she noted that more than 725 of the horses she examined were younger than 17, and that more than half of them were retraining prospects. She recommended the foundation work more cooperatively and aggressively with other rescue groups to find appropriate homes for the horses.
Care of a horse costs about $2,300 a year, and many of the more than 20 satellite farms are receiving $3 a day, or less than half of what they need. Huntington recommended limiting the number of horses to 50 per farm, which would reduce injuries and allow more personal attention from caretakers; raising the per diem to $4; and paying on time.
''The caretakers are responsible for purchasing the feed and providing direct care for the horses, the monthly payments to them must be a priority,'' she wrote.
Huntington's report is also critical of the foundation's oversight of its facilities, and the education of its caretakers. It recommends removing horses from one farm in Oklahoma, and another in Kentucky, where horses were in such poor shape the Mellon estate is paying for veterinary oversight.
At an adoption center in Virginia, for example, Huntington said that the foundation was paying for barn use but that none of its horses were being stalled there -- they were being left outside. After her inspection, 12 of the foundation's 63 horses were referred for urgent care.
''It cannot be overemphasized that decreasing the herd size is paramount to having T.R.F. continue as an organization,'' she wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (90%); VETERINARY SERVICES (89%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (72%) MISSOURI, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



164 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Battle Starts Over British Bank Rules

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr. and ERIC DASH; Floyd Norris and Edward Wyatt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As Wall Street banks fight to fend off further regulation, the battle in Britain over how best to manage financial institutions considered too big to fail is just beginning.
On Monday, a volley will be fired at the country's politically and economically powerful financial sector by a government-backed commission, which is expected to propose that Britain's largest banks take steps to separate their trading and deposit-taking functions. That goes further than the financial reforms signed into law in the United States last summer, which do not draw as clear a line between speculative trading and more traditional banking services.
The proposals from the panel, the Independent Commission on Banking, will not be definitive; the commission is to produce a final recommendation to the government in September. But its expected recommendations on how to handle the systemic risks that large banks pose to the health of the economy represent a more direct challenge for British banks than the Dodd-Frank financial reform rules have been for American institutions. 
While British regulators are expected to propose that banks make structural changes to defuse the threat from institutions considered too big to fail, their counterparts in Washington have focused on putting in place shock absorbers to mitigate the effects of another financial crisis. These American rules include making banks hold more capital to cushion unexpected losses and giving new legal powers for regulators to help failing financial institutions unwind in a way that does not threaten the entire system.
Despite all the complaints from Wall Street about Dodd-Frank, several British institutions have hinted that they might move their base of operations to New York from London. By contrast, the veiled threats by American banks that they might go elsewhere, voiced when the Dodd-Frank legislation was being debated, never gained traction.
Last week, Robert E. Diamond Jr., the chief executive of Barclays, issued a full-throated defense of keeping risky investment banking and safe deposit-taking under the same roof.
''It's the model,'' he said, ''that's enabled us to build a bank that's diversified by business, by geography, by customers and by funding sources.''
But leaders of the commission have already called into question the argument -- a core maxim of international banking -- that universal banks like Barclays in Britain and Bank of America in the United States provide a public benefit because of their size, diverse range of services and ability to attract low-cost capital.
''In this regard,'' John Vickers, a former chief economist for the Bank of England who is chairman of the banking commission, said during a speech this year, ''it seems quite hard to identify and quantify real efficiencies as distinct from purely private gains.''
Mr. Vickers's tone may be more subtle than the one used by the country's chief bank critic, the Bank of England governor, Mervyn A. King, in arguing that banks in Britain are still too large for the country's good. But the broader message is clear: the drive for profits in large banks surpasses the drive for efficiencies, resulting in actions that continue to pose a systemic risk to the national and global economy.
With the British banking sector much larger as a share of the national economy than its United States counterpart, it is no surprise that the debate has been more pointed in Britain than in Washington. The three largest British diversified banks -- HSBC, Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland -- have assets that exceed Britain's total economic output. At the same time, the government has majority stakes in R.B.S., and Lloyd's, another large financial institution.
''This is a midsize country with an oversized bank system,'' said Peter Hahn, a former investment banker at Citigroup who teaches finance at the Cass Business School in London. ''We need to figure out a scalable bank system for the taxpayer to back.''
The most far-reaching proposal under consideration by Mr. Vickers's panel would separate, or ring fence, the deposit-taking areas of the banks from their investment banking activities. The commission is not considering requiring banks to separate into independent companies, as happened in the United States in the Depression, but to operate as distinct subsidiaries with their own balance sheets belonging to a broader holding company.
That proposal, which would make it considerably more expensive to raise capital for investment banking, would be much more painful for Britain's banks than the so-called Volcker Rule in the United States.
Under the United States approach, originally advocated in a stronger form by Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman who served as an adviser to President Obama, banks' freedom to trade with their own capital and manage hedge funds would be limited. But they would still be able to borrow money economically because their balance sheets would remain unified.
American regulators have been grappling with how to apply the Volcker Rule, and intense lobbying has been taking place. Banks would still be allowed to trade to serve customers -- but not to speculate. Telling the two apart can be difficult, and banks have been hoping for clear dividing lines so they would know just how far they can go.
But some banks have spun off large trading operations, and American regulators have accepted that there will still be banks that are too large to fail. Efforts to define just what additional rules they will face are still in their infancy.
For some experts in Britain, the approach in the United States is simply not strong enough.
''In the end, you just can't regulate these banks -- they have too much money and too many lawyers,'' said Andrew Hilton, the director of CSFI in London, a financial services research group. ''We should be prepared to split the casino bank from the utility bank.''
After successfully diluting the toughest elements of the Volcker Rule before it passed, the banking lobbyists are now putting their effort into other parts of the Dodd-Frank law that could cut into profits at their lucrative consumer banking businesses.
Banks want to reverse, or at least delay, the adoption of new interchange regulations, which would cap what banks charge retailers to process debit card transactions. Last year, those fees totaled more than $20 billion.
The secondary target of banks is the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, an independent agency that will oversee nearly all consumer financial activity once it is up and running in July. Republicans in the House -- whose most prominent local constituents are often community bankers -- have introduced bills to cut back the bureau's authority over mortgage loans and other consumer products.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (50%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



165 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: Picking Up the Pieces in Florida

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
NORTH PORT, Fla. -- One recent morning, Shannon Moore raced through a musty pink house -- three bedrooms, two baths -- that was advertised as having ''good bones'' and ''primed for renovation.'' As in many recently foreclosed homes in Florida, the appliances and air-conditioner were missing from this one, either taken by the previous residents or stolen.
''It's not as bad as I thought,'' Ms. Moore said. ''You could probably get this place fixed up for $8,000. You could get a refrigerator on Craigslist for $200.''
''$70,000?'' she asks aloud, referring to the list price. ''What the heck?'' Ms. Moore, a real estate broker, has found a profitable niche in the wreckage of Florida's real estate market, where a glut of vacant homes continues to depress prices. She scouts out deals for several groups of investors, including one that counts a professional poker player as a member and a group of Macedonians from Toronto. 
Just a few years back, real estate investors were considered pariahs for fomenting a buying frenzy that drove home prices to stratospheric levels. This time around, housing experts say investors are desperately needed because there are so many vacant homes and homebuyers are having such trouble obtaining credit.
''If Florida is going to have a comeback anytime soon, investors are going to have to play a role,'' said Rick Sharga, a senior vice president at RealtyTrac. ''There are just too many properties for traditional home buyers to absorb.''
Of course, speculators have been picking through the rubble of America's real estate collapse for several years now, and the housing industry remains deeply troubled across the country, suggesting that it would be far worse were it not for investors. Data released by the National Association of Realtors recently shows that investors represented 17 percent of all home sales in 2010 nationwide, the same as the previous year. But in recent months, investment activity has picked up, according to Walter Molony, an association spokesman, who attributed the increase to relatively cheap prices and the lack of available credit for homebuyers.
There is no shortage of deals in Florida. The Census Bureau recently reported that 17 percent of the homes in Florida were vacant. Even though the figure includes vacation homes that were unoccupied at the time of the survey, the underlying rate within the state reflects a sustained downturn.
The median house price in Florida, meanwhile, had dropped to $121,900 in February, from $257,800 in June 2006, a decline of 53 percent, according to Metrostudy, a housing research firm. Indeed, some houses and condominiums in Florida are selling for roughly the price of a practical family sedan, new or used.
For instance, a two-bedroom house in Port Charlotte, just south of North Port on the gulf coast of the state, recently sold for $8,000, and listings for $25,000 homes are not uncommon. Many experts expect prices to drop even further.
''Nationally we are expecting prices to stabilize by the end of this year,'' said Celia Chen, senior director at Moody's Analytics. ''We don't expect it to stabilize in Florida until sometime in 2012, and that's a direct overhang of the excess inventory.''
Despite the risks, several investors expressed optimism about their chances of making money, if not a killing.
''A wise man told me that the best time to enter a business is during a recession,'' said Peter Ide, a British builder who was transferred by his company to Florida to buy up homes, fix them up and resell them. ''The potential here is phenomenal.''
Steve Barnhardt, a friend of Ms. Moore's, said he began buying up houses to stay afloat until the market revived. On this morning, he was installing inexpensive carpet in a three-bedroom house that he purchased for $76,000 and had just sold for $103,000; he estimates his profit was $9,000 after paying $5,000 in back taxes and closing costs. (He says he could have made more if not for ''low-life'' neighbors.)
''The things I used to do are no longer out there,'' said Mr. Barnhardt, who had previously made a comfortable living investing in commercial real estate and operating heavy equipment. ''Right now, this is what is paying my property taxes and keeping me alive.''
Not everyone views real estate investors as that benign, or savvy. April Charney, a public aid lawyer who lives in nearby Venice, questioned why investors would fix up houses with so few eligible buyers. Besides, she said the new owners were likely to end up with a vacant home next door with squatters, mold or filthy pools.
''They are dreaming,'' she said. ''That's just a pipe dream in North Port.''
As for investors, there is the occasional reminder that they are benefitting from the misfortunes of others. A few weeks ago, a painter found a letter addressed to ''the next occupant of this fine home'' in one of the houses Ms. Moore's investors had purchased.
''This house was my dream but like life sometimes dreams don't work out,'' the letter read. ''Now I'm just surrounded with boxes of memories and dashed intentions of what may have been. So do me a favor. Make your own good memories here.''
About 35 miles southeast of Sarasota, North Port was carved out of shrub land in the 1950s by the General Development Corporation, which sold the plots to buyers up north. It remained a relatively quiet community until the last decade, when developers erected one subdivision after the next.
North Port's population doubled in less than four years, city officials say. There are now about 55,000 residents.
In those high-flying days of Florida real estate, Ms. Moore said she would buy up vacant shrub land and sell seven or eight lots on a good day, for $50,000 apiece, making as much as 40 percent in profits.
Those days are long gone, and North Port has fallen hard. Ms. Moore, a Florida native, is stuck with four plots that cost her $38,000 each (each is worth $5,000 or less) and a duplex she bought for $140,000 (it's now worth $30,000, she says).
She is also $100,000 under water on her house and living on a street, Mistleto Lane, in which a third of the houses are vacant, including one just across the street.
Nonetheless, Ms. Moore reinvented herself as an intelligence agent of sorts, alerting her clients, for instance, to details like whether a house has undesirable neighbors, Chinese drywall or an unsavory past. (She steered her clients away from a three-bedroom house that appeared to be a steal, but was tied to a grisly rape and murder.)
One investor, a Florida businessman, exclusively buys duplexes. Ms. Moore's Macedonian clients want three-bedroom, two-bathroom houses that cost about $100,000, which they buy and rent. Mr. Ide's group, which includes a retired Maryland developer and the poker player, buys homes at foreclosure auctions, fixes them up and resells them.
Since investors can't inspect the inside of a foreclosed house before auction, Mr. Ide's group is particularly reliant on Ms. Moore's local knowledge. If she isn't familiar with a house, she drives by and often brings along two of her three daughters, who are home-schooled. (Her 13-year-old, Willow, has made as much as $400 a week on Craigslist, selling belongings left behind in vacant homes.)
During a recent auction, Ms. Moore sat in front of a computer screen in her office, with Mr. Ide's partner, Jon Breen, the retired developer, on the speaker phone. Thirteen properties were being auctioned by the county this morning, though Mr. Breen focused his attention on a half dozen or so.
Ms. Moore pulled up comparable sales and back taxes, while Mr. Breen calculated his costs aloud.
''Barcelona has $8,367 in back taxes,'' she says, referring to a house on Barcelona Avenue in Sarasota. ''Remember the house next door had an odd color.''
''I think it's a junky piece of property,'' Mr. Breen said, before bidding $59,000.
Later, when the house sells for $64,001, she says, ''Who is the dummy today? They are paying way too much.''
Mr. Breen ended up buying two houses in North Port, one for $111,001 and another for $77,002.
Later that day, when Ms. Moore met the investors to change the locks and inspect the houses, they were pleasantly surprised. Both houses were in relatively good condition and would require only some paint and minor repairs.
''This is about as good as it gets,'' Mr. Ide said, as he inspected the $111,001 house, a four-bedroom where some water damage around the Jacuzzi was the only apparent problem. But it did get better.
A week later, after $4,500 was spent on new appliances and repairs, an offer was made on the house for $152,000.
Ms. Moore, meanwhile, has plowed her earnings into her own deals, recently purchasing a second duplex for $30,000 in cash. ''I'm getting $650 a side in rent, a lot better than the stock market,'' she said. ''My plan is to buy up as much multifamily as I can while the market is down.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In North Port, Fla., Shannon Moore scouts foreclosed houses for those that can be fixed and freshened and sold at a profit. (B1)
 Shannon Moore, a real estate broker, walks through a vacant home in North Port, Fla., top, and tries to figure out how much it will cost to give the house a quick gloss and turn it around. Left, some homes need new appliances and extensive repairs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); FORECLOSURE (72%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SEDANS (68%); CENSUS (65%); POKER (52%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



166 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Usual Directors In Boardrooms

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GOLDFARB and ANTONY CURRIE

 BODY:
Apparently, banks in the United States don't think their boardrooms were the problem. That's the obvious interpretation when so little has shifted at them since before the crisis. Many directors clearly lacked the educational or work backgrounds needed to understand the derivatives and other complex products whose risks eventually overtook their institutions. Worse, they forgot or never learned the many lessons of past bubbles and manias. And industry knowledge on bank boards is no more extensive today than it was four years ago.
At nine big American banks, including Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo, only about one of every seven nonexecutive directors has any financial expertise, roughly the same percentage as in 2007, according to research by Nestor Advisors. That compares to nearly one in three at a comparable sampling of large European banks, where there has been improvement since the crisis. 
Financial experience doesn't guarantee independent judgment or, crucially, the willingness to ask tough questions. But not much else is different at bank boards, either. They are no smaller and their directors no less entrenched now than before the crisis. That's partly because two-thirds of the 131 directors at the nine firms, all of which took bailout funds, are the same individuals. Only Citigroup and Bank of America, whose chairman is now Charles O. Holliday Jr., conducted overhauls.
There's no one-size-fits-all approach to structuring a board. But 13 members, the median among the banks in the group, both pre- and postcrisis, is probably too many to foster individual accountability or decisive action. With a median tenure of nine years at the start of 2011, the same as in 2007, there are surely instances in which directors lose independence, as evidenced by the inexplicable bonus increases just awarded by Goldman directors to the firm's top brass. While a diversity of backgrounds and views is to be encouraged, it shouldn't come at the expense of core experience in the firm's business.
Reasonable minds will disagree about whether the reforms in practices and regulation forced on banks will prevent another shock. But it's hard to argue corporate governance at the big banks has changed enough to make any difference at all.
Jefferies Expands
Jefferies keeps bucking the trend. As many of its larger Wall Street rivals pare operations, this relative minnow has been expanding. The question is whether Jefferies can sustain the pace and in time become a Goldman Sachs, or if it will instead go the way of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Nearly half a century old, Jefferies is bigger than a boutique and has expanded far beyond equities. Its lineup now includes municipal bonds and an enlarged investment bank. Staffing has increased by more than a third since the financial crisis struck. Now it's adding commodities and futures, by buying Prudential Bache for $430 million.
Jefferies is still far from joining the big boys. Net profit last year was just $280 million, far less than what Goldman harvested. There's still scope to grow, however. New hires arguably have not yet settled in enough to crank out their full earnings potential. Shareholders appear to have baked in a better relative performance at Jefferies: the stock trades at about 1.7 times book value, double Morgan Stanley's multiple and a third better than Goldman's.
But expansion can be costly. Compensation accounted for almost a whopping 60 percent of revenue last year, compared with about 40 percent at Goldman. And return on equity in its fiscal first quarter, which ended Feb. 28, was a modest 12 percent, even though leverage ticked up to around 13.5 times equity, roughly the same as in 2007.
Others have trod this path before. Pushing beyond their sweet spots proved too hard for the so-called Four Horsemen -- Hambrecht & Quist, Alex Brown, Robertson Stephens and Montgomery Securities. They sold to far larger banks in the late 1990s. Meanwhile, the financial pain of establishing a European hub helped persuade bosses at D.L.J. to accept $11.5 billion from Credit Suisse in 2000.
There aren't many obvious buyers these days. And with bank returns lackluster across the board, Jefferies is under no pressure to do anything but grow and improve the bottom line. But if the risks of expansion prove too much of a drag on the benefits, a sale may look increasingly attractive.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles O. Holliday Jr. was named chairman of Bank of America a year ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BONDS (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%)

PERSON: CHARLES O HOLLIDAY JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



167 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: Oil Pipeline From Canada

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''No to a New Tar Sands Pipeline'' (editorial, April 3): 
As oil prices continue to top the $100-per-barrel mark and gasoline prices hover around $4 a gallon, American consumers are becoming increasingly concerned. Strife and instability in the Middle East are causing the United States to look for more secure supplies of oil.
Last week, President Obama singled out Canada as a ''stable and steady and reliable'' supplier of oil to America in the future. The United States has a choice: receive oil from a stable, friendly nation in Canada or get oil from volatile, unfriendly regimes overseas.
TransCanada's Keystone XL pipeline can help provide that energy security. The pipeline is a $7 billion, shovel-ready project that will transport 500,000 barrels per day of crude to American refineries. Keystone will put Americans back to work, creating 20,000 construction and manufacturing jobs and 118,000 spinoff jobs. The project will also inject $20 billion into the United States economy and provide millions more in state and local taxes for decades.
Pipelines are the safest way to transport oil -- safer than truck, rail or barge. After three years of intense study, over 90 open houses and public meetings, thousands of pages of information provided and hundreds more hours of testimony to answer questions, it is time to approve the Keystone XL project to help ensure a secure energy future for America. RUSS GIRLING President and Chief Executive TransCanada Corporation Calgary, Alberta, April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL SANDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (65%); BULK SHIPPING (58%)

COMPANY: TRANSCANADA CORP (83%)

TICKER: TRP (TSX) (83%); TRP (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (83%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (83%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



168 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23B

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: In Dorchester, a House Becomes a Home for Art

BYLINE: By RACHEL CROMIDAS. 
rcromidas@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
The wooden floors of the house at 6918 South Dorchester Avenue came from a West Side bowling alley. The stacks of vinyl records once stocked a Hyde Park record shop, and some of the windows once served as doors in a museum. Viewed from the kitchen, the words ''Museum Hours: 9 to 5'' run backward across the glass.
The works of the artist Theaster Gates have been displayed in museums in the Midwest, Houston and New York. But in his Dorchester Avenue residence in the Grand Crossing neighborhood, discarded pieces of Chicago's urban landscape are helping him create a house-turned-artwork-turned-incubator. 
Mr. Gates has combined a former candy store, a single-family house and a duplex across the street into a site of artistic and community change for a neighborhood that has suffered years of blight and cultural neglect. The installation is an entry in a growing art movement to create ''hybridized'' arts spaces that serve multiple functions, taking inspiration from installations in Houston and Los Angeles, as well as in Chicago's Woodlawn neighborhood in a community center called the Experimental Station.
For the buildings that Mr. Gates and other cognoscenti call The Dorchester Projects, trash-to-treasure is an understatement. In the first house, the former candy store acquired in 2005, ware boards from an old Wrigley chewing gum factory smell faintly of spearmint. He bought vinyl records, shelved nearby, when Dr. Wax, a Hyde Park record store, closed in 2010.
Next door, a two-story house refitted with salvaged wood holds hundreds of architecture books from the now-defunct Prairie Avenue Bookshop, as well as a collection of half-century-old lantern slides donated by the University of Chicago. The duplex across the street is not yet open to visitors.
As part of the hybridized art movement, Mr. Gates has begun inviting local performance artists and the public into the first two houses. By doing so, he hopes to catalyze a community change in the area around Stony Island Avenue and 71st Street that once was a bustling district of businesses, jazz clubs and restaurants.
''My neighborhood, like any other neighborhood that has been underresourced for a long time, has had its fits and starts of development,'' Mr. Gates said. ''There have always been dedicated people in my neighborhood, folks who keep their lawns and take out their garbage and say hi to each other. It just happens to lack certain cultural amenities that would make it desirable to other people.''
He said he wanted to battle the stigma shared by the nearby Woodlawn and South Shore neighborhoods: A notion that businesses, musicians and artists cannot succeed there.
Michael Darling, the chief curator for the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago, said Mr. Gates's project was emblematic of a growing movement to mix art, urban planning and activism in blighted communities. He drew comparisons with the Experimental Station, founded by the artist Dan Peterman, who has influenced Mr. Gates.
''There are these collectives not bound by a museum or particular art gallery, but that have some broader neighborhood implications,'' Mr. Darling said.
He added that he was sure Mr. Gates ''was very aware of those things, but he's bringing his own spin to it, and also dealing with today's economic and social climate.''
Mr. Gates, who has shown his work at the Museum of Contemporary Art as part of its 12X12 series, is known for installation art, pottery, music and other performance art.
The Dorchester houses are private residencies, not public art galleries. But over the next year they will host five artist-in-residency groups. The first artist in residence, David Boykin, a jazz musician, has conducted open rehearsals at The Dorchester Projects, and he said he expected to record an album there later this month with a trio that bears his name.
Mr. Boykin said the initiative had the potential to be a South Side anchor for performance artists. ''There's this absence of music being played in the community,'' he said.
''As a black jazz artist, you grow up in your neighborhood on the South Side of Chicago, on the West Side of Chicago, and your music is informed by the people in that neighborhood,'' he said. ''But the more successful you become, you find yourself being further and further removed from that community to play your music.''
At a recent performance by Mr. Boykin, Jibril Naim sat on a bar stool in the eat-in kitchen, bobbing his head along with others in the small audience who had come from various parts of Chicago and the south suburbs.
''You would never imagine a place like this being in this part of Chicago,'' said Mr. Naim, a Homewood resident who grew up in Hyde Park.
''This area has a serious history,'' he said, ''it had the Blackstone Rangers, the notorious black gang of the early '60s. People were very skeptical of how far they'd travel outside of their neighborhoods. Today is another day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The artist Theaster Gates is transforming a part of South Dorchester Avenue into a venue for the arts. He is using donated items, including old metal boxes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL BEATY FOR CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MUSIC STORES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); BOOKSTORES (77%); CONFECTIONERY (74%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%); BOWLING CENTERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); MIDWEST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



169 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Slaughterhouse Shortage Stunting Area's Eat-Local Movement

BYLINE: By DAVID FERRY. 
davidpferry@gmail.com

 BODY:
One might expect the Bay Area -- as the epicenter of the eat-local movement and a region with a long tradition of cattle ranching -- to be a mecca for producers of organic and grass-fed beef. But there is a problem: a shortage of slaughterhouses is so acute that it is stunting the growth of this emerging industry.
Only one slaughterhouse remains in the Bay Area, in Petaluma, and there are just a smattering of them in all of Northern California. Ranchers must often truck their grass-fed cattle hundreds of miles to the nearest plant, and they face backlogs in the busy season that can lead to waits lasting many months. This means fewer -- and more expensive -- local skirt steaks at the butcher shop, and more carbon with that grass-fed burger.
The slaughterhouse shortage, and associated difficulties in creating an efficient supply chain, has already kept aspiring local-beef entrepreneurs out of the business, University of California researchers say. And when the local supply of grass-fed meat gets low, out-of-region producers pick up the slack. 
Meanwhile, established local purveyors fret about what could happen if the Petaluma slaughterhouse, Rancho Veal, closed.
''The vulnerability is extreme,'' said David Evans, owner of Marin Sun Farms in Point Reyes Station, one of the largest local grass-fed cattle operations. ''It's enough of a problem that if one slaughterhouse goes out of business, the alternatives are too far away to be recognizably viable.''
Mr. Evans said his contingency plan was to buy Rancho Veal if it were threatened with closing.
Slaughterhouses were once common in the Bay Area. Rosemary Mucklow, the director emeritus of the National Meat Association, an industry trade group based in Oakland, said that as recently as 45 years ago, there were still dozens of slaughterhouses and meatpacking plants in San Francisco.
''When I came to town, San Francisco had a Butchertown on Third Street,'' Ms. Mucklow said, adding that she saw her first hog slaughter in what is now the Bayview neighborhood.
These days, little remains of Butchertown except memories and the name given to the nearby Dogpatch neighborhood, which, according to legend, was populated by feral dogs that lived off slaughterhouse scraps.
The disappearance of slaughterhouses is not a local phenomenon, nor is it limited to urban areas where residents do not want an abattoir in their backyards. Nationwide, the number of meat-processing centers has declined steadily for the past three decades, as the industry has consolidated and turned to large facilities where thousands of cattle can be fed, killed and cut up over the course of a day. In 1979, there were 70 federally inspected cattle slaughterhouses in California, according to the United States Department of Agriculture; by 2009, there were 23.
In some regions of the country, notably the Midwest, the growing popularity of ''niche meat''-- a catchall term that includes grass-fed, organic, sustainable and kosher meat -- has led to a revival of the small slaughterhouse, said Arion Thiboumery, a researcher at Iowa State University and head of an organization dedicated to helping niche-meat producers and processors.
But Mr. Thiboumery is pessimistic about the chances for new facilities in California. Here, potential operators face stringent state regulations, unforgiving zoning laws and the dreaded Nimby factor.
''Basically, if I were to build a slaughterhouse, the last place I would build it is California,'' Mr. Thiboumery said.
Sallie Calhoun, the co-owner of Paicines Ranch in San Benito County, south of San Jose, would certainly second that notion.
Five years ago, Ms. Calhoun was driving three to five hours to get her grass-fed cattle slaughtered, and she decided to try to help ease the supply-line bottleneck. First, she tried to build a facility on her ranch, but she was foiled by the complaints of a neighbor who hoped to open a wine-tasting room next to his vineyard.
Then she managed to reopen a shuttered slaughterhouse -- which allowed her to circumvent the county permitting process, she said -- only to see it flounder during the height of the recession. She called it quits.
''I spent about two years working on a project, and frankly at the end I decided that life is too short,'' Ms. Calhoun said. ''Maybe I just gave up.''
Although Ms. Calhoun thinks keeping the few remaining slaughterhouses open ''is the best thing we could do'' for ranchers, she cautions that simply building new ones is not an easy fix. The entire supply side of the market needs reform, she said, adding that ranchers must work more closely with meatpackers and distributors to make the operation more efficient.
Part of the problem is the seasonality of the meat business, which can leave a slaughterhouse all but idle January through April.
''The facilities are in high demand, but not year-round,'' Lauren Gwin, a researcher at Oregon State University, said in an e-mail. ''Most people want their animals slaughtered at around the same time. Small processors that serve a fairly specific geographic region are subject to that region's geography in terms of when livestock are born and thus when they are ready for harvest.''
There is also the complicating fact that customers of niche meat can be very particular, and sometimes seek assurances that their cow was humanely treated before it died.
Larry Bain, co-founder of Let's be Frank, which uses grass-fed beef in its hot dogs, favorites in San Francisco, went through three California ranches in his search for consistent, quality grass-fed beef. When he finally came across Five Dot Ranch in Susanville, just over 100 miles east of Redding, he was delighted -- the ranchers cared about their cattle and ensured they were humanely slaughtered.
But the situation in Susanville is uncertain. Mr. Bain has had supply troubles before -- large slaughterhouses refused to take the time to collect and separate the trimming he needs to make the perfect hot dog -- and he worries that he may be in for more.
''There is just one slaughter facility, and if they go out of business, we're in serious trouble,'' Mr. Bain said. ''There's a deep need for slaughter facilities that are humane.''
Despite the hurdles, at least three groups of local investors and consultants are working on plans to open new plants outside the Bay Area. One, slated to be in Siskiyou County, near Mount Shasta, may break ground in the next month or two, said Talia Dillman, a food-business consultant with Live Culture Company in Oakland.
''Our client believes that having a supply chain where we control every element of the process is really, really important,'' Ms. Dillman said. ''That's why he'll invest this money -- because he wants to be able to control the entire supply chain.''
But Chris Johansen, the owner of a slaughterhouse in Orland, west of Chico, laughs off the idea that the niche-meat business is creating enough demand to support local meatpackers. He reels off a list of four plants that have shut down recently.
''If there was that much money to be made -- where I could get an office, with an easy chair and a secretary -- I wouldn't be standing on the line working on the meat,'' Mr. Johansen said. ''But there's not that much money to be made.''
Mr. Evans of Marin Sun Farms said he did not care who operated slaughterhouses -- as long as they stayed open.
''Maybe they should be nonprofit? Maybe government owned?'' Mr. Evans said. ''I don't care, O.K.? Just please someone solve this problem so I can bring my cattle to market!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The grass-fed cattle raised at Marin Sun Farms at Point Reyes Station are sent to the Rancho Veal slaughterhouse, below left, in Petaluma, the last remaining slaughterhouse in the Bay Area. The meat and other products are sold at the farm's butcher shop. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF CATTLE FARMING (91%); BEEF (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); MAMMALS (89%); MEATS (89%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MEAT INSPECTION (73%); MEAT STORES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



170 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 3089 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By SUNITA REDDY

 BODY:
Around Town
Museums and Sites
American Museum of Natural History (Monday) ''A Hitchhiker's Guide to Habitable Planets in Our Galaxy'' is a lecture by Linda Elkins-Tanton, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, on what is known about planetary formation; part of Hayden Planetarium's ''Frontiers in Astrophysics'' lecture series. $15, or $13.50 for members, students and 60+. At 7:30 p.m., Central Park West and 79th Street , (212) 769-5100, amnh.org.20110407
Museum of the City of New York (Friday through Sunday, Tuesday through Thursday) ''Joel Grey/A New York Life,'' a photographic exhibition that explores Mr. Grey's life and the city of New York, opens on Tuesday and runs through mid-August. On view through May 1, ''Ain't Nothing Like the Real Thing: How the Apollo Theater Shaped American Entertainment.'' Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street , (212) 534-1672, mcny.org; museum admission: $10; $6 for students and 65+; or free for under 12 and members.20110407 
New York Public Library for the Performing Arts (Saturday and Thursday) Several film screenings, a lecture and a performance are planned in conjunction with ''Ireland America: The Ties That Bind,'' a look at the enduring Irish art of performance. The exhibition includes scores, books, posters, recordings and video segments and is on view through Aug. 13. On Saturday at 2:30 p.m., a lecture about Irish traditions found in vocal and instrumental tune books will include a performance by the Sara Banleigh Band and Friends. Also on Saturday at 6:30 p.m., a screening of ''From Shore to Shore'' (1993), a documentary about contemporary Irish life by Patrick Mullins, who will be present to discuss the film. Film screenings continue on Thursday at 6:30 p.m. with ''Flea Ceoil'' (1967) by Louis Marcus and ''The Pilgrimage of Ti Jean'' (1978) by Philip Donnellan. New York University's Glucksman Ireland House is a co-sponsor of the exhibition; the films are part of a series presented by the Irish Film Institute. Exhibition hours: Friday, Saturday, Tuesday and Wednesday, noon to 6 p.m., and Monday and Thursday, noon to 8 p.m., 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center , (212) 642-0142, nypl.org; free.20110407
Gardens
Brooklyn Botanic Garden (Friday through Sunday, Tuesday through Thursday) ''Graceful Perseverance,'' a display of rugged bonsai from the permanent collection. Historical haikus are displayed with specimens. Garden hours: Tuesday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., and Saturday and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., 1000 Washington Avenue, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn , (718) 623-7200, bbg.org; $10; $5 for students and 65+; free for under 12 and members and for 65+ on Fridays; free on Saturdays, 10 a.m. to noon (except Saturdays with special programs); free on Tuesdays.20110407
Events
23rd Street Festival (Saturday) 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., between Eighth and Ninth Avenue, Manhattan.20110407
92nd Street Y (Saturday, Sunday, Monday and Wednesday) Saturday at 8 p.m., Swing Dance Party with live music; lessons at 7 p.m.; $18 at the door, or $15 for college students in advance. Sunday at 7:30 p.m., Jeff Greenfield will talk with Jerry Della Femina on American advertising; $29. Monday at 8 p.m., Shirley MacLaine, actress, dancer and author, speaks about her life; $29. Wednesday at 7 p.m., Francine Segan, food historian, reveals the food habits and table manners of the Elizabethean era in ''Shakespeare's Kitchen: Peacocks and Pageantry''; $40, includes tastings. 1395 Lexington Avenue , (212) 415-5500, 92y.org.20110407
Bayside Historical Society (Sunday) ''Life and Times of the Civil War Soldier,'' a re-enactment by costumed actors portraying life. At 2 p.m., Fort Totten Park, Bayside, Queens , (718) 352-1548, baysidehistorical.org; $5, or $10 per family.20110407
Book Release Celebration at Harlem Stage (Monday) This multi-genre evening celebrates the release this week of ''BAsics, From the Talks and Writings of Bob Avakian'' (RCP Publications), a book of thoughts from the leader of the Revolutionary Communist Party, USA. The evening includes readings of poetry and prose, jazz performances and an art exhibition. Participants include the actress Ruby Dee; the singers Maggie Brown and Maluca Mala; the musicians David Murray and Matthew Shipp; and the visual artists Wafaa Bilal, Emory Douglas, Wangechi Mutu and Hank Willis Thomas. At 7 p.m., Harlem Stage at Aaron Davis Hall, 150 Convent Avenue at 135th Street, Hamilton Heights , (212) 691-3345, revolutionbooksnyc.org; $35; $15 for students or the unemployed; $100 premium.20110407
'Broadway by Request' (Saturday) Betty Buckley performs Broadway classics. At 8 p.m.; reception following for V.I.P. ticket holders. Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts at Brooklyn College, 2900 Campus Road, Flatbush , (718) 951-4500, brooklyncenter.com; $45 and $65 in advance; $55 and $75 at the door; $175 for V.I.P. tickets.20110407
Broadway Festival (Sunday) 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., between 17th and 23rd Streets, Union Square.20110407
Buster Keaton Films With Live Music (Sunday) ''Cops'' (1922) and ''Playhouse'' (1921) , both with the silent film comic Buster Keaton, will be accompanied by live New Orleans-style jazz by the Red Hook Ramblers. At 8 p.m., Jalopy Theater and School of Music, 315 Columbia Street, Red Hook, Brooklyn , (718) 395-3214, jalopy.biz; $10.20110407
City University of New York Graduate Center (Thursday) At 1 p.m., ''The Music of Robert Schumann,'' featuring Randall Scarlata, baritone, and Thomas Sauer, pianist. At 6 p.m., a screening of Lionel Rogosin's 1956 film ''On the Bowery.'' 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street , (212) 868-4444, gc.cuny.edu/events; $8, or $6 for members.20110407
English Handbell Festival and Concert (Sunday) Eileen Laurence, guest conductor, will direct 100 handbell ringers from Massachusetts, New York and Virginia performing compositions from around the world; at 4 p.m. The festival will also include recitals featuring other unusual instruments, including the carillon at 3 p.m. and the Aeolian-Skinner pipe organ, which has more than 12,000 pipes, at 3:30 p.m. Riverside Church, 490 Riverside Drive, between 120th and 122nd Streets, Morningside Heights , (212) 870-6784, theriversidechurchny.org; $20, or $15 for students20110407
Havana Film Festival (Friday through Thursday) This 12th annual festival, with screenings of more than 50 films from 18 countries, features panel discussions, workshops and other events at locations around the city. Some events are free. Schedule, ticket prices and other information: hffny.com. (212) 946-1839.20110407
'I Meditate NY' (Sunday) A group 2,700 participants meditate as part of a wider campaign to offer meditation in a form relevant to the 21st century; led by Sri Sri Ravi Shankar of the Art of Living Foundation. At 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center , (212) 721-6500, imeditateny.org; $35 to $250.20110407
'Lady Windermere's Fan' (Wednesday and Thursday) Oscar Wilde's comedy about Victorian morals and marriage will be performed by the Gotham Radio Theater at two branches of the New York Public Library: on Wednesday at 6 p.m. at the Jefferson Market Library, 425 Avenue of the Americas, at 10th Street, Greenwich Village; and Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Belmont Library, 610 East 186th Street, the Bronx. gothamradiotheatre.com; free.20110407
Macy's Flower Show (Through Sunday) ''Towers of Flowers'' is the theme of this year's 37th annual floral display, open during store hours. This weekend: Friday and Saturday, 10 a.m. to 9:30 p.m., and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Macy's Herald Square, 151 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 494-4495, macys.com; freeMacy's Herald Square, 151 West 34th Street, Manhattan f this year's 37th annual floral display, open during store hours. This weekend: Friday and Saturday, 10 a.m. to 9:30 p.m., and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Macy's Herald Square, 151 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 494-4495, macys.com; free.20110407
'New Classics for the Flute' (Monday) Immanuel Davis, flutist, and Stephen Gosling, pianist, play in a recital that puts the flute in a variety of settings and styles of the 20th and 21st centuries, featuring composers from around the world, including a premiere by the Russian composer Nikolai Kapustin. At 7:30 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan , (212) 501-3330, kaufman-center.org; $20; $15 for 62 and over; or $10 for students.20110407
New York Anarchist Book Fair (Friday through Sunday) More than books can be found at this annual event. On Friday at 7 p.m., a bicycle tour will set off from the Washington Arch and end with a party at a nearby bar. On Saturday beginning at 11 a.m., visitors can browse through tables of books, and there will be panels and discussions on topics like environmental justice and psychological freedom. Panels will continue on Sunday. Other events associated with the book fair will take place at other locations; information: anarchistbookfair.net. Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village , anarchistbookfair.net; free.20110407
NoHo Art Walk (Friday through Thursday) A display of art in the windows of businesses in NoHo, sponsored by the NoHo Business Improvement District and continuing through April 19. nohony.org; free.20110407
Photography Shows on Aging and Nature (Friday, Saturday, Tuesday through Thursday) An aging population in the United States and ecological issues in Madagascar are the subjects of two photography displays by the photojournalist Ed Kashi. ''Aging in America'' and ''Madagascar'' can be viewed Tuesdays through Saturdays from noon to 4 p.m. through May 14. World Financial Center, Courtyard Gallery, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan , (212) 945-0505, artsworldfinancialcenter.com; free.20110407
'Sanctuary Project' (Friday and Sunday) An evening of specially commissioned music and poems, based on the theme of sanctuary, will be presented by the musical ensemble Lunatics at Large at two Manhattan locations: on Friday at 8 p.m. at Christ and St. Stephen's Church, 120 West 69th Street, and Sunday at 7 p.m. at Synagogue for the Arts, 49 White Street, TriBeCa; the poets will also take part. The performances are part of a series that began last month; another performance is planned for April 21. lunaticsensemble.com; Friday, suggested donation of $20, or $10 for students and 65+; Sunday, $20.20110407
Charlie Sheen (Friday and Sunday) ''This IS where you will hear the REAL story from the Warlock,'' the actor-ranter says on the Web site of Radio City Music Hall. ''I dare you to keep up with me.'' Well. Early reactions to Mr. Sheen's tough-to-classify tour, titled ''My Violent Torpedo of Truth/Defeat Is Not an Option,'' suggest the audience will have as much to say as the tiger-blooded headliner. We'll see what comes of his stop in New York. At 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall , (800) 745-3000, radiocity.com; $79.50 to $109.20110407
Tartan Day Parade (Saturday) The annual march up Avenue of the Americas, from 45th to 55th Streets, beginning at 2 p.m. tartanweek.com.20110407
Urban Park Rangers (Sunday) ''Magnificent Maples,'' a nature tour about the tapping of maple trees, meeting at the Nature Center at Crotona Park, the Bronx, Charlotte Street and Crotona Park East; at 11 a.m., (718) 378-2061, nyc.gov/parks/rangers; free.20110407
Watson Adventures Scavenger Hunts (Saturday) At 2 p.m., ''Lincoln Conspiracy Scavenger Hunt,'' in Greenwich Village; $24.50. Also at 2 p.m., ''All Hands on Deck Scavenger Hunt'' at the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum; $35.50 includes admission. For reservations and meeting places: (877) 946-4868. Advanced payment required. watsonadventures.com.20110407
Spoken Word
Architecture Talk: 'McKim, Mead & White' (Tuesday) Mosette Broderick, professor of architectural and urban history at New York University and author of ''Triumvirate'' (Knopf, 2010), speaks in this event sponsored by the Victorian Society in America, Metropolitan chapter. At 6 p.m., New York New Church, 114 East 35th Street, Manhattan , metrovsa.org; free.20110407
'Modigliani: A Life' (Friday) A lecture by Meryle Secrest, biographer, on the Italian artist Modigliani and his daughter Jeanne, who became an art historian and involved in the French Resistance; at 6:30 p.m., National Arts Club, 15 Gramercy Park South, at 20th Street, Manhattan, (212) 475-3424; free.20110407
National Poetry Month Readings (Saturday, Tuesday through Thursday) Saturday at 2:15 p.m., ''Jazz and Poetry Day'': the Flushing High School Jazz Band opens for the David Leonhardt Trio, with poetry readings; sponsored by the Flushing Council on Culture and the Arts; Flushing Town Hall, Queens; free. Tuesday at 5:45 p.m.: Sapphire, poet and author of ''Push,'' will read as part of the New York City College of Technology's Literary Arts Festival; 300 Jay Street, Brooklyn; (718) 260-5394, gguide@citytech.cuny.edu; free. Wednesday at 8 p.m.: readings by Elaine Equi and Ron Padgett as part of the Poetry Project at St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village; (212) 674-0910, info@poetryproject.org; free. Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Poets House: Karen Swenson, poet and journalist, explores how the monologues and poetry of Browning inspired Pound, Eliot and Frost; 10 River Terrace, at Murray Street, Lower Manhattan; (212) 431-7920, poetshouse.org. $10; $7 for students and 65 and up; or free for members.20110407
'Sounds of Immigrant New York' (Wednesday) ''Bukharian Jewish Music in Brooklyn'' will be discussed by Evan Rapport, an ethnomusicologist; at 7 p.m. The free lecture series, presented by the Center for Traditional Music and Dance, runs through June 16 at various locations. Center for Jewish History, 15 West 16th Street, Flatiron district , (212) 571-1555, ctmd.org.20110407
Starworks Showcase and Readings (Friday and Thursday) Friday at 7 p.m., Jonathan Safran Foer and Matthea Harvey, guest authors, will participate in the Starlight Children's Foundation Starworks literary outreach program, which teaches creative expression to hospitalized children; co-sponsored by the New York University Creative Writing Program and the Poetry Society of America. On Thursday at 7 p.m., Julie Orringer will read from her novel ''The Invisible Bridge'' (Knopf, 2010). New York University, Lillian Vernon Creative Writers House, 58 West 10th Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 998-8816, cwp.fas.nyu.edu; free.20110407
Walking Tours
Adventure on a Shoestring (Saturday) ''A Salute to Elizabeth Taylor,'' a tour of the Broadway theater district and theaters where Ms. Taylor performed, meeting at the southeast corner of Eighth Avenue and 45th Street. At 1 p.m. and 3 p.m., (212) 265-2663; $10.20110407
Big Onion Walking Tours (Friday through Sunday) Several walks are planned in Upper and Lower Manhattan. Friday at 11 a.m., ''Historic Harlem'' will focus on the people, sites and architecture of the neighborhood, meeting at the northwest corner of 135th Street and Lenox Avenue; $15, or $12 for 63+ and students. Friday and Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Multi-Ethnic Eating Tour,'' a tour of the Lower East Side, Chinatown and Little Italy that includes snacking; meeting on the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets, Lower East Side; reservations requested: info@bigonion.com (888) 606-9255; $20; $17 for 63+ and students.20110407
Ghosts of New York (Saturday) Two ghosts tours on the same night are offered by New York Talks and Walks. The first, ''Peter Stuyvesant and His Ghostly Friends of the East Village,'' starts at 7:30 p.m., meeting in front of St. Mark's Church, northwest corner of 10th Street and Second Avenue. The second, ''Edgar Allen Poe and His Ghostly Neighbors of Greenwich Village,'' meets at 9:30 p.m. at Fire Patrol Station No. 2, 84 West Third Street, one block south of Washington Square Park between Thompson and Sullivan Streets, Greenwich Village; (888) 377-4455. ghostsofny.com; $20 by credit card; $25 in cash for each tour; a special price of $33 with credit card payment for both tours on the same night.20110407
In Depth Walking Tours (Saturday) ''Ayn Rand's Park Avenue'' looks at where Rand lived and worked, meeting on the northeast corner of Vanderbilt Avenue and East 42nd Street, Manhattan. At 11 a.m., (917) 607-9019, indepthwalkingtours.com; $20; $15 for 65+.20110407
Municipal Art Society (Sunday) ''Conforming to the Grid (West Side),'' a tour that explores the influence of the 1811 grid city plan on Manhattan with walks of Greenwich Village and surroundings, meeting at 11 a.m. at the southwest corner of Fifth Avenue and 14th Street. Reservations are needed: (212) 935-3960. mas.org/tours; $15, or $10 for members.20110407
NYC Discovery Tours (Saturday and Sunday) The Civil War will be examined in a walk with stops associated with Abraham Lincoln, Walt Whitman and others; both days at 2 p.m. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331; $18.20110407
Pre-Passover Nosh and Stroll (Sunday) Tours of the old Jewish Lower East Side, with Passover snacks to taste; meeting at the Museum at Eldridge Street, 12 Eldridge Street; 11 a.m. and 2 p.m., (212) 219-0888, Ext. 201, eldridgestreet.org; $15.20110407
'Union Square: Crossroads of New York' (Saturday) A tour focusing on the area's political history, meeting at 2 p.m. by the statue of Lincoln in Union Square Park, near the 16th Street transverse. Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership; (212) 517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org; free.20110407
Recreation
Pediatric Cancer Foundation's Walkathon and Run (Sunday) This year, along with the annual walkathon, there will be the choice of a five-mile or five-kilometer run to benefit pediatric cancer research, treatment and equipment at New York-area hospitals. The run begins at 8 a.m., leaving from Pier 84, West Side Highway and 43rd Street. Online registration through Saturday at pcfwalk.org; $35. On-site registration begins at 7 a.m. at Pier 84; $40. The walkathon leaves from Riverside Park at the West 79th Street rotunda. Online registration at pcfwalk.org; $35 for adults and $15 for children 16 and younger. On-site registration starts at 10:30 a.m. for an 11:30 start time for an additional $5. (914) 777-3127.20110407
Scotland Run and Festival (Sunday) A 10-kilometer run in Central Park, beginning on the West Drive at 67th Street; a cultural festival, with music and dancing will follow the run; at 9 a.m. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club. (212) 860-4455, nyrr.org; Advance registration through Friday: $37, $23 for members and $15 for 18 and younger and 62+. Race-day registration: $40, $25 and $20.20110407
SUNITA REDDY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); HISTORY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (78%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (74%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (74%); ASTROPHYSICS (73%); FILM (72%); LIBRARIES (66%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MILKY WAY GALAXY (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



171 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Prostitutes' Disappearances Were Noticed Only When the First Bodies Were Found

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ; Nate Schweber and Tim Stelloh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
To those who loved them, the four prostitutes were daughters, sisters, friends. To the person or persons who killed them and dumped their bodies in the desolate brush off Ocean Parkway on Long Island, they were disposable.
The four young women discovered off Ocean Parkway near Gilgo Beach -- Megan Waterman, 22; Melissa Barthelemy, 24; Maureen Brainard-Barnes, 25; and Amber Lynn Costello, 27 -- vanished between July 2007 and last September. Each disappearance drew little or no notice. It took the prospect of a serial killer, and the subsequent discovery of four more bodies, for that to change.
The investigation was set off by the disappearance of Shannan Gilbert in May. Ms. Gilbert, 24, of Jersey City, was last seen in a seaside residential community a few miles from the first four bodies, and she is still missing. Ms. Gilbert was a prostitute, but much more: She was an aspiring actress, and the oldest of Mari Gilbert's three daughters.
In an interview, Mari Gilbert said the police failed to protect her daughter and, along with the press and the public, did not take her disappearance seriously until she became part of Long Island's latest serial-killer case. 
''I think they look at them like they're throwaway,'' Mari Gilbert said in a phone interview on Wednesday. ''They don't care.''
Living in the margins of society, often trading sex for money with anonymous clients in anonymous places, struggling with drug addiction and estrangement from their families, prostitutes have long been invisible, vulnerable prey for the wicked and the depraved. Few notice them when they are alive, fewer still when they are missing or found dead.
The quarter-mile stretch where the four women were found is 23 miles from where another prostitute, Tiffany Bresciani, 22, was found wrapped in a blue tarp in the back of a pickup truck in Mineola in 1993, and about 30 miles from where yet another prostitute, Kelly Sue Bunting, 28, was discovered in a trash bin in Melville in 1995. Ms. Bresciani was strangled by Joel Rifkin, an unemployed landscaper who confessed to killing 17 prostitutes. Ms. Bunting was one of the victims of Robert Shulman, a former postal worker convicted of killing and dismembering five prostitutes.
In Poughkeepsie, N.Y., Kendall L. Francois admitted strangling and murdering eight prostitutes from 1996 to 1998, and storing their bodies in the home he shared with his family. In a courtroom in Seattle in 2003, Gary Ridgway, the so-called Green River Killer, who admitted to killing 48 women, seemed, when a prosecutor read his statement of guilt, to be speaking for all serial killers throughout the decades and centuries who have victimized prostitutes.
''I also picked prostitutes as victims because they were easy to pick up without being noticed,'' Mr. Ridgway said in his statement. ''I knew they would not be reported missing right away and might never be reported missing. I picked prostitutes because I thought I could kill as many of them as I wanted without getting caught.''
On Thursday, a Suffolk County police spokeswoman said the search for evidence and additional bodies would expand over the Nassau County line starting Monday. Richard Dormer, the Suffolk police commissioner, told reporters that the search of the brush and grassy dunes on the Suffolk side was about to be completed. The police have no immediate plans to return to the Suffolk area, though Mr. Dormer left open that possibility. He had a message for what he described as women in the escort business: ''They should be very careful with their contacts.''
The oldest profession is also one of the most deadly. The bodies of dozens, perhaps hundreds, of murdered prostitutes -- women, men and transgender people -- have been found in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut since 1990.
''It really feels like there's just an open war against this population,'' said Sienna Baskin, a lawyer and co-director of the Urban Justice Center's Sex Workers Project, which provides legal and social services to New York City sex workers. ''I think it makes all sex workers feel vulnerable to violence. Even if they're working in a safe way, they live in a world where this happens regularly. From sexual assaults to stalking to theft to police brutality, these are really daily experiences that many sex workers face.''
On Dec. 17, six days after the first body was found on Long Island, former and current prostitutes and their supporters gathered at the Metropolitan Community Church of New York on West 36th Street for a candlelight vigil. The names of 70 sex workers killed in 2010 in the United States and around the world were read, as part of the seventh annual International Day to End Violence Against Sex Workers. People took turns reading the names: of Amy Lynn Gillespie of Pittsburgh and Monta K. of Berlin and Alicia Lee of Las Vegas and dozens more.
Audacia Ray, 30, helped organize the vigil. Ms. Ray is a former New York City sex worker who, like the four women found on Long Island, advertised for clients on Craigslist. ''It's always frightening,'' Ms. Ray said of the Long Island case. ''It feels like that could have been me. It could have been one of my friends.''
Before she retired about five years ago, Ms. Ray took precautions. She would call a friend on her cellphone when she arrived at a date with a client. Her friend on the other line already knew the address, and Ms. Ray made it a point to make the call in front of the client. Ms. Ray would tell her friend what time she would call back when the date was over. If she did not call back at the appointed time, the friend would wait 10 minutes and then call her. If Ms. Ray did not answer, the friend was instructed to call the police immediately.
''Sex workers often work in isolation because of the criminalized status of the work, but I don't think sex workers live in isolation,'' said Ms. Ray, now program director for the Red Umbrella Project, which helps sex workers tell their stories publicly. ''There's an assumption that if your life has gotten that bad, you're expendable. That's not true. A lot of people do care. We're just not listened to.''
After her daughter went missing in late 1996, Patricia Barone, 67, tried to get news media outlets in Poughkeepsie to cover the story. Most declined. The body of her daughter, Gina Barone, 29, was discovered nearly two years later, in September 1998, in Mr. Francois' ramshackle house a block from Vassar College.
Patricia Barone is raising her daughter's child, who turns 17 next month. Gina Barone is buried in Poughkeepsie. The priest who baptized her in 1968 is the one who offered her funeral Mass in 1998.
''If one Vassar College girl was missing, we would have had cops all over the place,'' Patricia Barone said. ''Every one of these women is somebody's child, and people don't kind of get that. Your children are your children no matter what they do out there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Suffolk County Police Department searched for remains on Thursday along Ocean Parkway. Eight women's bodies have been found in the area. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A22)
The bodies of, clockwise from top left, Maureen Brainard-Barnes, Melissa Barthelemy, Amber Lynn Costello and Megan Waterman were found on Long Island in December.
Convicted serial killers of prostitutes include Kendall L. Francois, top, in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
Joel Rifkin, above left, on Long Island
and Gary Ridgway, the so-called Green River Killer, in Seattle. The three men admitted killing a total of 73 women. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE FERRIS/POUGHKEEPSIE JOURNAL
MIKE ALBANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 POOL PHOTO BY ELAINE THOMPSON) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); MURDER (89%); WOMEN (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); MISSING PERSONS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



172 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Facing Financial Instability, City Opera Seeks to Plug $5 Million Deficit

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
The New York City Opera is putting off an announcement of next season's plans as it struggles to plug a $5 million deficit and to establish financial stability, the company's new chairman said in an interview on Thursday.
The comments by the chairman, Charles R. Wall, make it clear that the City Opera's financial woes -- once severe enough to raise questions about its survival -- continue, despite a critically acclaimed season. 
''We're working very hard to get this institution on a sound financial footing,'' Mr. Wall said. He added that he was donating $2.5 million to help cover the deficit and seeking contributions. But he declined to say how much more money the company has raised in all.
''We will announce the season when our artistic group is comfortable with whatever it is they want to announce,'' he said. ''They won't do that until we sign off on a balanced budget for fiscal year 2012.''
In practice, that means the slate of operas and performances for 2011-12 will probably not be clear until mid-May, Mr. Wall said, when the board meets a few weeks after the end of City Opera's current season. Already part of the fall is off limits. The opera has ceded time to New York City Ballet, with which it shares the David H. Koch Theater, in exchange for a reduction in payments.
Mr. Wall said the board, as part of a complete financial review, was also examining ways to reduce costs, including possible staff cuts and salary reductions.
Contracts with the chorus and orchestra expire this spring, and although there have been preliminary discussions, formal negotiations have yet to begin, said George Steel, the company's general manager and artistic director.
Mr. Wall said, ''Everything is going to be discussed and is on the table, and everybody is going to have to participate.''
He said ticket sales fell ''considerably short'' of projections for last fall, when City Opera presented Leonard Bernstein's ''A Quiet Place'' and Strauss's ''Intermezzo.'' Expectations were lowered, he said, for the three spring productions: ''L'Elisir d'Amore'' by Donizetti; ''Monodramas,'' one-acts by John Zorn, Morton Feldman and Schoenberg; and ''Seance on a Wet Afternoon'' by Stephen Schwartz. Company officials declined to provide attendance figures.
Mr. Wall suggested that the company could have done a better job of marketing, given the disparity between the high quality of performances and the disappointing audiences. ''It's our job to sell our wonderful company,'' he said. ''If we're not doing it, shame on us. It's a question I ask around here: How can this be?''
Mr. Wall, a former vice chairman of Philip Morris International in Switzerland, was a City Opera board member from 2001 to 2008, and he returned as chairman at the beginning of this year.
City Opera's latest struggles, compounded by the weak economy, which has hurt most cultural institutions, began after the appointment of Gerard Mortier as general manager. Mr. Mortier resigned in 2008, even before officially taking over. The company halted operations except for concerts for the 2008-9 season, when its home, the Koch Theater, underwent renovation, pushing down revenue to $6 million (from $33 million the year before) while fixed costs remained. Last season's budget was about $31 million and had a $4.6 million shortfall.
Revenues this season were about $22 million, Mr. Wall said. ''I'm looking at a balanced budget on the order of that area,'' he added.
Endowment money was used to make up the deficits, pushing the fund down to around $9 million or $10 million. Mr. Wall said he hoped to raise that figure up to about $200 million. ''It's a lot to do,'' he said, ''but it is something that can be done.''
In an interview in February, Mr. Wall also said he hoped to bring the number of board members, now 34, to 60, and to double the annual donation each trustee makes to $100,000. He said on Thursday that he had not yet addressed the donation issue.
Mr. Steel, who succeeded Mr. Mortier, said he was gratified by the ''tremendous artistic success'' of the last two seasons. He said he had proceeded with some planning but declined to give details.
''The parameters for next season will be set by the board when they finish their work,'' said Mr. Steel, who has long said that the right range of productions is 8 to 10. When asked for a ballpark number of operas he hoped to put on in 2011-12, he said, ''Between one and a thousand.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles R. Wall became New York City Opera's latest board chairman in January. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); OPERA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); DANCE COMPANIES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); BALLET (68%); TICKET SALES (66%); THEATER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



173 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Shutdown's Ripples Would Be Wide

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH; Binyamin Appelbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
It's not just an estimated 800,000 federal employees who would feel the financial pinch of a government shutdown.
Among the people anxiously waiting to hear if Congress can reach a budget deal are front desk clerks at the Ahwahnee Hotel in Yosemite National Park, manufacturing executives whose companies supply goods to federal agencies, bank loan officers who make mortgages guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration and Wall Street analysts who depend on a steady flow of government data.
The federal government is, after all, a very big business, and temporarily pulling the plug would disrupt many other businesses.
President Obama has warned that the looming shutdown could stall the already fragile economic recovery by choking off much-needed paychecks to workers and introducing another level of uncertainty in an already uncertain world. 
Economists are divided as to how much the shutdown would rattle the economy. Of course, some of it depends on how long any stoppage lasts. If Congress agrees to a budget quickly, it might be just a few national park visitors who are disappointed over the weekend. But if the hiatus stretches to a week -- or to nearly three weeks as it did in 1995 -- then the ripples could quickly fan out.
When the government shut down for 20 days in late 1995, the nation's economic growth was slowed by as much as a full percentage point in that quarter, according to James F. O'Sullivan, chief economist at MF Global. The effect was temporary, he said, with the economy adding about that much in the following quarter.
Mr. O'Sullivan said that over the three months that included the shutdown, federal spending fell 14.2 percent from the previous quarter, before rebounding 8.6 percent in the following quarter.
David Greenlaw, United States economist at Morgan Stanley, said other factors might have held back growth in late 1995, including a 10-week strike at Boeing. This time around, the economic expansion faces a number of challenges, including turmoil in the Middle East, concerns about supplies coming from Japan after its earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis, and millions of unemployed Americans looking for work.
The federal government is such a large customer that many companies, like Booz Allen or Verizon, could be forced to cut back on workers' hours, though these two companies and many others declined to comment on their plans on Thursday.
At the national parks, many of the hotels and restaurants are operated by private concerns that will most likely suspend some workers if the parks are closed. Without their weekly paychecks, those employees could tighten their belts, causing further fallout for grocery stores or other retailers who may see sales slow.
In Yosemite, for example, Delaware North Companies Parks and Resorts operates four hotels with 972 rooms and 13 restaurants. A company spokeswoman, Lisa Cesaro, said that if the shutdown continued beyond the weekend, all lodging and food operations would close, and workers would be forced to take vacation time or unpaid leave, right as peak season was starting.
Government contractors are worried not only about payments, but also about what to do with inventories they would normally ship to agencies that may be closed. Imagine a parts supplier for the federal government with a scheduled delivery coming up, said Rae Ann S. Johnson, a lawyer and council director for the Manufacturers Alliance/Mapi, a trade group. ''If the government is shut down, there is no one to deliver it to. If they have to store it longer than anticipated, then there are extra costs.''
The shutdown could also make it harder for lower-income families to get mortgage loans because the Federal Housing Administration would suspend its guarantee program. The F.H.A. guaranteed about 21 percent of new mortgage loans in 2010, federal data shows.
Shaun Donovan, the housing secretary, said on Thursday that he feared some lenders would stop making new F.H.A. loans, or prevent closings by reneging on loan approvals. ''This is the worst time that we could introduce that uncertainty into this fragile housing market,'' Mr. Donovan told a Senate subcommittee.
Lenders do not need to obtain guarantees at the time a loan is made. Wells Fargo and Bank of America, by far the biggest F.H.A. lenders, said that they would continue to make the loans and simply wait to obtain guarantees -- at least as long as the shutdown remained fairly brief. But JPMorgan Chase said that it would not make new F.H.A. loans during a shutdown, although it emphasized that loans already approved would not be affected.
Economists as well as Wall Street analysts and investors fret that the spigot of data churned out by the government could stop if the shutdown extends into next week. Reports scheduled for next week include retail sales and inflation data.
A spokesman for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which calculates the unemployment rate, said that during a shutdown, the agency would not collect data, issue reports or respond to public inquiries, adding that the Web site might not be operational and would not be updated.
''It could play a little havoc with the data and the markets,'' said Kathleen Bostjancic, director for macroeconomic analysis at the Conference Board. For now, she said, ''I think the markets are taking it in stride because they believe it's going to be short term and we've been through this before. On the other hand, the markets don't like uncertainty, that's for sure.''
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed down just 2.03 points -- or 0.15 percent -- at 1,333.51 on Thursday. But analysts said that the markets could be rattled if the shutdown dragged on, not so much because of the immediate effects, but because Congress's inability to reach an agreement would send a negative signal to investors looking for signs of confidence.
''There is almost no one in the private sector who can look at the shutdown and call it responsible in any form or fashion,'' said Allen Sinai, a founder of Decision Economics. If a company failed to come up with a budget, he said, ''every executive would be fired by the board. The public and the world is pretty much at the end of its patience.''
He said that the stock market would be at risk, and the dollar could slide further as foreign investors sought havens elsewhere. Others suggested that since the financial markets largely shrugged off recent turmoil in the Middle East and Japan, a government shutdown was unlikely to prompt a sell-off.
''I think it will probably do some knee-jerk damage to the stock market,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight, ''but I think the most likely scenario is, if there is a shutdown, it won't last very long. And the stock market should have bigger things to worry about.''
A far bigger concern, Mr. Gault said, was if a divided Congress would be able to agree on what to do about the debt ceiling, which will most likely be breached this summer if it is not raised.
''The question is, does it damage confidence in the government's ability to make decisions?'' he said. ''Or does it make people worry that maybe, if we get a shutdown now, maybe even if they can settle this one, down the road there could be a much, much worse problem on extending the debt limit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Demonstrators appeared on Thursday outside the Ralph H. Metcalfe Federal Building in Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); RESORTS (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (62%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (61%)

COMPANY: DELAWARE NORTH COS INC (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (54%); BOEING CO (53%); BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON INC (52%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); BAH (NYSE) (52%); VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (60%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



174 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: For Upstate Village, Terror Trial Decision Brings Relief

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
OTISVILLE, N.Y. -- To describe this small Orange County village as a one-stoplight town would be grossly inaccurate. There are no traffic lights here.
That just made it all the more incongruous that the Justice Department was considering Otisville, which has about 1,000 residents, as a possible site for a civilian trial of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed and the other suspects charged in the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
''It would have been great for business, but it would be a disaster for the village,'' said Nick Amendola, who runs the 20-seat Bada Bing 2 pizzeria. ''All the traffic and the people -- forget it. We don't have enough of anything.'' 
On Monday, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. announced that federal prosecutors would hold a military tribunal for Mr. Mohammed and the other suspects, rather than try them in civilian courts in New York.
One of the options, Mr. Holder said, had been to try the suspected terrorists in a federal prison here, about 70 miles northwest of New York City.
The village has a few merchants, including two bars, one grocery store, one gas station, a liquor store and two restaurants -- a pizza place and a Chinese food takeout spot.
Local merchants owe much of their business to the employees of the federal prison and the nearby Otisville Correctional Facility, a state prison. Many correction officers eat at the Bada Bing and drink at the Victory Lane bar.
The Federal Correctional Institution, which currently holds 1,310 inmates, is a sprawling complex of gray cinder-block buildings at the top of a modest hill. It is two miles off the main road, on the aptly named Two Mile Drive, and is surrounded by fences topped with coiled razor wire.
Mr. Holder said he recognized that holding the trial in Manhattan would have created exorbitant security costs, and that Otisville, which he noted was still within the boundaries of the federal court system's Southern District of New York, was seen as a better option.
Bringing the case to Otisville, Mr. Holder said, ''would not have come up with any of the concerns that people had about bringing the case to Manhattan.''
''It would have lowered the costs pretty dramatically,'' he added. ''But even that option was taken off of the table by Congress.''
There had not been official discussions or preparations for using the prison in Otisville for the trial, and there is no official trial room on the premises, a prison spokeswoman, Marti Licon, said this week.
Prison officials were aware of speculation that the prison could have been chosen for the trial, but ''we were not aware of any official considerations,'' she said, adding that the prison was fully capable of holding high-security prisoners.
Paul Rickard, chief of police for Mount Hope, which includes Otisville, said, ''The prison could have handled it, but from the community standpoint, I don't think we'd be able to handle the influx of people, the influx of media, all of it.''
Chief Rickard said that he was aware the village was an option for the trial but that ''we would not have welcomed it.''
His force consists of 5 full-time officers and 20 part-time workers, he said. The department ''closes up shop'' from midnight till 6 a.m., and patrols are left to the State Police, whose closest outpost is in Middletown, about a 10-minute drive away, he said.
''There's no infrastructure here to handle it,'' Chief Rickard said, referring to the trial. ''We have no hotels. You can't buy food here after 10 at night.''
Besides, he added, ''this is the highest profile trial in United States history, and no one wants their town associated with that.''
The village is a patriotic place, as evidenced by the star-spangled drop box in front of Village Hall, for the proper disposal of American flags that are no longer in a proper condition to fly.
By early afternoon on Tuesday, the trial was a topic of discussion among local patrons of the C-N-C tavern on Main Street, which has a hitching post out front -- a leftover from the old days -- and horseshoes out back. There has been a bar here since the 1800s, and even the beer prices seem nostalgic: $1 glasses of Busch on tap, and $2 bottles of Genesee Cream Ale.
''Can you imagine? You'd have traffic backed up to the Thruway,'' said Charlie Bellars, 64, a retired construction worker.
Barry Corcoran, 45, said: ''Take a good look at this town. Does it look like we could handle a lunch crowd?''
Mr. Corcoran said that he was unemployed but that he was able to buy himself a beer because he had just cashed his unemployment check that morning.
''We're talking about a trial that's not going to happen here,'' Mr. Corcoran yelled. ''I need a job. Let's talk about that.''
Albert Mydosh, 60, a gravedigger who had just finished work, piped up from the end of the bar.
''We're not interested in having all those people here,'' he said. ''There's nothing here for them. Where would they stay?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Otisville, N.Y., population 1,000, was considered as a site for a civilian trial of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed and other 9/11 suspects.
 Albert Mydosh, at a tavern in Otisville, said there was little in the village for people who would have showed up for the trial. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RAMIREZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRISONS (90%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); MILITARY COURTS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



175 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1718 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Dance
Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.
Ailey II (Friday through Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday) Spring is in the air, and second companies are on the stage. Among them is this troupe of 12 younger dancers, who will perform two programs of new and repertory work, including premieres by Robert Moses, Kyle Abraham and Donald Byrd. (Through April 17.) Friday, Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m.; Saturday at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 and 7 p.m., Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton , (866) 811-4111, alvinailey.org; $45. (Claudia La Rocco)20110407
Anne Bluethenthal and Dancers (Friday) This well-regarded San Francisco group arrives for just one evening at the 92nd Street Y. It will perform Anne Bleuthenthal's ''Fresh Cut Tears,'' ''Daughters Untold'' and ''Pluto in Capricorn,'' which she links, in press materials, to global economic collapse and recent ''valiant struggles for freedom.'' Also on the program is a solo from the New York choreographer Barbara Mahler. At 8 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue , (800) 838-3006, brownpapertickets.com; $15. (Roslyn Sulcas)20110407 
DanceBrazil (Tuesday through Thursday) This company from Bahia, Brazil, offers a frequently exhilarating fusion of African dance forms, capoeira and contemporary dance, mostly choreographed by its founder and director, Jelon Vieira. The three pieces on this program includes his ''Jornada,'' described in press materials as the company's signature work, as well as ''Batuke'' and an excerpt from ''Memorias.'' Hint to the Joyce: Caipirinhas for intermission cocktails? (Through April 24.) Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. and Thursday at 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $10 to $39. (Sulcas)20110407
Janis Brenner & Dancers (Friday and Saturday) In ''5 Decades II,'' Ms. Brenner presents work ranging from 1929 to 2011. The premiere of ''The Mind-Stuff Variations,'' which features music by the fabulous composer-pianist Jerome Begin, will be seen alongside pieces by Mary Wigman and Murray Louis, two of Ms. Brenner's main influences. At 8 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, danspaceproject.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (La RoccoDanspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village nging from 1929 to 2011. The premiere of ''The Mind-Stuff Variations,'' which features music by the fabulous composer-pianist Jerome Begin, will be seen alongside pieces by Mary Wigman and Murray Louis, two of Ms. Brenner's main influences. At 8 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, danspaceproject.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (La Rocco)20110407
Chunky Move (Friday and Saturday) This Australian troupe returns to New York with ''I Like This,'' created and performed by the company members Byron Perry and Antony Hamilton. Here's your chance to see what younger Aussie dance-makers are up to these days. A hint: think process. Friday at 8 p.m. and Saturday at 3 and 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $18. (La Rocco)20110407
E-Moves (Friday and Saturday) Now in its 12th year, this feisty series focuses on developing choreographic voices. Ronald K. Brown, Nora Chipaumire, Nia Love and Janet Wong are some of the well-known names acting as mentors this year to fledgling choreographers (called E-Merging artists) in the first halves of the programs. Friday has Maria Bauman, Maurice Chestnut, Marianne Kim, Will Bond and Otis Donovan E-Merging; on Saturday, it's the turn of Miguel Anaya, Marguerite Hemmings, Daisuke Omiya and Efeya Sampson. The second halves of the programs feature Brandon (Peace) Albright (Friday) and Johari Mayfield (Saturday) -- artists already associated with E-Moves and who are therefore E-Volving. Don't miss Mr. Albright, one of the rare hip-hop choreographers who create spatially interesting, formal hip-hop works. His ensemble, Illstyle & Peace Productions, is stand-up-and-cheer dazzling. (Through April 16.) At 7.30 p.m., Harlem Stage Gatehouse, 150 Convent Avenue, at West 135th Street, Hamilton Heights , (212) 281-9240, harlemstage.org; $20. (Sulcas)20110407
- Eiko & Koma (Friday and Saturday) Want to spend several hours, or only a few minutes -- it's your choice -- at a dance production, and then return later? ''Naked: A Living Installation'' permits you to behold two imaginative Japanese dancers and choreographers in an exploration of nakedness, desire and the elasticity of time during which, they say, their bodies are moving toward the unknown. And you can watch all this at very close proximity to the performers. Friday at 6 p.m. and Saturday at 3 p.m., Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, Manhattan , (212) 868-4444, bacnyc.org; free, but reservations may be made in advance at smarttix.com. (Jack Anderson)20110407
Ledoh/Salt Farm (Thursday) This San Franciso-based company presents ''COLORMEAMERICA,'' described on the Joyce Web site as ''a Butoh-based multimedia performance.'' But if that strikes fear into your heart, it is also described as ''satire, a spaghetti western.'' That combination sounds so bizarre, it's promising. (Through April 16.) At 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Sulcas)20110407
- Juliette Mapp (Wednesday and Thursday) A quietly eloquent choreographer who has made much of autobiographical material in her past work, Ms. Mapp stays on that track with her new ''The Making of Americans,'' its title drawn from the Gertrude Stein novel. The subject is Ms. Mapp's maternal aunts and uncles, who arrived from Albania to work in the steel mills of Gary, Ind., after the Second World War, living and working together all their lives. It should be a fascinating glimpse of a vanishing world, evoked through Ms. Mapp's subtle physical poetry, music from the Gary-born Michael Jackson and video by John Jesurun. And Ms. Mapp has assembled a dream cast that includes the contemporary dance luminaries Vicky Shick, Levi Gonzalez, Anna Sperber and Kayvon Pourazar. (Through April 16.) At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 924-0077, dancetheaterworkshop.org; $20, or $15 for students and 65+. (Sulcas)20110407
- Paradigm (Thursday) The mature dancers who make up Paradigm never fail to charm, and the charmer in chief is Carmen deLavallade, who will celebrate her recent 80th birthday at these performances with a new work, ''Tango With Ghosts.'' Included on the program are Kate Weare's ''Idyll'' and a new work by Gus Solomons Jr. for Sarita Allen, Michael Blake, Hope Clarke, Robert Lafosse and the inimitable Valda Setterfield. And in a cameo appearance, Kyle Abraham (a few decades short of Paradigm's average age) will attempt to hold his own. (Through April 16.) The gala will follow the 8 p.m. performance. Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, danspaceproject.org; $18; $15 for students and 65+; opening-night gala is $75 to $100. (SulcasDanspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village m, and the charmer in chief is Carmen deLavallade, who will celebrate her recent 80th birthday at these performances with a new work, ''Tango With Ghosts.'' Included on the program are Kate Weare's ''Idyll'' and a new work by Gus Solomons Jr. for Sarita Allen, Michael Blake, Hope Clarke, Robert Lafosse and the inimitable Valda Setterfield. And in a cameo appearance, Kyle Abraham (a few decades short of Paradigm's average age) will attempt to hold his own. (Through April 16.) The gala will follow the 8 p.m. performance. Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, danspaceproject.org; $18; $15 for students and 65+; opening-night gala is $75 to $100. (Sulcas)20110407
- Stephen Petronio Company (Friday through Sunday) New York to Australia and back again: This has been Mr. Petronio's journey with ''Underland,'' a work he made in 2003 for the Sydney Dance Company (with music by Nick Cave and costumes by Tara Subkoff/Imitation of Christ) and has now revamped for his own troupe. Down under meets downtown, hurrah! Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea , (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $10 to $69. (La Rocco)20110407
- John Scott (Friday and Saturday) Homeland Security may have delayed the appearance of Mr. Scott's ''Fall and Recover,'' but, true to its name, the work is now having its American premiere. Working with members of his Irish Modern Dance Theater and torture survivors from several countries, Mr. Scott has recontextualized these harrowing accounts within a nonnarrative framework. At 7:30 p.m., La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village , (866) 811-4111, lamama.org; $25; $20 for students and 65+. (La Rocco)20110407
- Under the Influence (Wednesday) This month's installment in this series at the Museum of Arts and Design has a terrific lineup: works by Sean Curran and Ronald K. Brown and the flamenco dancer Nelida Tirado performing the Taranto, a tango-influenced dance from the 1940s. The author and former New York Times dance critic Jennifer Dunning will conduct a question-and-answer session with the artists afterward. At 7 p.m., Museum of Arts and Design, 2 Columbus Circle , (212) 299-7740, madmuseum.org; $18, or $15 for students. (Sulcas)20110407
- Dance With Damian Woetzel (Monday) The former New York City Ballet principal Damian Woetzel hosts this lively, if intermittent, series of talks at City Center. This one features Virginia Johnson, the artistic director of the Dance Theater of Harlem, which has had an uncertain future ever since debt forced the dancers to disband in 2004. Mr. Woetzel and Ms. Johnson will chat about the past and future of Dance Theater -- for which Ms. Johnson hopes to have reassembled an ensemble in 2013 -- and dancers will perform excerpts from pieces developed in workshops. Sad to report, the event is already sold out, but it might be worth waiting for returns or campaigning for reruns and webcasts. At 6:30 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan , (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Sulcas)20110407

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JOHN SCOTT (Friday and Saturday): Homeland Security may have delayed the appearance of Mr. Scott's ''Fall and Recover,'' but true to its name, the work, above, is now having its American premiere. Working with his Irish Modern Dance Theater and torture survivors from several countries, Mr. Scott has recontextualized these accounts within a nonnarrative framework. At 7:30 p.m., La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, lamama.org
 $25, $20 for students and 65+. (Claudia La Rocco) (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIETA CERVANTES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); DANCE (90%); DANCERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (84%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (64%); THEATER (58%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (83%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



176 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Really About Spending

 BODY:
If the federal government shuts down at midnight on Friday -- which seems likely unless negotiations take a sudden turn toward rationality -- it will not be because of disagreements over spending. It will be because Republicans are refusing to budge on these ideological demands:
No federal financing for Planned Parenthood because it performs abortions. Instead, state administration of federal family planning funds, which means that Republican governors and legislatures will not spend them. 
No local financing for abortion services in the District of Columbia.
No foreign aid to countries that might use the money for abortion or family planning. And no aid to the United Nations Population Fund, which supports family-planning services.
No regulation of greenhouse gases by the Environmental Protection Agency.
No funds for health care reform or the new consumer protection bureau established in the wake of the financial collapse.
Abortion. Environmental protection. Health care. Nothing to do with jobs or the economy; instead, all the hoary greatest hits of the Republican Party, only this time it has the power to wreak national havoc: furloughing 800,000 federal workers, suspending paychecks for soldiers and punishing millions of Americans who will have to wait for tax refunds, Social Security applications, small-business loans, and even most city services in Washington. The damage to a brittle economy will be substantial.
Democrats have already gone much too far in giving in to the House demands for spending cuts. The $33 billion that they have agreed to cut will pull an enormous amount of money from the economy at exactly the wrong time, and will damage dozens of vital programs.
But it turns out that all those excessive cuts they volunteered were worth far less to the Republicans than the policy riders that are the real holdup to a deal. After President Obama appeared on television late Wednesday night to urge the two sides to keep talking, negotiators say, the issue of the spending cuts barely even came up. All the talk was about the abortion demands and the other issues.
Democrats in the White House and the Senate say they will not give in to this policy extortion, and we hope they do not weaken. These issues have no place in a stopgap spending bill a few minutes from midnight.
A measure to prohibit the Environmental Protection Agency from regulating greenhouse gas emissions came up for a Senate vote on Wednesday and failed. If Republicans want to have yet another legislative debate about abortion and family planning, let them try to pass a separate bill containing their restrictions. But that bill would fail, too, and they know it, so they have chosen extortion.
The lack of seriousness in the House is reflected in the taunting bill it passed on Thursday to keep the government open for another week at an absurdly high cost of $12 billion in cuts and the ban on District of Columbia abortion financing. The Senate and the White House said it was a nonstarter. Many of the same House members who earlier had said they would refuse to approve another short-term spending bill voted for this one, clearly hoping they could use its inevitable failure in the Senate to blame the Democrats for the shutdown. What could be more cynical?
The public is not going to be fooled once it sees what the Republicans, pushed by Tea Party members, were really holding out for. There are a few hours left to stop this dangerous game, and for the Republicans to start doing their job, which, if they've forgotten, is to serve the American people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY PLANNING (91%); ABORTION (90%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); CLIMATE CHANGE (74%); GREENHOUSE GASES (74%); EMISSIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (58%); UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



177 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Filings for Jobless Claims Fell by 10,000 Last Week

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Fewer people applied for unemployment benefits last week, a sign that layoffs are dropping and employers may be hiring more workers.
The Labor Department said on Thursday that the number of people seeking benefits dropped 10,000 to 382,000 in the week that ended on Saturday. That was the third drop in four weeks. The four-week average of applications, a less volatile measure, declined to 389,500. 
The average is just 1,000 above a two-year low that was reached three weeks ago.
Applications near 375,000 are consistent with a sustained increase in hiring. They peaked during the recession at 659,000.
The number of people seeking benefits has fallen for several months. The four-week average has dropped by 28,750, or nearly 7 percent, in the last eight weeks. At the same time, businesses are stepping up hiring.
Still, the number of applications could move higher in the coming weeks. Toyota Motor has said that it may temporarily shut down its North American plants this month because of a shortage of parts from Japan, where the earthquake and tsunami have disrupted production. Other auto companies may also suspend production, which could cause temporary layoffs and a spike in applications for unemployment benefits.
In another report, the Federal Reserve said consumers borrowed more money in February to buy new cars but cut back on other purchases on credit.
Borrowing increased by $7.6 billion, or 3.8 percent, in February, the Fed said. It was the fifth consecutive monthly gain.
All of the strength came in the category that includes car loans. That increased 7.7 percent. Borrowing in the category that covers credit cards fell 4.1 percent. That category has risen only once in the more than two years since the 2008 financial crisis peaked.
The gains in total credit pushed borrowing up to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $2.42 trillion in February.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); TSUNAMIS (52%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (56%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (56%); TM (NYSE) (56%); 7203 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



178 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Stuff Piled in the Aisle? It's There to Get You to Spend More

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Americans like stuff.
That's a given. But it turns out that lots and lots of stuff piled onto shelves or stacked in the middle of store aisles can coax a shopper to buy more.
After the recessionary years of shedding inventory and clearing store lanes for a cleaner, appealing look, retailers are reversing course and redesigning their spaces to add clutter.
Dollar General is raising the height of its standard shelves to more than six feet; J. C. Penney is turning its empty walls into jewelry and accessory displays; Old Navy is adding lanes lined with items like water bottles, candy and lunchboxes; and Best Buy is testing wheeling in bigger items, like Segways and bicycles, to suck up the space created by thinner TVs and smaller speakers.
Wal-Mart Stores may provide the marquee example of a failed makeover. Two years ago, it remodeled, trying to hang on to Target shoppers who traded down to Wal-Mart during the recession. 
Out went the pallets of items like juice boxes or sweatshirts stacked in the centers of aisles. Merchandise on ''end caps,'' displays at the ends of aisles, slimmed down. Shelves got shorter, and Wal-Mart whittled the number of items it carried by about 9 percent, so as not to overwhelm shoppers. Customer satisfaction scores soared.
Despite those ratings, Wal-Mart has been encountering one of the longest slides in domestic same-store sales in its history.
''They loved the experience,'' William S. Simon, the chief executive of Wal-Mart's United States division, said at a recent confer-ence. ''They just bought less. And that generally is not a good long-term strategy.''
So after remodeling a large percentage of its stores, Wal-Mart is now re-remodeling them, adding back inventory, plopping stacks of stuff into aisles and stacking shelves with a dizzying array of merchandise.
As it turns out, the messier and more confusing a store looks, the better the deals it projects.
''Historically, the more a store is packed, the more people think of it as value -- just as when you walk into a store and there are fewer things on the floor, you tend to think they're expensive,'' said Paco Underhill, founder and chief executive of Envirosell, who studies shopper behavior.
Retailers are crowding shelves for a couple of strategic reasons.
After years of expansion, many retailers are halting building plans and closing stores as sales and traffic shift to the Web. That means the main way to increase revenue is by selling more stuff at the existing stores.
''All the retailers are stuck with less traffic going to the stores, and leases that are 15 to 20 years long,'' said Fiona Dias, executive vice president of strategy and marketing at GSI Commerce, which provides e-commerce technology for retailers like Toys ''R'' Us. ''What do you do with all the extra space that you're paying for?''
Also, same-store sales are getting stronger, so retailers are adding back merchandise. At Wal-Mart, for instance, inventory at the end of January was 11 percent higher than a year earlier.
Best Buy, which had big stores to begin with, recently was faced with ''bowling alleys' worth of space because the product has all shrunk or gone digital,'' Ms. Dias said, noting the switchover to music sold on MP3s rather than racks and racks of CDs.
J. C. Penney is also trying to maximize its existing spaces.
Old Navy has added ''fast lanes'' where shoppers can pick up Nantucket Nectars, toys and other impulse items. About 100 stores now have the lanes, and about 200 more are being added this year. It is meant to maximize sales per square foot around the checkout area, a spokeswoman, Louise Callagy, said in an e-mail, especially important as many Old Navys have been or will be remodeled into smaller spaces.
''One of the ways to improve the productivity is to get more things out on the floor and to show the product in a better way,'' said Jan Hodges, senior vice president and general merchandise manager of women's accessories at J. C. Penney. The retailer has turned empty back walls into accessory displays, added coordinating jewelry and handbags to tables of clothes, and later this year will switch from flat tables to ones with pegs that can carry loads of hanging socks or underwear.
At Dollar General, the tops of the shelves have been raised to a standard 78 inches. Some were as short as 62 inches.
''Think of the shelf heights as air rights, if you will -- it's easier to raise the shelf height than expand the footprint'' of the store, said a spokeswoman, Mary Winn Gordon.
Raising the shelf height, she said, raised sales per square foot to about $201 in 2010 from $165 in 2007.
Dollar General is now adding what Ms. Gordon called ''speed bumps,'' merchandise in the aisles or at the entrance, or stacks of related items -- like piles of bananas alongside boxes of vanilla wafers.
''We think of them more like virtual speed bumps -- they don't really impede or slow down the shopping in a physical way, but highlight in a consumer-friendly way items that we know our customers are interested in, or items that go together,'' she said. ''You've got just a few seconds to capture your customers' attention when they come into the store.''
Wal-Mart is realizing the same thing. It has dismissed or reassigned the top executives who came up with the cleaner-stores plan, and a new group of executives is adding items -- and a little bit of mess -- back to shelves. Still, Wal-Mart says that it is not totally repeating the past and that the stores are easier to maneuver than they were years ago.)
''We just overreacted,'' said the chief financial officer, Charles M. Holley Jr., in a February call with reporters. ''It didn't allow us to carry the assortment that our customer wanted.''
It is not just about what customers want but how they perceive a store.
''Messiness, or pallets in the middle of an aisle, are also a cue for value,'' said Ben DiSanti, senior vice president of planning and perspectives for TPN, a retail marketing consultant. ''There are a lot of cues that the shopper picks up on in stores.''
A streamlined, simplified store, he added, ''begins to alter that shopper's perception of, 'Does Wal-Mart have the best prices?' ''
''Whether they know it to be more of a discounter or not, if shoppers walk into a less organized environment, I'd bet their first impression is going to be, 'O.K., you're going to find lower prices here,' '' Mr. DiSanti said.
Still, not all price-conscious retailers are crazy for clutter. Family Dollar has been taking items out of the middle of aisles, hanging them or stocking them on shelves instead.
''Most of our customers, regardless of their walk of life, want a pleasant experience,'' said Mtu Pugh, vice president of format and space management.
And Mr. DiSanti suggested that an untidy ambiance could be counterproductive.
''The clutter doesn't help the shopping experience,'' Mr. DiSanti said. ''If I have the choice, I will always choose a cleaner environment.''
Then again, in that pleasant atmosphere, a shopper might just stick to her list and not get distracted by Easter decorations toppling from a shelf, or the two-for-one cereal special she has to maneuver her cart around.
''If you have the temptations there, it will lead to additional sales,'' Mr. DiSanti said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dollar General, left, has made its shelves taller, whileWal-Mart has placed pallets of merchandise in the center of its aisles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES LEYNSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SPENCER TIREY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (77%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (51%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (73%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (58%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (73%); DG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (73%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



179 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 912 words

PERSON: Jean Jennings Bartik 

HEADLINE: Jean Bartik, Software Pioneer, Dies at 86

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Jean Jennings Bartik, one of the first computer programmers and a pioneering forerunner in a technology that came to be known as software, died on March 23 at a nursing home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. She was 86.
The cause was congestive heart disease, her son, Timothy Bartik, said. 
Ms. Bartik was one of the last surviving members of the group of women who programmed the Eniac, or Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer, which is credited as the first all-electronic digital computer.
The Eniac, designed to calculate the firing trajectories for artillery shells, turned out to be a historic demonstration project. It was completed in 1946, too late for use in World War II, but was a milestone in the evolution of modern computing.
When the Eniac was shown off at the University of Pennsylvania in February 1946, it generated headlines in newspapers across the country. But the attention was all on the men and the machine. The women were not even introduced at the event.
''For years, we celebrated the people who built it, not the people who programmed it,'' said David Alan Grier, a technology historian at George Washington University and a senior vice president of the IEEE Computer Society.
The oversight has been somewhat redressed in recent years, and Ms. Bartik, in particular, received professional recognition as a result. Ms. Bartik and Frances Elizabeth Holberton, who died in 2001, were the lead programmers among the small team of women who worked on the Eniac.
In 2009, Ms. Bartik received a Pioneer Award from the IEEE Computer Society, and in 2008 she was named a fellow by the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, Calif.
The Eniac women were wartime recruits with math skills, whose job was initially described as plugging in wires to ''set up the machine.'' But converting the math analysis into a process that made sense to the machine, so that a calculation could flow through the electronic circuitry to completion, proved to be a daunting challenge.
''These women, being the first to enter this new territory, were the first to encounter the whole question of programming,'' said Paul E. Ceruzzi, a computer historian at the Smithsonian Institution. ''And they met the challenge.''
Betty Jean Jennings was born on Dec. 27, 1924, in rural Missouri, the sixth of seven children in a farm family whose parents valued education, said her son. She attended Northwest Missouri State Teachers College, now Northwest Missouri State University, majoring in math.
Her faculty adviser saw an advertisement in a math journal in 1945 that said the Army was recruiting math graduates for a wartime project in Philadelphia. She applied, was accepted and told to come quickly. She got on the next train, according to her son. ''She wanted adventure, and she got it,'' he said.
In Philadelphia, while working on the Eniac, she dropped the use of the first name Betty, which she never liked, her son said. And down the hall at the University of Pennsylvania, she met William Bartik, an engineer working on another Pentagon project. They were married in 1946. (They divorced in 1968.)
After the war, Ms. Bartik joined the Eniac designers, John Presper Eckert and John W. Mauchly, in their effort to develop the Univac, an early commercial computer, which was introduced in 1951. While at the Eckert-Mauchly Computer Corporation -- acquired by Remington Rand in 1950 -- Ms. Bartik worked on hardware and software for both the Binac, a small computer made for Northrop Aircraft, and the general purpose Univac.
Ms. Bartik called working with the Eckert-Mauchly team on the Eniac and later the Univac a ''technical Camelot,'' a tight-knit group advancing the frontiers of computing.
''This was the most exciting time in her life,'' said Kathy Kleiman, a technology policy lawyer who has been making a documentary film about the women who programmed Eniac.
Ms. Bartik left the computer industry in 1951 to raise her three children and returned to it in 1967. After holding a series of jobs in programming, training and technical publishing, she was laid off in 1985 as she was nearing 61 and could not find another job in the industry.
''There's a lot of age discrimination, then and now, and I see it in my research,'' said Mr. Bartik, a labor economist.
For the next 25 years Ms. Bartik was a real estate agent in New Jersey.
Besides her son, of Kalamazoo, Mich., Ms. Bartik is survived by two daughters, Mary Williams of Long Beach, Calif., and Jane Bartik of Poughkeepsie.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 9, 2011; April 8, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on April 8, 2011, about the computer programmer Jean Jennings Bartik erroneously attributed a distinction to her. She was not the last surviving member of the group of women who programmed the Eniac, considered the first all-electronic digital computer. One other member of that group, Frances Bilas Spence, is still alive. The error was pointed out in an e-mail from Ms. Spence's son on March 3.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of the company for which the Binac computer was made. It was Northrop Aircraft, not Northrup.
In addition, the earlier version reversed the captions on the two photos. As a result, the wrong person was identified as Ms. Bartik in each photo. She is on the left in the 1945 photo and on the right in the later photo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jean Bartik, left, one of the last surviving women of the six that programmed the Eniac, in 1945. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES ARMY)
 Jean Bartik, right, and Kay McNulty Mauchly Antonelli, widow of John Mauchly, with part of the computer he helped design. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NORTHWEST MISSOURI STATE UNIVERSITY AND THE JEAN JENNINGS BARTIK COMPUTING MUSEUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); HISTORY (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (86%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); WORLD WAR II (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (72%); MATHEMATICS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (68%); TEACHER EDUCATION (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); IEEE COMPUTER SOCIETY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2012



180 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Ludicrous And Cruel

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Many commentators swooned earlier this week after House Republicans, led by the Budget Committee chairman, Paul Ryan, unveiled their budget proposals. They lavished praise on Mr. Ryan, asserting that his plan set a new standard of fiscal seriousness.
Well, they should have waited until people who know how to read budget numbers had a chance to study the proposal. For the G.O.P. plan turns out not to be serious at all. Instead, it's simultaneously ridiculous and heartless.
How ridiculous is it? Let me count the ways -- or rather a few of the ways, because there are more howlers in the plan than I can cover in one column. 
First, Republicans have once again gone all in for voodoo economics -- the claim, refuted by experience, that tax cuts pay for themselves.
Specifically, the Ryan proposal trumpets the results of an economic projection from the Heritage Foundation, which claims that the plan's tax cuts would set off a gigantic boom. Indeed, the foundation initially predicted that the G.O.P. plan would bring the unemployment rate down to 2.8 percent -- a number we haven't achieved since the Korean War. After widespread jeering, the unemployment projection vanished from the Heritage Foundation's Web site, but voodoo still permeates the rest of the analysis.
In particular, the original voodoo proposition -- the claim that lower taxes mean higher revenue -- is still very much there. The Heritage Foundation projection has large tax cuts actually increasing revenue by almost $600 billion over the next 10 years.
A more sober assessment from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office tells a different story. It finds that a large part of the supposed savings from spending cuts would go, not to reduce the deficit, but to pay for tax cuts. In fact, the budget office finds that over the next decade the plan would lead to bigger deficits and more debt than current law.
And about those spending cuts: leave health care on one side for a moment and focus on the rest of the proposal. It turns out that Mr. Ryan and his colleagues are assuming drastic cuts in nonhealth spending without explaining how that is supposed to happen.
How drastic? According to the budget office, which analyzed the plan using assumptions dictated by House Republicans, the proposal calls for spending on items other than Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid -- but including defense -- to fall from 12 percent of G.D.P. last year to 6 percent of G.D.P. in 2022, and just 3.5 percent of G.D.P. in the long run.
That last number is less than we currently spend on defense alone; it's not much bigger than federal spending when Calvin Coolidge was president, and the United States, among other things, had only a tiny military establishment. How could such a drastic shrinking of government take place without crippling essential public functions? The plan doesn't say.
And then there's the much-ballyhooed proposal to abolish Medicare and replace it with vouchers that can be used to buy private health insurance.
The point here is that privatizing Medicare does nothing, in itself, to limit health-care costs. In fact, it almost surely raises them by adding a layer of middlemen. Yet the House plan assumes that we can cut health-care spending as a percentage of G.D.P. despite an aging population and rising health care costs.
The only way that can happen is if those vouchers are worth much less than the cost of health insurance. In fact, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that by 2030 the value of a voucher would cover only a third of the cost of a private insurance policy equivalent to Medicare as we know it. So the plan would deprive many and probably most seniors of adequate health care.
And that neither should nor will happen. Mr. Ryan and his colleagues can write down whatever numbers they like, but seniors vote. And when they find that their health-care vouchers are grossly inadequate, they'll demand and get bigger vouchers -- wiping out the plan's supposed savings.
In short, this plan isn't remotely serious; on the contrary, it's ludicrous.
And it's also cruel.
In the past, Mr. Ryan has talked a good game about taking care of those in need. But as the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities points out, of the $4 trillion in spending cuts he proposes over the next decade, two-thirds involve cutting programs that mainly serve low-income Americans. And by repealing last year's health reform, without any replacement, the plan would also deprive an estimated 34 million nonelderly Americans of health insurance.
So the pundits who praised this proposal when it was released were punked. The G.O.P. budget plan isn't a good-faith effort to put America's fiscal house in order; it's voodoo economics, with an extra dose of fantasy, and a large helping of mean-spiritedness.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); MEDICARE (74%); MEDICAID (68%); KOREAN WAR (66%)

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (83%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



181 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: European Central Bank, Citing Inflation Concerns, Raises Benchmark Rate

BYLINE: By JACK EWING; Julia Werdigier contributed reporting from London.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Defying critics and breaking ranks with its counterparts in the United States and Britain, the European Central Bank moved on Thursday to slay what some economists say they believe is an imaginary inflation threat, raising the benchmark interest rate in the euro area for the first time since 2008.
The bank's president, Jean-Claude Trichet, argued that the bank needed to attack inflation even though many economists contend that raising borrowing costs could damage weaker economies like that of Portugal, which on Wednesday became the third country in the euro zone to request a bailout. 
With what sometimes sounded like contrarian pride, Mr. Trichet said the rate increase was perfectly in tune with economic growth.
''There is no contradiction, but full complementarity in doing what is our prime mandate, which is to deliver price stability,'' he said after a meeting of the bank's governing council. ''We do what we have to do even when it is difficult, even when it is not necessarily pleasing everyone.''
Asked what he would say to families in Ireland who will now have to make higher payments on their adjustable-rate mortgages, Mr. Trichet said low inflation ''benefits all, including, of course, those who have the most difficulty at the present.''
The increase in the benchmark policy rate to 1.25 percent from 1 percent puts the bank at odds with the Federal Reserve, which continues to stimulate the American economy, as well as the Bank of England, which on Thursday left its benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent despite higher inflation.
The European bank's decision, which Mr. Trichet said was unanimous on the 23-member governing council, drew muted praise from places like Germany, where the rate increase could help prevent the economy from overheating. But the reaction from some quarters was scathing.
The rate increase could have dire consequences for Greece, Ireland and Portugal, where they are already having severe problems borrowing money at reasonable rates, some economists said. Portugal's caretaker government gave in to market pressures and asked for a bailout.
''Tighter monetary policy will only add to the burden of reeling peripheral countries and increase the risk of a much worse debt crisis,'' Marie Diron, a former central bank economist who advises the consulting firm Ernst & Young, said in a note Thursday. ''We hope that this rate hike is not the start of a series of rate increases that would seriously endanger the fragile recovery.''
Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners, a research firm in Stamford, Conn., said the bank was repeating the mistake made by the Fed in the 1970s and 1980s, when it responded to higher oil prices by raising rates. Recessions followed.
''Those recessions were not oil-induced but Fed-induced,'' said Mr. Darda, citing an academic paper by Ben S. Bernanke, now the Fed chairman, that criticized Fed policy at the time.
Though interest rates are still historically low, they are high in relation to Europe's stuttering growth rate, Mr. Darda said.
''The ultimate effect is that they are going to restrain inflation in Germany and France but will cause deflation in the periphery, which will cause austerity programs to fail,'' Mr. Darda said. ''This could very well spread into Spain and Italy.''
Mr. Trichet said that a rate increase would hold down long-term borrowing costs, by giving lenders confidence that inflation would not erode their profits.
The Bank of England faces similar inflation concerns, but left its main policy rate alone after recent economic data painted a mixed picture of the strength of Britain's recovery. It also kept its bond-purchase plan at $:200 billion, or $325 billion.
Not all economists were so critical of the European bank move.
''Fear that this step by the E.C.B. will lead to a worsening of the crisis in the peripheral countries is overdone,'' Michael Heise, chief economist at the German insurer Allianz, said in a note to clients. Even if the E.C.B. raises the rate to 2 percent by the end of the year, real interest rates would still be lower than inflation, he said.
In light of strong German growth, the ''rate decision was without doubt logical,'' Karl-Heinz Boos, executive director of the Association of German Public Sector Banks, said, though he added that the bank should be cautious about raising rates further.
And Mr. Trichet suggested that another rate increase soon was not a foregone conclusion. ''We did not decide today that it was the first of a series of interest rate increases,'' he said. Analysts interpreted his remarks to mean that the bank might wait several months before raising rates again.
The central bank left open the question of how it would deal with banks in Ireland and other countries that have become dependent on central bank funding because they cannot borrow on the open market. Mr. Trichet said the governing council had not yet decided how to deal with the so-called addicted banks.
It is rare for the European bank to move against inflation before the Fed does. More than the Fed, the European bank is required by charter to make fighting inflation its priority.
The bank's resolve was probably strengthened by recent data. Inflation in the euro area rose at an annual rate of 2.6 percent in March, up from 2.2 percent in February and above the bank's target of just under 2 percent.
The European Central Bank last raised its benchmark rate to 4.25 percent from 4 percent in July 2008. The following October, as the financial crisis took hold, the bank reversed course and began a series of cuts that brought the benchmark rate to 1 percent in May 2009.
Rates in Britain also fell to a record low, but the Bank of England is likely to wait for more data at the end of this month before making any decision to lift interest rates, economists said.
Britain's central bank fears that raising interest rates too soon could damage an already weak economic recovery..

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Claude Trichet, head of the European Central Bank, on Thursday in Frankfurt. He said low inflation ''benefits all.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK RUMPENHORST/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); INFLATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (90%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



182 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
DIMON'S PAYDAY JPMorgan Chase paid Jamie Dimon, its chief executive, a total of $20.8 million last year, a substantial increase from $1.3 million he received in 2009, the bank disclosed Thursday in a regulatory filing. Mr. Dimon's paycheck included a $5 million cash bonus for 2010, according the bank's annual proxy statement. He received no cash bonus in 2009 as the financial crisis lingered. 
Mr. Dimon's compensation included $14.2 million in restricted stock and options awarded in 2010. His salary remained unchanged at $1 million.
EXPEDIA'S SPLIT Expedia, the online travel company, said Thursday that it would split into two companies, with its TripAdvisor business becoming a separate business.
The company said it would either spin off TripAdvisor to shareholders or reclassify Expedia's stock. A spinoff, if approved, is expected to be completed in the third quarter.
The announcement comes a week after Expedia resolved a dispute with American Airlines that had kept the airline's fares and schedules off Expedia's Web sites.
BLOCKBUSTER SALE A federal bankruptcy judge on Thursday approved Dish Network's $320 million purchase of Blockbuster, paving the way for the troubled retailer to exit Chapter 11 protection.
The approval by Judge Burton R. Lifland of the Federal District Court of the Southern District of New York came after an auction that stretched into the early hours of Wednesday morning. Dish prevailed after a lengthy battle with a number of other suitors, including Carl C. Icahn, who owned both shares and bonds in Blockbuster; a group of hedge funds who had lent money to the company; SK Telecom of South Korea; and a group of liquidators.
MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
PNC DIVIDEND The PNC Financial Services Group announced Thursday that it had raised its quarterly dividend to 35 cents a share from 10 cents, a fresh sign that banks were looking to put the financial crisis behind them.
The Pittsburgh-based bank also said it planned to spend as much as $500 million this year buying back stock. Like many financial institutions during the financial crisis, PNC reduced its dividend to conserve capital, cutting its quarterly payout in early 2009 by nearly 85 percent, to 10 cents.
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); DIVIDENDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AIRLINES (72%); JUDGES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); STOCK OPTIONS (70%); RETAILERS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); TRAVEL AGENTS (55%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); EXPEDIA INC (87%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); DISH NETWORK CORP (55%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (53%); SK TELECOM CO LTD (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); EXPE (NASDAQ) (87%); DISH (NASDAQ) (55%); PNC (NYSE) (53%); SKMD (LSE) (53%); SKM (NYSE) (53%); 017670 (KSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (87%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (87%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



183 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Disney, Lured by China's Potential, Plans Lavish Park in Shanghai

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZAand BROOKS BARNES; David Barboza reported from Shanghai and Brooks Barnes from Los Angeles.

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- The Walt Disney Company placed a huge bet on China's shifting approach to Westernized entertainment on Friday as it broke ground here on a $4.4 billion theme park and resort -- even if it is one without classic American features like a Main Street.
Disney hopes the Shanghai Disney Resort will be as transformative for the company as the establishment of Walt Disney World in Orlando, Fla., was in the 1970s. It wants to create an engine that will drive demand among China's 1.3 billion residents for other products, like Pixar films and princess dolls.
Like many global companies, Disney is putting its faith in the rise of the Chinese consumer, and at the same time it is counting on Shanghai's specific ambitions to become a world-class city. 
There will be obstacles. Disney's first foray into China -- its theme park in Hong Kong -- got off to a slow start after opening in 2005. It may be a small world, but cultural miscues, including a failure to understand how guests would use the park on holidays like Chinese New Year, resulted in angry customers and damaging media coverage.
The Disney brand is also not as deeply ingrained in China as in other parts of the world. China is the only major country that does not have a Disney Channel, the company's typical way of building its brand and stoking demand for its experiences and products. Even the concept of brand is a tough sell in China, where cheap knockoffs proliferate overnight.
The Shanghai resort's first phase -- one of the largest foreign investments in China ever -- will include a 225-acre Magic Kingdom-style park with a castle surrounded by themed areas. The park component alone will cost $3.7 billion. There will also be two hotels, a lake and a shopping district, bringing the total size of the first phase to about 963 acres. Disney hopes to have the complex open by the end of 2015, an ambitious time line.
This resort has long been expected, but until now plans have been largely secret. They call for its eventually stretching across 1,730 acres in the Pudong district southeast of downtown. The Chinese media have estimated that the full resort, including upgrades to transportation infrastructure in the area, could cost about $15 billion.
A resort of this scale would have a capacity like that of Disney World, which attracts about 45 million visitors a year. In acres, the Chinese resort will be vastly larger than Hong Kong Disneyland.
Notably, Disney did not identify which of its classic rides -- Space Mountain, It's a Small World, Pirates of the Caribbean -- it will bring to the Chinese mainland. One reason may be those knockoffs: When Disney unveiled detailed plans for Hong Kong Disneyland, rival parks in Asia quickly installed cheaper rides with striking similarities.
Disney is also walking a careful line with the Chinese government, which approved the park, after two decades of off-again, on-again talks, on the condition that it would be sharply different from the original Disneyland, which has become a symbol of American culture. Disney agreed to heavily incorporate Chinese culture; dressing Mickey Mouse in a kung fu robe would not do.
''Authentically Disney but distinctly Chinese'' is how Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, described the resort in an interview. ''There will certainly be familiar Disney elements, but it will also be quite different from the moment that you walk through the gates,'' he said.
Shanghai's Disneyland, for instance, will not feature a Main Street-theme entrance, a staple of every other Disney resort. (The Main Street areas are designed to reflect Walt Disney's idyllic childhood in a Missouri town at the turn of the 20th century.) Instead, guests will enter through a lush 11-acre area featuring water and trees, where they will be greeted by costumed characters, Mr. Iger said. The castle will be Disney's biggest.
Disney will shoulder about 43 percent of the initial cost, and its partner, Shanghai Shendi Group, a consortium of state-owned companies, will cover the balance. That split mirrors the resort's ownership structure.
But Disney will have operational control, holding a 70 percent stake in a management company created with Shendi to run the resort.
Other American entertainment companies, notably Universal Studios, are racing to tap into China's consumer economy. Disney got there first partly because it finally found a receptive partner in Shanghai.
The city has 20 million residents, China's biggest stock exchange and most luxurious shopping malls, and two major airports. An estimated 330 million people live within a three-hour trip. The city does have one notable drawback when it comes to the theme park business: it's chilly in the winter.
Other Chinese cities are also building amusement parks (albeit less ambitious ones) at a breakneck pace. ''It's an industry that is exploding because of the entertainment demands of a growing middle class,'' said Dina Benadon, chief executive of Super 78, a Los Angeles creator of rides and experiences that has been hired by multiple Chinese developers.
Disney's arrival in Shanghai has been contentious. Residents in the area where the park is being built, opposite the city on the other side of the Huangpu River, have complained about poor treatment by relocation companies. Relocation in China is a huge problem because land prices are soaring with housing prices, and the compensation given to residents often is not enough. Many residents are ultimately forced off the land.
Some local officials have also been pressing for the government to negotiate more favorable terms with Disney, pointing to the company's park in Hong Kong, which opened to underwhelming results. Hong Kong Disneyland initially suffered from a range of problems.
Disney is now in the middle of a 14-acre expansion there that will open in 2014, and the park has perked up substantially. Attendance in 2010 hit new highs, and the resort was able to pare its annual operating loss by 45 percent, to about $92 million. Disney executives emphasized that its parks -- including the original in Anaheim -- have traditionally taken time to work out the kinks and sought to position Hong Kong as a learning experience.
One important lesson involved food. Disney expected visitors in Hong Kong to spend an average of 20 minutes eating in restaurants, which is how they behave at Disney World and Disneyland Paris. But Hong Kong visitors stayed an average of 40 minutes, creating backups. Seating has since been added, but Shanghai will have cavernous restaurants from the beginning.
''We have a special opportunity to build a resort that reflects everything we have learned from our various parks around the world,'' Mr. Iger said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mickey and Minnie trying to sway pedestrians in an ad for Disney in Shanghai. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B1)
 A rendering of the Shanghai Disney Resort. The castle will be Disney's biggest among its resorts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DISNEY) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (95%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (58%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (57%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (95%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (95%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (97%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) EAST CHINA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



184 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: House Votes to Bar E.P.A. From Regulating Emissions

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House voted 255 to 172 on Thursday to halt the Obama administration's program to regulate industrial air emissions linked to climate change, delivering a rebuke to a central tenet of the president's energy and environmental policy.
Nineteen Democrats joined in approving a bill that, were it to become law, would bar the Environmental Protection Agency from acting to limit emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases that the agency has declared a threat to human health and the environment. 
The measure would also nullify a 2007 Supreme Court ruling that gave the agency the authority to issue regulations to curb those emissions.
The bill stands little chance of becoming law because a similar measure voted on in the Senate on Wednesday came up 10 votes short of the 60 votes needed to avert a filibuster. President Obamathis week threatened to veto any measure that would hinder the administration's efforts to restrict emissions that scientists say are warming the atmosphere and leading to potentially devastating changes in the global climate.
Representative Fred Upton, Republican of Michigan and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, called the vote a victory for American families and jobs as well as a message to the White House that its regulatory agenda was unpopular with many voters.
''Our thoughtful, bipartisan solution reins in an E.P.A. gone wild whose bureaucrats are oblivious to the nation's economic woes and soaring unemployment,'' said Mr. Upton, who co-sponsored the bill with Representative Edward Whitfield, Republican of Kentucky.
On Wednesday, the Senate defeated four amendments that would have permanently or temporarily prevented the environmental agency from policing greenhouse gas emissions, including one measure that was virtually identical to the House bill. That amendment, sponsored by Senators Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, both Republicans, drew four Democratic votes but remained well short of a filibuster-proof majority.
The votes leave Congress deadlocked for now on an issue that has stirred heated scientific, economic and political debate for years.
Republican leaders are pushing to attach similar anti-E.P.A. measures to the current-year budget bill that is now being negotiated. If that fails, they will most likely try again on future spending bills.
Thursday's vote was in sharp contrast to action two years ago, when a Democratic-controlled House passed a comprehensive climate change and energy bill that would have created a nationwide trading system to rein in carbon dioxide emissions. That legislation died last year in the Senate.
The debate in the House has unfolded along familiar lines this week, with well-rehearsed arguments about the science of global warming and the effects of new environmental regulations on domestic energy prices and jobs.
Republicans said they were trying to stay the heavy hand of officials at the E.P.A. who were imposing costly ''job killing'' regulations on business. Democrats argued that the Clean Air Act's limits on air pollutants save tens of thousands of lives and prevent hundreds of thousands of illnesses every year, and that extending those rules to greenhouse gases would slow dangerous climate change.
Mr. Upton said that his bill would allow the E.P.A. to continue to regulate most air pollutants, but that the Clean Air Act never envisioned limits on carbon dioxide, methane or other greenhouse gases produced by thousands of sources around the country.
Representative Ted Poe, Republican of Texas, took the argument further. ''E.P.A. is on a mission to destroy American industry,'' he said on Wednesday in defending the bill. ''When regulators, especially regulators at the E.P.A., go to work, they get in a big room and sit around a conference table drinking their lattes and say, 'Who can we regulate today?' because that's what regulators do. Regulators regulate, all on the so-called premise of protecting us from ourselves.''
Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, was a co-author of the 2009 climate bill and the most outspoken opponent of the Upton-Whitfield measure. He called the bill ''a divisive, partisan measure that takes us in exactly the wrong direction.''
He said the bill had no chance of becoming law and was merely a time-consuming distraction from the urgent task of reducing fossil fuel use and developing clean-burning alternatives. ''Americans want clean air to breathe and sensible limits on carbon pollution,'' Mr. Waxman said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); VETO (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); BUDGETS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); ED WHITFIELD (58%); FRED UPTON (58%); JIM INHOFE (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



185 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Policy Takes Center Stage as Shutdown Nears

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Helene Cooper, Michael D. Shear and Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Another day of intense negotiations between the two parties failed to yield a budget deal on Thursday, leaving the federal government hours from a shutdown.
After the third round of White House talks in 24 hours with Speaker John A. Boehner and Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, President Obama said that they had made progress and that he hoped a compromise could be reached early Friday.
''I'm not yet prepared to express wild optimism, but I think we are further along today than yesterday,'' Mr. Obama said during a late-night appearance in the White House briefing room.
The two sides appeared to be only a few billion dollars apart on the level of spending to be approved for the balance of this year, a relatively small gap in a $3.5 trillion budget. Negotiations appeared to be hung up mostly over Republican demands to tighten restrictions on financing for abortions and to limit environmental regulations, and by Mr. Boehner's desire to squeeze every dollar in cuts out of the Democrats that he could. 
Mr. Boehner and Mr. Reid issued their own joint statement after the meeting on Thursday night, saying that they and their advisers would ''continue to work through the night to attempt to resolve our remaining differences.'' Negotiators went to work in the Capitol, though top aides expressed pessimism about a quick conclusion.
After the meeting, Mr. Obama canceled a planned trip to Indiana on Friday to participate in the final push to get an agreement.
Throughout the day, members of both parties played a game of chicken, seeking to force the other to give in as the deadline of midnight Friday approached. Mr. Boehner in particular faced a tricky calculation about how much he could compromise without losing support not just from his large contingent of Tea Party-inspired fiscal conservatives, but also from social conservatives who were eager for a victory on abortion and other issues.
As Mr. Reid returned from the White House and briefly took the Senate floor, he said that the issues dividing the Senate and House were ''extremely narrow,'' but that it was far from certain they could be worked out in time.
''I am not really confident, but I am very, very hopeful,'' he said.
Given the uncertainty and the short time remaining, federal agencies prepared to furlough employees and cut off most services. Workers, contractors and consumers scrambled to understand how a shutdown would affect them, and Democrats warned of harm to the economy. The two parties also maneuvered to assign blame to each other in the event that no deal could be reached, and neither side was certain that it could predict the political repercussions of a shutdown.
The policy disputes involved a handful of provisions. One would greatly limit financing for Planned Parenthood and other family-planning providers, in the United States and overseas, and prevent the District of Columbia from using its tax dollars to help poor women pay for abortions.
Also at issue were measures that would restrict the regulatory powers of the Environmental Protection Agency, a favorite target of Republicans since they took over the House, by preventing the agency from enforcing significant portions of the Clean Air Act and regulating carbon emissions.
The parties continued to spar over spending levels as well. According to Congressional officials, Mr. Boehner had proposed $39 billion in cuts to the current year's budget on Wednesday after his bid for $40 billion was rejected. Democrats took the new offer under review.
Top budget staff, after working through the night, returned Thursday morning with a proposed $34.5 billion in cuts, with $3 billion of that to come from the Pentagon.
Democrats said Mr. Boehner insisted that any deal also include some of so-called policy riders, which they argued injected conservative ideology into what should be a numbers battle.
''This is no longer about the budget deficit,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat. ''It's about bumper stickers.''
Mr. Boehner rejected assertions by the top Democrats that the policy divide was all that was holding up a deal.
''There are a number of issues that are on the table, and any attempt to try to narrow this down to one or two just would not be accurate,'' said Mr. Boehner.
He and others noted that attaching policy instructions to spending bills was a Congressional tradition embraced by both parties.
Despite Mr. Obama's threat to veto the measure, the House passed a Republican plan that would keep federal agencies open another week, cut $12 billion in spending and provide the Pentagon with money through Sept. 30. Republicans hoped the legislation, which passed 247 to 181, would show that they had made a serious effort to avert a shutdown and leave Senate Democrats and the administration facing criticism for cutting off money to members of the military serving overseas.
''If you vote against this bill, you are voting against the troops who are engaged in three wars,'' said Representative Harold Rogers, the Kentucky Republican who chairs the Appropriations Committee. Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the No. 3 House Republican, said the veto threat was ''shameful.''
Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, dismissed the stopgap bill and said a bipartisan deal on funding the government for the rest of this fiscal year remained in reach.
''We have been negotiating in good faith, and we have closed the gap,'' Mr. Carney said. ''The people expect us to get the deal done.''
With the prospect that much of the government would cease to operate after midnight on Friday, preparations for a shutdown began in earnest.
Federal agencies and Congressional offices began telling workers who would be considered essential -- and should come to work -- and who should stay home. Lawmakers and top aides were briefed on the finer points of a shutdown, some shaking their heads in dismay as they left the meetings.
Tensions escalated in the Senate and House chambers. House members hooted at party leaders on the floor as they tried to make the case for where their opponents had gone wrong.
Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 Democrat, objected to the one-week Republican financing bill and noted that Democrats had negotiated with former President George W. Bush rather than close the government when they split over spending on the Iraq war.
But Representative Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican and the majority leader, said Democrats were to blame for the crisis because they failed last year to pass a budget or the annual spending bills.
''We don't accept the status quo,'' said Mr. Cantor, who announced that the House -- which had been scheduled to adjourn for the weekend on Thursday -- would stay in session. ''We don't want to bankrupt this nation.''
In the Senate, Democrats indicated they did not intend to bring the House-passed budget extension to a vote, drawing outrage from Republicans.
''Funding our troops is not a distraction,'' said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas. ''It's a responsibility.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Visitors outside the Senate chamber on Thursday. Tensions ran high inside, and both parties blamed the other for the impasse.
 Majority Leader Harry Reid with Senator Richard J. Durbin, who said the budget fight had become ''about bumper stickers.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); ABORTION (72%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (72%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



186 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: The Ryan Journey

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
For decades, academics and think tankers have been proposing plans to avert a fiscal catastrophe. The ensuing debates were always sedate, high-minded affairs. Now Republican political leaders have come up with a bold proposal of their own and the atmosphere is totally different. Liberals are on the warpath. Republicans are aroused. This is great. It's democracy -- how change begins.
The best thing about the long-term budget proposal from Paul Ryan, the Republican chairman of the House Budget Committee, is that it forces Americans to confront the implications of their choices. If voters want taxes that amount to roughly 18 percent of G.D.P., then they are going to have to accept a government that looks roughly like what Ryan is describing. 
The Democrats are on defense because they are unwilling to ask voters to confront the implications of their choices. Democrats seem to believe that most Americans want to preserve the 20th-century welfare state programs. But they are unwilling to ask voters to pay for them, and they are unwilling to describe the tax increases that would be required to cover their exploding future costs.
Raising taxes on the rich will not do it. There aren't enough rich people to generate the tens of trillions of dollars required to pay for Medicare, let alone all the other programs. Democrats, thus, face a fundamental choice. They can either reverse President Obama's no-new-middle-class-taxes pledge, or they can learn to live with Paul Ryan's version of government.
Until they find a way to pay for the programs they support, they will not be serious players in this game. They will have no credible plans and will be in an angry but permanent retreat.
Because he had the courage to take the initiative, Paul Ryan's budget plan will be the starting point for future discussions, at least as long as Republicans control at least one house of Congress. But it should be acknowledged that the Ryan plan has several grave weaknesses.
As presently configured, it is unacceptable to moderate voters and stands no chance of passage. Substantively, it does not address the structural problems plaguing the American economy: wage stagnation, inequality, declining growth rates. It doesn't have an answer to rising health care costs. Nor does it leave room for future policy creativity; there's no money to allow future generations to rise to unforeseen challenges. So, while acknowledging that Ryan has done the nation a great service by providing a starting point, we should expect his budget to evolve as the debate goes forward.
First, though Ryan is absolutely right to call for a fundamental reform of the tax code, we should probably aim to generate tax revenues equal to 20 percent of G.D.P., not the 18 percent he proposes. This would allow us to preserve some of the discretionary spending programs that Ryan cuts.
For example, Ryan would cut Pell grants back to their 2008 levels. This is not the horrendous monstrosity some liberals are screaming about. But the economic challenge from China and India demands that we spend more on Pell grants, scientific research, early childhood education and other investments in human capital than Ryan proposes.
Second, we can't let the oldsters get off scot-free. As my colleague David Leonhardt reported in The Times, two 56-years-olds with average earnings will pay about $140,000 in dedicated Medicare taxes over their lifetimes. They will receive about $430,000 in benefits. This is an immoral imposition on future generations. The Ryan budget wouldn't touch this generation, but a bipartisan budget deal should ask middle-class and affluent boomers to make a sacrifice for their country. Slow the growth in health care benefits now and dedicate that money to paying down the debt and investing in the young.
Third, we still need a calm discussion about controlling health care costs. Just about every expert agrees with the following proposition: We can't afford to have Medicare pay for every new procedure that medical technologists devise. The president's health reform plan relies on a centralized board of technocrats to restrict choices. The Ryan plan relies on a premium support model that would allow individuals to exercise greater control over what sorts of procedures they would not be covered for. As the economist Tyler Cowen writes on his Marginal Revolution blog, we probably need a mixed system that takes advantage of both the technocratic and individual rationing models.
Ryan has moved us off Unreality Island. He is forcing Americans to confront the implications of their choices. With a few straightforward changes, his budget could be transformed into a politically plausible center-right package that would produce a fiscally sustainable welfare state while addressing the country's structural economic problems. I suspect the process Ryan has started will take us back toward the moderate framework the Simpson-Bowles deficit commission proposed a year ago.
Great journeys begin with one bold step.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); MEDICARE (74%); TAX REFORM (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



187 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Doctors Who Work Long Hours, and Those Who Don't

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''More Physicians Say No to Endless Workdays'' (''Doctors Inc.'' series, front page, April 2): 
I am a practicing emergency physician in Rochester, a mother and the president of nearly 30,000 hard-working emergency physicians nationwide. We care for nearly 124 million of the nation's sickest patients each year.
We deal with every kind of complex disease and often must make rapid medical decisions without having much information, including a patient's medical history. Emergency physicians are prepared to treat any patient and respond to any medical emergency at any time.
Many younger physicians have an interest in reducing hours. Primary-care physicians increasingly refer their patients' calls to ''help lines,'' and when the patient is sick, refer them to the E.R., where in the past they made house calls.
Medical students are often attracted to emergency medicine because our work is exciting and diverse. But the vast majority of our hours are evenings, nights, weekends and holidays -- hours many other specialists rarely work.
Emergency physicians are some of the hardest working dedicated specialists who mobilize resources to diagnose and treat every kind of medical emergency, often in difficult circumstances.
SANDRA SCHNEIDER President, American College of Emergency Physicians Rochester, April 6, 2011
To the Editor:
For a variety of reasons, the culture of the tireless physician working long hours is changing. In 1993, I left a lucrative Beverly Hills-West Los Angeles private practice to join a health maintenance organization in the Northwest.
I have never regretted my decision. It allowed me to spend the time with my family that I never had working in private practice. I made less money, but the tradeoff was worth it.
Since then, much has changed in medicine, especially the economics. Some physicians are working for large groups and hospitals not just for limiting the number of hours worked but also for economic reasons. Often hospitals are paid more by Medicare and insurance companies than a physician would be paid in the office for the exact same service.
For some physicians it can be easier to make a living as a hospital employee rather than running their own private practice.
STEVEN SHORT Mercer Island, Wash., April 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INSURANCE (50%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COLLEGE OF EMERGENCY PHYSICIANS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



188 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Other Retailers Find Ex-Blockbuster Stores Just Right

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
More than 6,000 Blockbuster locations have closed in the last few years, leaving dark stores at many a shopping center and intersection.
Even though the retail real estate market remains gloomy, some entrepreneurs with growing retail businesses are snapping them up. In one case, the expanding business was a pawn shop.
''They have great real estate, they're in great locations, the size is just what we need, about 6,000 square feet. It works out just perfect,'' said John D. Thedford, who has been filling former Blockbusters with his pawn shop, La Familia Pawn and Jewelry. 
He has opened La Familias at five former Blockbuster locations in Florida and Puerto Rico, and is about to close on a sixth. And he is expecting even better options soon. Bankrupt Blockbuster is down to 2,400 stores, from a peak of more than 9,000 in 2004. And it agreed on Wednesday to sell its assets to Dish Network for $320 million, leaving the future of the remaining stores in doubt.
''So many of them started popping up as we started doing our site selection work,'' said Mr. Thedford, chief executive and co-founder of La Familia. ''It's just a lot of availability.''
While a video store and a pawn shop might not seem to have much in common, Mr. Thedford says that is a misconception.
Blockbusters are usually on high-traffic intersections or in neighborhood shopping centers near a drugstore or grocery store, since people like to rent movies as they are completing other errands.
So, too people like to pawn items after picking up milk or aspirin.
''Customers generally go to the grocery store a couple of times a week, so we're in a convenient location for our repeat customers,'' Mr. Thedford said. The Blockbuster spaces are ''generally very well positioned,'' he said, ''and there's often very good comparables around -- auto parts stores, furniture stores and things that are healthy in driving our business, because our customers use those services.''
La Familia's business model is to make loans, almost entirely to people without bank accounts, using a customer's ring or television or iPod as collateral. The borrowers are given 60 days to pay back the loan, and La Familia charges a 20 percent interest rate per month. (So for a $100 loan, the borrower would need to pay back $140 after 60 days.)
If the customer does not pay back the loan plus interest after 60 days, or pay additional fees, the collateral item is put up for sale. About 80 percent of the customers pay off the loans, and also buy other items while they are in the store, Mr. Thedford said.
The most common reasons for taking out the loans are ''for electricity, a shortfall on rent, an unexpected medical bill,'' he said. ''It is cheaper than bouncing a check, and than a payday advance.''
Mr. Thedford says La Familia focuses on the Hispanic community, and since many Blockbuster locations in Puerto Rico and Florida overlap with Hispanic neighborhoods, it is a good match.
The La Familia stores are clean and bright, with employees dressed in suits and the merchandise displayed neatly in glass-topped counters.
Just like a Blockbuster, the colors are blue and yellow, and the block lettering on the stores' exterior looks as if it was lifted directly from a Blockbuster sign.
Mr. Thedford said that was coincidental: ''I paid a marketing agency to come up with it,'' he said.
More stores will come on the market soon. Blockbuster has said it will close 700 stores by the end of this month. Dish Network has not said what its plans are for the remaining 1,700 stores. Some analysts expect it to liquidate all Blockbuster stores and focus on its streaming-video business, but others think it will continue to operate at least some stores.
That means a lot of supply in a weak retail real estate market.
With lackluster mall traffic, lots of empty spaces from earlier bankruptcies (Circuit City and Linens 'n Things, in particular) and years of sliding retail sales in some markets, leasing activity in 2009 was 70 percent below where it had been in 2006 and 2007, according to ChainLinks, a retail real estate advisory firm.
That improved in 2010, but ''over the last year and a half the only people who were growing were discounters and off-price retailers,'' said Garrick Brown, director of research for ChainLinks.
In the first quarter of 2011, the mall vacancy rate was at its highest level in a decade, at 9.1 percent, according to real estate research firm Reis. And the neighborhood shopping centers and strip malls where Blockbusters tend to be located had an 10.9 percent vacancy rate.
Still, ChainLinks expects some expansion. It tracks annual growth plans for major retailers and restaurants, and the amount of space retailers say they will add this year has risen 40 percent from this time last year. That is largely because holiday spending was strong enough that ''a lot of the publicly traded retailers suddenly felt a lot more pressure to up their growth plans for the year,'' Mr. Brown said.
Unlike a giant store that only a handful of retailers could fill, the small Blockbuster spaces are attracting a fair amount of interest.
''There's such a longer list of tenants that can take these spaces,'' said Michael P. Glimcher, chairman and chief executive of Glimcher Realty Trust, which does not own any property with closed Blockbuster stores. ''Restaurants can take them, you can cut them into two and have a lot of small usage, you can have a cellphone guy in there.''
Mr. Thedford said he was pleased with the Blockbuster locations. His newest stores in former Blockbuster sites are both on track to have sales of $1 million this year.
''I think there's going to be a lot more Blockbusters available, probably more than the market can absorb,'' he said. ''We've got better real estate alternatives than I've ever had.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A La Familia Pawn and Jewelry store that opened at a former Blockbuster site in Orlando, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); DIVESTITURES (77%); FURNITURE STORES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE PARTS STORES (73%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: DISH NETWORK CORP (58%)

TICKER: DISH (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



189 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: After Years Of Cost Cuts, Texas Tries To Find More

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
AUSTIN, Tex. -- It is hard to overstate the budget-cutting furor that has gripped lawmakers in this capital, where the Republicans who control the Legislature and all statewide offices believe voters sent them an ironclad mandate last year to shrink the size of government.
But the Texas government was already a relatively lean operation after years of conservative fiscal policies. So when the Texas House passed its budget bill last weekend, the depth of the cutbacks necessary for the Republican majority to stick to its promise of no new taxes became clearer. It was not a pretty picture.
The bill would slash $23 billion from the current level of state and federal spending over the next two-year budget cycle -- a 12.3 percent reduction that does not take into account rising costs to meet the needs of Texas's growing population.
In a party-line vote, the House slaughtered dozens of sacred cows. The budget bill makes huge cuts to public education, nursing homes and health care for the poor. It slashes financing for highways, prisons and state parks. It eliminates full-day preschool, cuts teacher incentive pay and reduces scholarships for college students by two-thirds. 
''You are cutting to the bone in the state of Texas,'' said State Representative Sylvester Turner, a Houston Democrat. ''The Republican game is: 'We want smaller government, and we will do whatever it takes by whatever means necessary, regardless of the cost.' ''
On Wednesday, conservatives and Tea Party supporters held a rally on the steps of the Capitol calling on the Legislature to cut even deeper into some programs, while thousands of state workers marched to protest the House spending plan.
What galls state employees and many liberals in the state is the refusal by Gov. Rick Perry and his House allies to buffer some of the pain by tapping into the more than $6 billion left in an emergency fund fed by taxes on oil production. (Last month, the House approved using $3 billion from the fund to close a deficit in the current two-year budget.)
But Republican leaders in the House say that the state has to live with its reduced revenues. Raising taxes would hurt the economy, they say, and dipping into the Rainy Day Fund is unwise, given the prospect of cutbacks in federal aid.
''This is the hand we were dealt,'' said State Representative Larry Taylor of the Houston area, the chairman of the Republican Caucus. ''That's how much money we have. We don't have a choice in Texas. We can't print money. We can't go into debt.''
The depth of the cuts, however, has caused divisions in the party. Some Republicans in the Senate are balking at the large reductions in money for public education and health care for the poor, calling them shortsighted. ''The kids aren't going away,'' said State Senator Robert F. Deuell, a Republican from Greenville and a physician. ''So you can build a school, or you can build a prison.''
The Senate is currently laying out its own budget bill, and Republican leaders say it will contain about $10 billion more than the House version, most of it for public schools and Medicaid. Senate Republicans are looking at various ways to raise revenue without calling them tax increases, like speeding up tax collections and eliminating some exemptions.
In a normal year, the Senate and House in Texas enter into negotiations and split the difference between proposals. The speaker of the House, Joe Straus, said in an interview that he saw the House bill as the beginning of a long negotiation. ''We are not blind to the issues that are unaddressed,'' he said.
But this year the two chambers are so far apart, and the public mood here is so hostile toward anything resembling a tax increase, that it is unclear how the two houses will bridge their differences. The House is not likely to accept any increases in revenue; the Senate is not likely to go along with the deep cuts in education and health care.
Veteran lawmakers on both sides said they were suffering from the public reaction against federal spending and the deficit in Washington, even though the state has little debt. In the Texas House, 31 freshman Republicans were swept in on the Tea Party tide on a small-government platform, and they are in no mood to compromise on raising taxes.
''You can't exaggerate the anger and frustration in Texas with the behavior of the federal government,'' said the State Senate finance chairman, Steve Ogden, a Republican from Bryan. ''And to a certain extent we are thrown into the same boat.''
The public pressure to reduce taxes makes it difficult to do something about what many budget experts say is a chronic shortage of revenue in Texas. The experts said the economic downturn caused only a third of the revenue shortfall here, as sales tax receipts fell off. Most of it, they said, stemmed from the state's decision to overhaul its business tax structure and to reduce local property taxes in 2006. Various tax exemptions have also weakened revenues over the years.
''The tax system is out of whack,'' Senator Ogden said. ''There are more and more exemptions, and the taxes we do have are not performing as expected.'' At the same time, Texas continues to grow by about 1,500 people a day, and costs are rising inexorably. ''It's unstable,'' he said. ''The curves will not cross.''
Given the political climate, however, few in the Capitol expect the Legislature to perform major surgery on the tax code. The Democrats were sidelined in the Republican landslide last fall, and moderate Republicans are worried about their re-election prospects after seeing so many incumbents fall to Tea Party challengers in the last election. If the final budget resembles the House version, however, some politicians fear that there could be a price to pay at the polls next year -- a backlash to the backlash.
The House plan would give schools almost $8 billion less than current state law requires over the next two years. Medicaid would be about $4 billion short of what officials say is needed to meet the growth in caseloads. One group of budget analysts predicted that 97,000 teachers and school employees would be laid off. Other analysts said that the cuts to Medicaid would force hundreds of nursing homes out of business and would have a devastating effect on rural hospitals and doctors.
Those sorts of austere budget cuts have not been seen in Texas since Truman was president, not even during the oil bust in the late 1980s and the recession in 2003, several lawmakers said.
''There is nothing comparable to this since World War II,'' said State Senator John Whitmire, a veteran Houston Democrat who is the vice chairman of the Finance Committee. ''I think we are in a hell of a mess, and I am not sure of the path out of it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Texas state representatives on Sunday at the Capitol in Austin before passing legislation to cut 12.3 percent from the next budget. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY JANNER/AUSTIN AMERICAN-STATESMAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Representatives Dwayne Bohac, left, and Jim Pitts, both in the Republican majority, took in debate on the budget last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB DAEMMRICH/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); NURSING HOMES (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (67%); MERIT PAY (66%); POPULATION GROWTH (54%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



190 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (TCM) THE ESSENTIALS: DIRECTED BY ELIA KAZAN As a theater and film director, Kazan helped bring into focus the method acting style of Marlon Brando, James Dean, Karl Malden and Eli Wallach. Widely honored, his movies earned 22 Academy Awards and 62 nominations. Yet he became a polarizing figure when, in 1952, he appeared as a witness for the House Un-American Activities Committee investigation into Communist influences in Hollywood. The reverberations of his testimony were felt even at the 1999 Oscar ceremony, during which the presentation of an honorary award to Kazan was greeted by both standing ovations and stony silence. 
This four-film tribute begins with ''Splendor in the Grass'' (1961), the William Inge drama, starring Natalie Wood and Warren Beatty (above with Ms. Wood), about sexual repression in small-town Kansas during the 1920s. ''The Sea of Grass'' (1947), with Katharine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy as a husband and wife on the American frontier, follows at 10:15; ''America, America'' (1963), a fictionalized account of Kazan's family's immigration to the United States, at 12:30; and ''A Face in the Crowd'' (1957), with Patricia Neal as a radio reporter who turns a folk-singing drifter (Andy Griffith) into a media star, at 3:30. The hosts Robert Osborne and Alec Baldwin explain why the films are required viewing.
10:30 A.M. (13) RELIGION & ETHICS NEWSWEEKLY Lucky Severson reports on a group of clergy that has been speaking out in support of Second Amendment rights and against gun control, and another group that is pushing to close loopholes in weapons sales. The Rev. James Martin, the culture editor of America magazine, discusses ''Of Gods and Men,'' a film about French Cistercian Trappist monks in Algeria who were threatened by Islamic militants. And Catherine Mandell discusses foods to avoid during Lent.
NOON (13) RICHARD HEFFNER'S OPEN MIND David Callahan, a founder of Demos, a public-policy group, talks about his new book, ''Fortunes of Change,'' about America's new liberal rich and the impact of their choices on philanthropic giving.
8 P.M.(Logo) BALLET HIGH Students in the graduating class of the Royal Winnipeg Ballet School balance the normal pressures of high school with daily dance classes and auditions, while trying to prove they have what it takes to become professionals.
8 P.M. (OWN) PRINCE WILLIAM & CATHERINE: A ROYAL LOVE STORY He was a prince. She was just an ordinary girl. But that didn't stop Kate Middleton from harboring a crush on William, starting in her schoolgirl days at Marlborough College and continuing through her early months at the University of St. Andrews in Scotland, where the two met, became friends -- and then lovers. The rest is history in the making.
9 P.M. (Syfy) FEROCIOUS PLANET (2011) An experimental device intended to view alternate universes malfunctions, transporting observers into a nightmarish dimension filled with bloodthirsty creatures. Now, if only they could fix the machine and get back home. John Rhys-Davies and Joe Flanigan star.
9 P.M. (National Geographic) DEATH OF A SEA MONSTER In the Arctic, paleontologists uncover a trove of the fossilized remains of a species of Jurassic-era marine predators, including a complete ichthyosaur skeleton, the first to be discovered.
9 P.M. (HGTV) SECRETS FROM A STYLIST Emily Henderson, a professional prop stylist and the Season 5 winner of ''HGTV Design Star,'' helps Lauren and Andre Gaines, a Los Angeles couple who recently bought a Spanish-style home whose original character has been diminished over the years. In ''The Antonio Treatment,'' at 9:30, Antonio Ballatore, the Season 4 ''Design Star'' winner, transforms the sunken living room of a young college professor who researches indie-rock into an entertainment space.
10 P.M. (HBO) COLIN QUINN LONG STORY SHORT The Brooklyn-born Mr. Quinn, right, presents his condensed history of the world at the Helen Hayes Theater on Broadway. Among the highlights: Caesar as the original Italian mobster, grocery shopping as a territorial dispute, a juxtaposition of Plato's cave allegory with the World Economic Forum, the Silk Road versus talk radio, and a riff on ancient Greece and Antigone that summons comparisons to Costco and Snooki of ''Jersey Shore.''
10 P.M. (TLC) LET'S TALK ABOUT SEX A look at the attitudes of American adolescents toward sex and sexuality, and those of their European counterparts.
11:30 P.M. (NBC) SATURDAY NIGHT LIVEHelen Mirren is the host; Foo Fighters are the musical guests. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARNER BROTHERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (91%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); DANCE (89%); DANCE EDUCATION (89%); RELIGION (86%); BALLET (84%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); ETHICS (69%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (68%); EASTER SEASON (64%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%); BRITISH ROYALTY (63%); GUN CONTROL (63%); IMMIGRATION (51%); PHILANTHROPY (50%)

PERSON: CATHERINE, DUCHESS OF CAMBRIDGE (63%); ALEC BALDWIN (58%); PRINCE WILLIAM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANITOBA, CANADA (51%) UNITED STATES (95%); ALGERIA (79%); CANADA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



191 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: In Last Hours, Worries From Sea to Shining Sea

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; Reporting was contributed by Elisabeth Bumiller from Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates; Dan Frosch from Denver; Michael Cooper, James Dao and Andrew Keh from New York; Robert Pear and Thom Shanker from Washington; and Kevin Sack from Atlanta.

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- Even in the remote reaches of northern Arizona, where the grandeur of nature can make human beings seem small and insignificant, the fear about a possible shutdown before a budget deal was announced late Friday was wreaking havoc amid the surging water and rustling spruce trees at the Grand Canyon.
''We're preparing our boats and packing up the food, but it all depends on Washington,'' said Steve Hatch, who was hoping to start a 12-day river and hiking expedition through the Grand Canyon for 20 clients on Monday but feared he might have to call the whole thing off. ''It's just ridiculous. I wish the politicians would take care of their business so we can take care of ours.'' 
The angst extended to the Augusta, Ga., home of Val Pedro, whose husband is a staff sergeant at Fort Gordon, after the Pentagon sent word to military families that they might receive only half their paychecks on April 15 in the event of a shutdown. ''We're freaking out,'' said Ms. Pedro, who has two young children and is worried that half of the usual $1,600 midmonth paycheck would mean turmoil for the household budget. ''We need to eat. Bills need to be paid. I don't know. I don't know.''
A ''once-in-a-lifetime trip'' through Canada planned by Daniel Macias and his wife, who live in Colorado, might have been interrupted if her passport had not come through because of a shutdown. Similarly, Aaron Earls, 31, of North Carolina, said that if he did not receive the passport he applied for three weeks ago, he might have had to cancel his missionary trip to Bolivia in June.
In Denver, a disabled veteran expressed alarm, even though the Department of Veterans Affairs said medical appointments and disability checks would have continued through a shutdown.
''If I lost my medical benefits, if this check lags at all, it would literally kill me,'' said Andrew Seeman, a Vietnam-era veteran who was maneuvering his wheelchair down a ramp outside the V.A. medical center in Denver.
Despite the federal government's concentration in Washington, the threat of a shutdown was being felt far and wide, even as an 11th-hour deal came through.
The families of soldiers killed in Iraq and Afghanistan could have suffered if funeral payments usually covered by the government were held up. The jobless could have seen delays in their unemployment benefits. And students visiting historical sites to learn about the country's past could have found ''closed'' signs on popular attractions.
''This messes things up,'' said Bailey Krieger, 14, an eighth grader at West Middle School in Muscatine, Iowa, who was leaving for Washington on Sunday with 48 classmates and was looking forward to a visit to the Smithsonian Institution, which would have been shuttered during a shutdown.
Still, the teacher organizing the trip, Sue Johannsen, said it would go ahead.
''I think the students are concerned and a little disappointed that some of the things they are hoping to see, that we've been talking about, they might not be able to see,'' said Ms. Johannsen, before the shutdown was averted. ''They're worried about that. I've tried to assure them there's still plenty of stuff to see.''
But she was concerned about a planned side trip to Philadelphia, where a visit to the Liberty Bell was to be one of their stops.
Independence National Historical Park, which houses the bell, is one of 395 national parks that were preparing to shut their gates at midnight Friday. Park rangers would then have spent the weekend ordering guests to vacate hotels and campgrounds within the parks by 6 p.m. Monday.
''There's a lot of people who are not going to have an experience of a lifetime,'' said David Barna, a spokesman for the National Park Service, remembering the calls he received in 1995 during the last shutdown, including one from a woman whose dream beachfront wedding at Padre Island National Seashore in south Texas had to be called off.
Over all, the Obama administration estimated that 800,000 of the 1.9 million civilian federal employees would be furloughed from coast to coast if the government went into shutdown mode.
At the Justice Department, 80 percent of the 117,600 employees are deemed essential and would have stayed on the job. At the Department of Homeland Security, 85 percent of the 222,500 employees would have continued working. By contrast, at the Education Department and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, fewer than 10 percent of employees would have stayed on the job.
Officials at one federal health agency, which was planning to release two studies next week, were urging journalists to complete their interviews with government scientists on Friday, just in case. The scientists would be free to speak to reporters next week, of course, on their own time, though some federal workers said they had been warned not to use government offices or telephones during a shutdown.
A senior Defense Department official said that all active-duty military personnel would have remained on duty but that they would have received only half their regular pay next Friday and no paychecks until a deal to end a shutdown was struck. There are about 800,000 Defense Department civilian employees worldwide, and about half, whose jobs are not deemed essential to national security, could be furloughed.
The $100,000 paid to families of service members who died in the line of duty would have been put on hold, which officials described as a particular hardship. Efforts had been under way to identify private organizations willing to offer interest-free loans to survivors to cover immediate costs of funerals, among other things.
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, in a meeting on Friday with the crown prince of Abu Dhabi after a trip to Baghdad, made a grim joke about the budget crisis in the capital. ''You know how things are in Washington when you'd rather be in Iraq,'' he said.
Patricia L. Allen, who works for the Internal Revenue Service in Denver as a taxpayer advocate, said a shutdown would have caused widespread inconvenience because it would have come at the height of the tax-filing season.
Ms. Allen helps taxpayers who face eviction or hardship because of problems with the tax agency. Now, she said, I.R.S. employees were facing their own problems.
''My fellow employees dread the idea of a shutdown,'' Ms. Allen said. ''We are like everybody else. We have children, mortgages, utility bills, rents and kids in college. Most of the people I work with live from paycheck to paycheck.''
The ripple effects of a shutdown would also have been felt on trains and buses across the country -- with the greatest impact in the Washington area. The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority estimated that it might lose up to a fifth of its daily ridership if federal offices closed down, and said it was considering operating shorter trains.
A shutdown would also have affected commuters as far away as Dallas, where more than 4,250 federal workers have annual transit passes, and commuter trains between Dallas and Fort Worth are often crowded with federal workers. ''I expect we'll see a very pronounced impact,'' said David Leininger, the chief financial officer of Dallas Area Rapid Transit.
At the Government Printing Office, most employees would have been furloughed in a shutdown but a small crew would have stayed on the job to produce the Congressional Record, to document the budget debate and make note of a final deal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, second from right, with a group of visitors on Friday in the Capitol Rotunda.
 Representatives Stephen Fincher, left, and Scott DesJarlais, grabbed lunch before meeting fellow Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CHILDREN (73%); HIKING (73%); VETERANS (72%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (72%); FAMILY (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); HISTORIC SITES (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (62%)

PERSON: STEPHEN FINCHER (59%); SCOTT DESJARLAIS (59%); JOE MANCHIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (86%); AUGUSTA, GA, USA (71%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (86%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



192 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GREENWOOD HEIGHTS JOURNAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Catering Hall's Plan For a Hotel Upsets The Neighbors

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Grand Prospect Hall has long held an affectionate spot in Brooklyn's heart, starting in the gaslight era of the 1890s when Brooklyn society ventured out of their elegant Park Slope brownstones to attend operas or other entertainment in the hall's gilded auditorium.
In later generations, the hall was a vaudeville palace, a fraternal clubhouse, even a site for a boxing match, but most Brooklynites are fond of Grand Prospect Hall today because it is a coveted spot for weddings and organizational parties. 
''We make your dreams come true,'' the owners, Michael and Alice Halkias, promise on their low-budget, late-night television commercials, which have won amused fans on YouTube.
These days, though, the catering hall is generating more anger than laughs.
Well, not actually the hall itself, but a plan by the hall's owners to replace the parking lot next door with an 11-story building with six floors of hotel atop five decks of garage. The proposal, some neighbors say, would add another tall building that blocks light and draw more traffic to quiet streets, altering the character of a working-class pocket of Brooklyn.
''Sunlight is why people moved to Brooklyn, not Manhattan,'' Bo Samajopoulos, 51, a retired carpenter and longtime resident, said while sitting in a kitchen flooded with daylight. ''Before you know it there'll be no sunlight.''
The neighborhood is an ethnically mixed enclave of wood-frame and brick row houses, many a century old, some ramshackle, that is variously called South Slope and Greenwood Heights (after nearby Green-Wood Cemetery).
In recent decades, tall or bulky apartment buildings have risen on its blocks, aimed at people who cannot quite afford brownstone Brooklyn. That wave, including the construction of an 11-story condominium building, prompted the City Planning Commission in 2005 to rezone the neighborhood and limit heights to 50 feet, or roughly six floors.
Mr. Samajopoulos, like other critics, says he does not oppose the hotel, just a height that violates the zoning limits he ''fought tooth and nail to get.''
But to Mr. Halkias, obtaining a zoning exception from the city is a matter of economic survival. The New York Marriott at the Brooklyn Bridge, with a 2,000-guest ballroom, is siphoning off some of his wedding business, he said, and hotels that may be built as part of the Atlantic Yards development or in Coney Island would steal away even more.
Putting up a hotel next to his 1,200-guest ballroom would allow him to provide a competitive amenity -- housing for out-of-town revelers -- and the 400-car garage would relieve valets from hunting for on-street spots for cars that cannot be accommodated in the existing 120-space lot.
''I have a cake with a cherry on top,'' is Mr. Halkias's sales pitch. ''The parking lot with the 400 spots is the cake and the cherry is a 160-room hotel.''
Mr. Halkias is a dapper, gregarious man who was born in Pittsburgh not long before World War II, grew up in Greece and Syria, returned to the United States after the war and settled in New York in 1966. He worked his way up from toiling in a bakery to owning 400 apartments, a Greek newspaper and three travel agencies.
He bought the hall in 1981, spending a chunk of his fortune to restore it to its 1903 glory (the first building burned down a couple of years earlier), with copies of Impressionist masterpieces, stained-glass windows and pink and chartreuse filigree on the grand ballroom's double-tiered balcony. Today, the ballroom and a smaller party room host Balkan festivals, Orthodox Jewish and other ethnic weddings, hospital dinners and high school proms.
''I don't want to create enemies,'' he said. ''I'm a very friendly guy. Whatever I do has to be beautiful and it has to be functional and it has to be likable.''
But Mr. Halkias has also issued a warning of sorts -- what he calls his Plan B. If he cannot build on the parking lot and prosper through upscale catering, he may have to go low end and high volume, he said. That, he said, would mean inviting promoters of cheaper, more raucous events that would draw crowds that might linger into the wee hours.
''People would be dumping cars all over the place,'' he said. ''I would have to turn Prospect Hall into a factory, not of weddings but rock concerts, ethnic concerts. This is not what I want to do, but this is the reality of markets.''
To neighborhood opponents, like Aaron Brashear, Mr. Halkias's Plan B amounts to a threat. Mr. Halkias denies the charge.
''It's not blackmail,'' he said. ''It's a marketing device to make this place profitable.''
Mr. Halkias contends that the neighborhood is already full of buildings as tall as what he plans, so it ''would not be out of character.''
A small irony in the conflict is that Mr. Halkias helped foster the rezoning by letting residents use his hall for a discussion. He said he knew then that he wanted to build a hotel but was assured by a local official -- he would not give a name -- that a way would be found to make an exception for him from the rezoning.
''I was too dumb,'' he said, explaining that he should have sought to have his building excluded from the newly zoned district.
Mr. Halkias has informally described his plans to Community Board 7, but, according to Jeremy Laufer, the district manager, he has not submitted a formal proposal that would be the basis for a yes or no recommendation for a zoning exception.
The dispute has gotten personal, with both Mr. Halkias and Mr. Samajopoulos, a Greek immigrant's son who worked on the Statue of Liberty's restoration, ribbing each other about their Greek roots. Mr. Halkias jokingly wonders how a Greek got a name like Bo. Mr. Samajopoulos makes fun of Mr. Halkias's promise that the hotel would be good for the neighborhood.
''You know what they say,'' Mr. Samajopoulos said. ''Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: For more than 100 years, the Grand Prospect Hall has been a fixture in Brooklyn. But Michael Halkias, top left, an owner, says that to stay competitive, he needs to build an 11-story hotel-parking garage next door. Some critics, like Bo Samajopoulos, left, say it would block out the sun. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); CITIES (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



193 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: In Yemen, Hardly a Revolution

BYLINE: By ISA BLUMI. 
Isa Blumi, an assistant professor of history at Georgia State University and a fellow at the Center for Area Studies at the University of Leipzig, is the author of ''Chaos in Yemen: Societal Collapse and the New Authoritarianism.''

 BODY:
Leipzig, Germany
TO Yemenis, violence in the streets and threats of state collapse are nothing new. Despite reports portraying the protests in Yemen as something of a revolution, democratic change has little possibility of success. President Ali Abdullah Saleh is essentially a figurehead; whether he stays or goes, the regime of technocrats and thugs he represents is unlikely to fold under pressure.
Since Mr. Saleh came to power in North Yemen in a 1978 coup, his regime has selectively used state violence to maintain its hold, often working through militias and other loyalists, including radical Sunni Muslims sympathetic to Al Qaeda. Predictably, the violence has come at great cost to a country struggling with high unemployment and widespread poverty. 
North Yemen and South Yemen were unified only in 1990, and quickly descended into a brief, bloody civil war in 1994, in which the north, aided by Saudi-financed Salafist groups, decimated the political order of the south, home to the country's best-educated, most cosmopolitan citizens. Two long-running conflicts -- a revolt in the northwest and a separatist insurrection in the oil- and gas-rich south -- have further fractured the society.
Societal fragmentation makes it hard for the opposition to move beyond its misleadingly simple goal of ''change.'' It is true that the hundreds of thousands of mostly young people in the streets have common traits; certainly unemployment and poverty explain their persistence.
But they are not a unified opposition. Indeed, one factor that has kept the United States and its allies from openly embracing the protesters in the streets is the incoherence of an opposition comprising upward of 100 distinct groups.
While the Obama administration has now grudgingly called for Mr. Saleh's removal, it understandably does not want to undermine America's long-term investment in the Yemeni regime. Washington's inaction as dissidents were persecuted and civilians were killed has cost it credibility, as evidenced by the protesters' cold response to the calls by the United States and by the Gulf Cooperation Council for a peaceful transition of presidential power. These overtures -- too little, too late -- sound empty to leaders of the opposition, like the remarkable feminist activist Tawakul Karman, who has opposed the Saleh regime since 2007 without American support.
The lack of connection with the Yemeni people cannot be easily ignored by anyone concerned about American influence in the region. For years the Saleh regime has exploited the war on terrorism for all it was worth, masterfully playing on the security fears of the United States and Yemen's northern neighbor, Saudi Arabia, and branding its political opponents as terrorists, for financial and political benefit. It has also devastated the opposition; years of killing and intimidation have left Yemeni reformers leaderless and despondent.
Meanwhile, the two regional conflicts have forced hundreds of thousands of Yemenis to flee to the slums of the capital, Sana, and cities like Mukalla, Taiz and Aden, where many have become eager participants in the street protests. Unfortunately, recent defections by some top military officers have enervated, rather than energized, these protests.
The best known of the so-called defectors is Gen. Ali Muhsin al-Ahmar. But in supposedly joining the protesters -- many of whom are suspicious of his motives -- he has weakened the possibility of unity among them. It was General Muhsin, after all, who commanded the forces against the rebels in northwest Yemen; for many, he is the hated face of the regime. In Egypt, where the army is widely admired, the defection of military officers from Hosni Mubarak's regime emboldened the opposition; in Yemen, distrust of the generals, particularly in the two conflict zones, means that the defections have had the opposite effect.
Paradoxically, the state's indiscriminate use of violence -- at least 100 Yemenis have been killed since early February -- has been the one thing that could potentially bridge the regional, class and sectarian divisions within the opposition. But in the end, the disparate protest groups face daunting obstacles. They are confronting an entrenched political class that is protected by a hard-core, fiercely loyal Republican Guard and by American-trained special operations units.
Yemen's brave youth surely must know that the government -- though perhaps not its figurehead, Mr. Saleh -- is insulated from regime change, forcible or otherwise. The regime's resources -- a mix of Western military aid and oil revenues -- give it up the upper hand.
True change in Yemen would require Washington to abandon its long-held aid programs for the country's oligarchs, given under the guise of counterterrorism, and support democratic processes, wherever they may lead.
Given the mistrust that permeates Yemeni society, an inconclusive repositioning of the fractured opposition is a more likely outcome. Those now putting their lives on the line for dignity, freedom and justice could be reconfigured into violent factions, leading to a new phase of hostility against the United States and its Saudi allies. Whatever happens to Mr. Saleh, Yemen's future looks bleak.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW HOLLISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); COUPS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); AL-QAEDA (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CIVIL WAR (75%); WAR ON TERROR (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); RELIGION (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); SLUM DWELLINGS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GERMANY (89%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



194 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: City May Play Role in Labor Fight Between Crane Workers and Developers

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI; William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The men who operate and maintain cranes and other heavy equipment are the royalty of the construction industry, with some earning well over $200,000 a year in jobs often passed down from fathers to sons.
Now powerful elements of New York City's real estate industry are trying to enlist City Hall in a looming contract battle with their union, whose conduct is governed by an accumulation of traditions, work rules and contract terms dating 100 years to the days of steam shovels.
The city is considering a request by developers and contractors to require crane operators to carry a national license, rather than a city one, which is likely to antagonize the union because it could put people from outside New York, and outside the union, into the cabs of cranes. The real estate executives and Deputy Mayor Stephen Goldsmith say the move would make job sites safer. But the executives are not denying that the threat of a new licensing requirement could help them achieve another goal: eliminating a small but expensive class of workers in the union -- master mechanics and oilers -- whose jobs, they say, were long ago rendered obsolete by technological advances. 
''I'm hoping this will lead to real negotiations,'' said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, the powerful lobbying organization. ''If it's nonproductive work, why are we paying for it?''
The struggle provides a glimpse into the arcane world of high-rise construction, and an industry desperate to cut costs and increase profits in an unforgiving economy. It also puts the city in a tenuous position of being perceived as a tool for pressuring a union.
Leaders of the union, Locals 14 and 15 of the International Union of Operating Engineers, who represent about 6,500 workers, did not return calls requesting comment. But they are clearly wary of being depicted as the poster boys for padded contracts: after refusing to make concessions, as other unions have done in recent years, they are negotiating with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to reduce by two-thirds the number of master mechanics required on the construction of three skyscrapers, the transit hub, the national memorial and the vehicle screening center at ground zero.
The union dates to the 1890s, when an ancestor, the National Union of Steam Engineers, was organized to represent the men who operated and repaired the often dangerous steam boilers found in factories and office buildings, and on construction sites. The operating engineers are an insular group, still largely Irish-American and Italian-American, with jobs passed from father to son, a relative or a friend. They have been far slower than electricians and carpenters at integrating their ranks with blacks, Hispanics and women.
Leaders of the two locals also have a long and tangled relationship with organized crime figures. Two federal racketeering prosecutions in 2003 resulted in prison terms for most of the leadership and led to the appointment of a corruption monitor, George Stamboulidis, in 2009, to oversee Local 14. His actions have led to the expulsion of two members and he has moved against several others.
The developers and union contractors want to eliminate the requirement for one master mechanic on construction sites where four or more operating engineers work. The mechanics earn $65 an hour (crane operators earn $64), with another $30 an hour in benefits, to be on site to repair cranes; they get double wages after eight hours and on Saturdays.
But the tower cranes are not owned by the contractor the engineers work for. They are rented from crane companies, which usually prohibit anyone but their own engineers from fixing the equipment, leaving the contractor's engineers with relatively little to do.
The contractors also want to do away with ''relief crane operators,'' a second operator required to stand by for every crane on buildings constructed of concrete, rather than steel, as well as ''oilers,'' whose only task is to fire up the crane every morning, which, contractors say, takes less than an hour.
The oiler and the relief operator jobs are vestiges of when the equipment required a higher degree of maintenance and the act of operating a steam crane was more physically demanding.
''They've become what we know in the industry as glorified timekeepers,'' said one veteran crane operator, who declined to be identified so as not to anger members of his union, especially the master mechanics and oilers. Still, he said, it would be foolish to assume that getting rid of those jobs would make buildings significantly cheaper through labor savings. ''They're going to put it in their pocket,'' he said of contractors.
At a meeting last month, Stephen M. Ross of Related Companies and other members of the Real Estate Board pressed Mr. Goldsmith to adopt a national licensing requirement for tower crane operators and to do away with the city license that they must now carry. That could open the ranks of crane operators to more people, and it could also weaken the union's grip on the licensing process. City licenses require three years' experience working under a city-licensed crane operator, virtually all of whom belong to the union.
Mr. Goldsmith said the city favored national licensing out of a concern for safety, a critical concern after nine people died in two crane accidents in 2008. National standards, he said, tend to evolve more quickly with changes in technology. He said the Bloomberg administration would be talking to contractors, the City Council and union officials over the next couple of weeks about how to make it happen.
Jessica Lappin, the city councilwoman from the Upper East Side, where both crane collapses occurred, said the issue was not so simple. ''I don't want someone from Kansas coming here with a national certificate and operating a crane on 51st Street,'' she said, referring to the site of one of the accidents. ''We want to make sure our licensing regs are specific to New York,'' a very dense urban environment with little room for mistakes.
Mr. Goldsmith said the city would consider adding provisions that would require nationally licensed operators to receive training in an urban setting before being allowed to run a crane in the city.
The real estate board also unveiled an 11-page PowerPoint presentation at City Hall claiming that doing away with 56 ''non-working'' mechanics and oilers at the World Trade Center site could save $67 million over the next three years. The analysis assumed that the mechanics cost their employers as much as $700,000 apiece in wages, benefits and taxes, working 15 hours a day, six days a week.
One real estate executive conceded that there were ''unnecessary exaggerations'' in the numbers. He put the potential annual cost of a master mechanic at $400,000, a figure that some in the industry still view with incredulity.
But the operating engineers are unlikely to get much sympathy from their fellow construction workers. Over the last three years, union plumbers, iron workers, carpenters and electricians have made concessions to their employers, but the relatively smaller group of operating engineers' locals have not.
''A few years ago, I might've gone with these guys,'' Robert Walsh, business manager of Iron Workers Local 40, said. ''But those guys don't want to work with anybody else. They don't get it. Something has to be done.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 2011; April 24, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about a looming fight between the New York real estate industry and the crane operators' union misspelled the surname of a corruption monitor who was appointed after federal racketeering prosecutions of two union locals. He is George Stamboulidis, not Stambolidis.
An earlier version of this article also described the role of the corruption monitor, George Stamboulidis, imprecisely.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on April 9 about coming contract negotiations between developers and the International Union of Operating Engineers in New York misidentified the jurisdiction of a corruption monitor appointed after federal racketeering prosecutions in 2003 resulted in prison terms for most of the union leadership. The monitor oversees only Local 14, not Local 14 and Local 15.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A real estate board says eliminating certain construction practices could save millions of dollars in the project at the World Trade Center site, above.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); MAYORS (77%); CITIES (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); LOBBYING (71%); CRIME RATES (64%); ORGANIZED CRIME (50%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2011



195 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: Wholesale Inventories Rise, but Sales Fall Unexpectedly

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Wholesale inventories in the United States rose in February, but sales unexpectedly fell to post their largest decline in nearly two years, a government report showed on Friday. 
Total wholesale inventories increased 1 percent, to $437.99 billion, the highest level since December 2008, the Commerce Department said, after an unrevised 1 percent rise in January.
Economists polled by Reuters had expected stocks of unsold goods at wholesalers to rise 1 percent in February.
Sales at wholesalers fell 0.8 percent, the largest drop since March 2009, after rising by a downwardly revised 3.3 percent in January.
The decline in sales was the first since June 2009 and suggested that retailers were anticipating a slowdown in consumer demand. Consumer spending got off to a slow start in the first two months of 2011 after a brisk pace in the fourth quarter, held back by bad weather and rising gasoline prices.
Analysts had expected sales at wholesalers to rise 1.8 percent in February after a previously reported 3.5 percent surge in January.
Sales at wholesalers in February were weak almost across the board, although the sales increase for groceries was the biggest since January 1997. Petroleum sales fell 1 percent, but stocks rose 9.3 percent -- the largest since June 2008.
The weak sales pace raised the inventory-to-sales-ratio, which measures how long it would take to clear shelves at the current sales pace, to 1.16 months, from 1.14 months in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (91%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); RETAILERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (57%); GASOLINE PRICES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



196 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Sticking by Predictions For the Stock Market

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
PREDICTING the future is a tough business, particularly when unexpected events make your crystal ball look more like a snow globe. But the group of strategists and advisers polled for this column in January are so far sticking to their forecasts that equities are poised for growth this year.
This is fairly remarkable given what the first quarter brought: natural disasters, serious problems at a Japanese nuclear reactor and revolution and unrest in the Middle East. That politicians in the United States are bickering along party lines, with the budget hanging in the balance, seems trivial by comparison.
''If we had all sat down in January and predicted we'd have turmoil in the Middle East and Africa, a devastating tsunami in Japan, an earthquake in New Zealand, housing continuing to go down, oil over $100 a barrel and policy makers still fighting with each other, we might have been tempted to say that 1,400 for the S.& P. looked aggressive,'' Marc Stern, chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust, said of his year-end stock index prediction. ''But the market hung in there well because of corporate earnings.'' 
Richard Madigan, chief investment officer for J.P. Morgan Private Bank's global access portfolios, was equally impressed with how the stock market weathered this spate of shocks. ''It's staggering what we saw and how well behaved the market was,'' he said. ''I don't believe the markets would have behaved as well as they had over the past three months if investors were fully invested.''
That was the silver lining for those who analysts who made bullish calls. Many people were still hesitant to invest their cash despite predictions that the stock markets would rise steadily this year.
Back in January, Mr. Stern predicted as much, saying that stocks would have to rise more before most investors would buy equities again.
To one contrarian, waiting on equities is not a bad thing with the prospect of inflation still low. ''Domestically, you don't have the source of factors to create inflation,'' said Richard Cookson, chief investment officer at Citi Private Bank. ''You have broad monetary policy crawling along. You have a situation where unemployment or underemployment is extremely high. You don't have the ability for employees to gouge more from their employers.''
So with the second quarter under way, let's see what our group sees for the rest of the year.
CONSENSUS The big debate when I spoke to this group in January was over whether the time was right to move money from bonds to stocks. With the exception of Mr. Cookson, the consensus was that it was.
Those beliefs are even firmer now. ''It is important to point out that stocks have not been this cheap to bonds since 1980,'' said Niall Gannon, director of wealth management at the Gannon Group at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. ''We see a global equity strategy focused on where the earnings are produced.''
To that end, he treats Japanese equities like American companies because the United States consumes so many Japanese products, while he considers Nike a non-American company because only 25 percent of its earnings come from sales here.
Some suggestions for variations on stocks have not fared as well.
Bill Stone, chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth, said he favored dividend-paying stocks in January but admitted that they performed better in February when the stock market lost some value than they did when the market was strong.
Still, he said he believed that Cisco Systems announcing its first dividend ever in March was a sign that such stocks could come back in vogue. ''It's still a nice play in risk-reward terms,'' he said. ''I think we're at the very beginning of the reallocation into equities, and that makes it attractive.''
Mr. Stern said he continued to believe that convertible bonds were right for people who want more return but were still hesitant about putting a lot of money into equities. ''If the stock went up 25 percent, the convertible bond could go up 12 to 15 percent,'' he said. ''If the stock went down 25 percent, the convertible bond would roughly break even.''
SURPRISES Beyond the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and the unrest in the Middle East, there were other unexpected changes.
On the positive side, the unemployment rate has dropped to 8.8 percent. Mr. Madigan had predicted that it would hover around 9 to 10 percent for the foreseeable future. ''I'm thrilled that I was wrong,'' he said. But he said he did not think there would be real economic growth until employees were paid more.
The worries about a wave of municipal bond defaults seem to have been overdone -- or at least premature. Mr. Gannon said his group created a model with a 2 to 3 percent default rate for the year, but he now sees that as too high. And even if that default rate occurs, he said it would not have a huge impact on portfolios with higher-grade municipal bonds.
He noted that the rate at which investors recovered money from defaults of general obligation bonds has historically been high. Plus, he estimated that even with a few defaults, you would still do better than if you left your money in cash.
On the negative side, oil prices are far higher than anyone imagined because of the turmoil in the Middle East. Yet Mr. Cookson argued that higher oil prices were ultimately going to affect growth, not cause inflation.
''In the U.S., it's costing you 30 percent more to fill up your gas tank,'' he said. ''If you can't get more money to offset that, it's a growth question, not an inflation question. People look in generic terms at inflation, but you can't look at it that way.''
Mr. Cookson's one seeming error was to advocate buying Japanese equities. Of course, he could not have foreseen the events in Japan. But he said he remained just as bullish on Japan over the long term. ''We went even more overweight,'' he said.
The one conundrum is the continuing rise in the price of gold. Mr. Stern had predicted it would drop in value, but except for a dip, it has continued to rise. ''Even the gold bulls would acknowledge that they cannot tell you using pen and paper that it's going to be worth $1,486 on a particular day,'' he said. ''It's a feeling that it is going higher.'' He still advocates cutting gold allocations.
NEW RISKS The rest of 2011 is certainly not clear sailing. Three areas concern these strategists: Saudi Arabian stability, Chinese inflation and politicians in the United States.
After the 30-year reign of Hosni Mubarak came to an end in Egypt, there is concern about the stability of the regime in Saudi Arabia. If that government fell, oil prices would rise stratospherically and send the economy into a global recession. ''You can't put a risk rating on it,'' Mr. Cookson said. ''People do, but it's a meaningless exercise.''
Inflation in China seems to be more predictable. Mr. Stern noted that real estate development increased 35 percent last year from the previous year, a sign of a bubble. But he said he thought it was a good sign that Chinese policy makers raised interest rates this week.
As to the budget battle in Washington, ''We're not interested in whether Republicans or Democrats win,'' Mr. Stern said. ''We want some policies that restrain the debt level. We think grown-ups need to make grown-up decisions.''
Whether the group's latest predictions will fare as well as their earlier ones is hard to say. We'll check in on them next quarter to see how they did.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marc Stern, chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust, said that convertible bonds were right for people who wanted more return but were still hesitant about putting a lot of money into equities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (88%); BONDS (88%); EXECUTIVES (87%); BUDGETS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TSUNAMIS (76%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (76%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); EARTHQUAKES (69%); MONETARY POLICY (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



197 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: In a Survey of Bosses, Good News for Job Seekers

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
AMERICAN companies say they plan to hire. If they do as they say, the unemployment picture will brighten considerably.
In a quarterly survey of chief executives, the Business Roundtable found that 52 percent of companies planned to hire workers in the United States over the next six months, while just 11 percent said they expected to reduce employment. 
Never before have so many chief executives said they planned to hire, or so few said they planned to cut payrolls. The survey has been taken every three months since late 2002.
The Business Roundtable includes chief executives of 200 major American companies. If most of them did add workers, that would almost certainly have a substantial effect on employment in the country. Two other broader surveys of companies are taken each month by the Institute for Supply Management. Its survey of manufacturers has been showing more companies planning to increase employment than reduce it since the fall of 2009, and indeed manufacturing employment rose in 2010 for the first full year since 1997, according to the Labor Department.
It took longer for service companies to begin hiring. But the I.S.M. survey of such companies has shown positive readings since last fall, and the latest government report indicates that employment in that sector has risen to the highest level in two years.
All the surveys are aimed at measuring the breadth of employment plans, as opposed to the magnitude of such plans. So a company planning to add a few workers would count just as much as one planning to add thousands.
Whatever the companies say, though, consumers remain far from certain that jobs will materialize. In the latest consumer confidence survey by the Conference Board, only 20 percent of respondents said they expected jobs to be added to the economy over the next six months, slightly fewer than the number who expected a decline. Still, consumers have a history of pessimism in that survey, as is shown in the chart, and the proportion expecting gains is higher than it was in the years before the recession.
The I.S.M. numbers are normally presented on a scale of zero to 100, with 50 indicating that as many companies are hiring as are firing; numbers above that level indicating more hiring. The higher the figure, the more prevalent hiring is. In the charts, the figures are rebased so that zero is the neutral number.
Both the service and manufacturing figures slipped a little in March, which could indicate that growth is slowing. But the manufacturing figures for each of the first three months of 2011 were higher than in any previous month since 1973.
The Business Roundtable survey was conducted from Feb. 28 through March 18, and received responses from 142 of the 200 chief executives, which the organization said was the largest response rate ever.
The survey includes three questions, each of which produced unusually optimistic responses. Asked about their own companies' plans for capital spending in the United States, 62 percent said they planned increases, while 6 percent expected to reduce spending. That was the best response since the first quarter of 2005, when 60 percent planned increases and only 3 percent expected to spend less.
In response to another question, 92 percent of the chief executives said they expected increases in sales for their companies, while none said they expected a decline. It was the first time that none of the executives thought sales would decline.
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Time to Hire? Companies in the United States say they plan to hire over the next six months, but consumers are skeptical. (Sources: Business Roundtable, Haver Analytics, Institute of Supply Management, The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



198 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Last-Minute Budget Deal Averts Government Shutdown

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congressional leaders and President Obama headed off a shutdown of the government with less than two hours to spare Friday night under a tentative budget deal that would cut $38 billion from federal spending this year.
After days of tense negotiations and partisan quarrelling, House Republicans came to preliminary terms with the White House and Senate Democrats over financing the government for the next six months, resolving a stubborn impasse that had threatened to disrupt federal operations across the country and around the globe.
Speaker John A. Boehner, who had pressed Democrats for cuts sought by members of the conservative new House majority, presented the package of widespread spending reductions and policy provisions and won a positive response from his rank and file shortly before 11 p.m.
Both Democrats and Republicans proclaimed they had reached a deal and would begin the necessary steps to pass the bill and send it to Mr. Obama next week. 
Democrats said that under the agreement, the budget measure would not include provisions sought by Republicans to limit environmental regulations and to restrict financing for Planned Parenthood and other groups that provide abortions. But Mr. Boehner said in a statement that the agreement included a restriction on abortion financing in Washington.
''This has been a lot of discussion and a long fight,'' Mr. Boehner said as he left the party meeting. ''But we fought to keep government spending down because it really will in fact help create a better environment for job creators in our country.''
Speaking from the White House after the Republican meeting ended, Mr. Obama said that both sides gave ground in reaching the bargain and that some of the cuts accepted by Democrats ''will be painful.''
''Programs people rely on will be cut back,'' said Mr. Obama, who said Americans had to begin to live within their means. ''Needed infrastructure projects will be delayed.''
The announcements capped a day of drama as lawmakers and members of the federal work force waited anxiously to see whether money for government agencies would run out at midnight.
''We didn't do it at this late hour for drama,'' Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic majority leader, said. ''We did it because it has been hard to arrive at this point.''
In the closed-door Republican session, according to people present in the room, Mr. Boehner described the plan as the best deal he could wring from Democrats and said the cuts -- an estimated $38 billion in reductions -- represented the ''largest real dollar spending cut in American history.''
Although both sides compromised, Republicans were able to force significant spending concessions from Democrats in exchange for putting to rest some of the vexing social policy fights that had held up the agreement.
Because of the need to put the compromise into legislative form, Congressional leaders said the House and Senate would vote overnight to pass a stopgap measure financing the government through Thursday to prevent any break in the flow of federal dollars. The actual budget compromise would be considered sometime next week.
The Senate approved the stopgap measure by 11:20 p.m. and the House approved it after midnight. The Office of Management and Budget issued a memo saying normal government operations were back on track.
The developments came after Republicans and Democrats spent the day blaming each other for what could have been the first lapse in government services brought on by Congress in 15 years.
As the midnight deadline approached, efforts to finish a deal intensified, and Mr. Obama and Mr. Boehner spoke by telephone to try to find an agreement.
''Both sides are working hard to reach the kind of resolution Americans desire,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate Republican leader, who had consulted closely with Mr. Boehner on strategy during the fractious talks. ''A resolution is actually within reach. The contours of a final agreement are coming into focus.''
Mr. McConnell's optimism could not disguise the fact that time was steadily slipping away, and testy leaders of the two parties were pushing hard to shape public perceptions of who was responsible for an impasse that threatened to have serious political repercussions -- and to presage even more consequential fiscal showdowns in the months ahead. Democrats said Republicans were insisting on overreaching policy provisions; Republicans said it remained about money.
After nightlong negotiations that ended before dawn on Friday yielded no agreement, Senator Reid went on the offensive. He told reporters and said on the Senate floor that Mr. Boehner, the Senate Democrats and Mr. Obama had essentially settled on $38 billion in cuts from current spending, a figure that represented a substantial concession for Democrats.
But he said that Republicans were refusing to abandon a policy provision that would withhold federal financing for family planning and other health services for poor women from Planned Parenthood and other providers.
''This is indefensible, and everyone should be outraged,'' Mr. Reid said on the Senate floor. ''The Republican House leadership have only a couple of hours to look in the mirror, snap out of it and realize how truly shameful they have been.''
In a terse statement of his own to reporters, Mr. Boehner said there was ''only one reason we do not have an agreement yet, and that is spending.'' He asked, ''When will the White House and when will Senate Democrats get serious about cutting spending?''
As the day went on, aides reported progress in attempts to reach an accommodation on the family planning provision. Even veteran anti-abortion Republicans, like Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, indicated a willingness to compromise, not wanting the party to be accused of shutting down the government over divisive social policy and diluting its new emphasis on cutting spending. Other Republicans, in interviews and statements, indicated that it was time to end the stalemate.
The dueling characterizations of the negotiations added to the frustration, extending far beyond the nation's capital, among federal employees and the people who rely on their services, as they waited to find out whether serious disruptions were imminent, and how long they might last.
Despite the disagreement over what still divided the two parties, it was clear the dollar difference had been reduced considerably, to about $1 billion or $2 billion. That amount left some lawmakers and their constituents grappling to understand how the federal government could be shut down over such a relatively small sum. Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, said he was embarrassed. ''People across Virginia cannot understand why we can't get this done,'' he said.
Allies of Mr. Boehner, the veteran lawmaker in his first months as speaker, said he seemed to be pursuing a strategy of pushing the negotiations to the last possible tick of the clock to appease rank-and-file conservatives, who have been very reluctant to give an inch from the $61 billion in cuts approved by the House.
In a private party meeting Friday afternoon, Mr. Boehner told Republican lawmakers that he was fighting for all the cuts he could get, and regaled them with reports of how angry Mr. Obama was with him for the hard line he has taken in the talks -- news that elated his membership.
Emerging from the meeting, Mr. Boehner called the negotiations ''respectful,'' but added: ''We're not going to roll over and sell out the American people like has been done time and time again in Washington.''
In the absence of a deal, Mr. Boehner again urged the Senate to pass a temporary House budget resolution that would finance the military for the balance of the fiscal year, cut $12 billion in spending from the current year's budget and keep the rest of the government operating for another week, as Republicans in the House had voted to do.
''This is the responsible thing to do,'' he told reporters.
Senate Democrats rejected that approach as a gimmick, and Mr. Obama said he would veto the resolution.
Mr. Reid, who at one news conference was surrounded by about three dozen Democratic senators in an unusual tableau, told reporters that the Senate would explore the possibility of a stopgap bill that would keep the government open for another week. But it was unlikely to clear procedural barriers.
It was an unusual Friday on Capitol Hill, a day when corridors are often empty of lawmakers who have left for the weekend. Instead, they milled about, and took the Senate floor to expound, as they nervously awaited news of an agreement or braced for the expiration of government financing. It was frustrating to some because most lawmakers were not privy to the high-level talks.
''I hope that negotiations are continuing by someone somewhere,'' Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas, said as he spoke about six hours before funding would run out.
Lawmakers said they realized that the outcome of the negotiations would have implications not only for them, but also for the federal work force, the public, the economy and the nation's image.
''We know the whole world is watching us today,'' Mr. Reid said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The House speaker, John A. Boehner, spoke with reporters Friday night, when Congressional leaders agreed on a federal budget. (A1)
Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, at a news conference on the continuing federal budget negotiations on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''Programs people rely on will be cut back,'' President Obama told the nation Friday night from the White House. ''Needed infrastructure projects will be delayed.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); ABORTION (72%); LABOR FORCE (69%); JOB CREATION (64%); HISTORY (50%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (89%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



199 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: In Outburst, Putin Says W.T.O. Rules Don't Apply

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia interrupted a speech on the economy by a deputy minister on Friday to sharply rebuke him for suggesting that the government should abide by World Trade Organization rules on import tariffs. Russia is not yet a member of the global trade group but is applying to join. 
It was unclear how, if at all, Mr. Putin's interjection would affect the delicate talks that seemed close to success.
Trade officials in both the United States and the European Union say Russia has met nearly all requirements after cracking down on pirating, agreeing to stricter rules against counterfeited pharmaceutical drugs and negotiating with Finland on tariffs for round-log timber exports, a particular sticking point
So it came as a surprise when Mr. Putin interrupted the speech of a deputy minister of economy, Andrei Klepach, to say he would order Russian officials not to obey W.T.O. rules.
Mr. Klepach had been talking about industrial electrical equipment, like turbines, saying that Russian factories were struggling to compete with Chinese imports and that officials could not raise tariffs because of the free trade commitments undertaken by Russia while trying to join the W.T.O. Officials' ''hands are tied,'' the deputy minister said.
Mr. Putin then burst out, using sharp language, that Russian officials should ignore the rules. ''This is a direct order,'' Mr. Putin said, according to a report on the meeting in St. Petersburg by the Interfax news agency.
''As soon as we start fulfilling W.T.O. obligations without being a member, they, our partners, will lose any wish to admit us,'' Mr. Putin said. ''Why the hell should they admit us if we already observe everything?''
Mr. Putin has been known as a W.T.O. skeptic for years, despite his government's negotiation for membership.
In 2009, at another time when Russia seemed close to joining, Mr. Putin abruptly broke off talks and said Russia would join only as part of a customs union with Belarus and Kazakhstan. Now, though, Russia has dropped that idea and is negotiating alone.
It has been a long -- and surely frustrating -- process. Russia first applied to join the W.T.O.'s predecessor, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, in 1993, and its application has been pending longer than that of any other member in the 153-country group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (77%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (69%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); BELARUS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011



200 of 679 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: A National Debate Over the Budget

 BODY:
To the Editor:
David Brooks is right that Americans have failed to ''confront the implications of their choices'' (''The Ryan Journey,'' column, April 8). We have, for example, started a trillion dollars' worth of war and passed an almost trillion-dollar tax cut at the same time -- one of the stupidest and most self-destructive choices in American history.
But the only thing courageous about Representative Paul D. Ryan's proposal is that it dares to suggest reviving the America of the 19th century, when the poor, the elderly, the infirm and the otherwise unfortunate solved the problems they might have posed by simply dying off. 
Our current budget crisis is the result of three things: the Bush tax cuts, the Bush wars and the Bush recession caused by our failure, initiated by President Ronald Reagan, to properly regulate our financial institutions. The Ryan proposal doesn't touch military spending; it further challenges our solvency by giving the rich an even bigger tax break; and it courts another disaster by seeking the repeal of the recent financial regulation law.
And while entitlements do pose a long-term challenge, simply means-testing both contributions and payouts could balance those budgets while minimizing the damage to the most vulnerable.
Mr. Ryan hasn't started a process or taken a ''bold step,'' as Mr. Brooks suggests; he has simply thrown a handful of red meat as far to the right as possible, and it should not be treated as a legitimate policy proposal.
DAVID BERMAN New York, April 8, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''G.O.P. Blueprint Would Remake Health Policy'' (front page, April 5):
Let me get this straight: Medicare's solvency is threatened by rising health care costs, an aging population and an increase in life expectancy, and Representative Paul D. Ryan's solution is to stretch Medicare dollars even thinner by giving a big chunk off the top to private insurers?
Throwing seniors into the private insurance market is ludicrous; can you imagine what the premiums will be?
Of course, the real goal of Mr. Ryan's plan isn't really improving health care or lowering the deficit; it's about transferring a tremendous public asset -- taxpayer health care dollars -- into private hands. And here I thought Republicans abhorred redistributing wealth.
JOSH GOLIN Arlington, Mass., April 5, 2011
To the Editor:
Re ''The Budget Battles: The Threat to Medicaid and Medicare'' (editorial, April 6):
Representative Paul D. Ryan's proposed Medicaid changes will indeed fall most heavily on the most vulnerable -- not only on the elderly, poor and disabled, but also on children, nearly 30 million of whom are covered by the program. At the National Health Law Program, we believe that Mr. Ryan's proposed block grants to states would force them to reduce the costs of Medicaid through painful cuts to eligibility and services. We predict that these cuts will affect many ''dual eligibles,'' or seniors and people with disabilities who rely on Medicaid to cover the cost of services, such as long-term care, that Medicare does not cover. Community-based supportive services, which keep people with disabilities in their communities, are also likely targets.
The problem is not the program: the average cost per Medicaid beneficiary is significantly lower than under private insurance as a result of much lower administrative costs. The problem is politicians and bureaucrats who seek quick fixes on the backs of marginalized populations.
EMILY SPITZER Executive Director National Health Law Program Washington, April 7, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MORGAN ELLIOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); HISTORY (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (74%); AGING TRENDS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); INSURANCE (71%); AGING (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MEDICAID (55%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (89%); RONALD REAGAN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2011

 
