

401 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: With Rebound in Exports, Japan's Economy Grew 4.6% in Last Quarter of '09

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Japan's economy grew at an annualized rate of 4.6 percent in the final quarter of 2009, preliminary numbers showed Monday, as a rebound in exports helped alleviate fears of a ''double-dip'' recession. 
 Still, economists forecast that growth will slow this year and that Japan is likely to be overtaken by China as the world's second-largest economy, behind the United States.
 The figures released Monday will also act as a test of recent changes Japan has made in how it measures economic activity. Tokyo has come under increasing attack for wild variations in its gross domestic product readings: in the third quarter last year, the government initially said the economy grew a robust 4.8 percent, only to revise that rate down to 1.3 percent. The latest numbers, the government says, have been adjusted for more accuracy.
 Japan's economic growth has long been sluggish since an economic bubble burst in 1990. But a manufacturing surge in the mid-2000s, fueled by exports to China and strong spending by consumers in the United States, had raised hopes that Japan's economy was finally back on track.
 The global economic crisis, however, decimated the country's mainstay exports and brought on Japan's worst recession since World War II, in late 2008. Since mid-2009, Japan has limped back into recovery, helped by exports and stronger capital investment. 
 The growth in exports has been buoyed by a recovery in China and the rest of Asia, as well as a weaker yen in recent months. Still, personal consumption remains depressed, and deflation is once again a concern.
 Figures for the latest quarter showed that capital spending rose 1 percent, while private consumption rose 0.7 percent.
 The figures released Monday did seem to dispel the fears of some economists of a double-dip recession rather than the more familiar V shape. Growth in the October-December quarter came to 1.1 percent above that of the third quarter and beat economists' average forecast, 0.8 percent. It was the third consecutive quarter of growth. 
 Still, many economists warn that deflation, or a widespread decline in prices, threatens Japan's long-term recovery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); DEFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (98%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010



402 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Charges in Web Video Bring Unusual Rebuttal From F.D.I.C.

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
All week long, officials at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation watched with growing dismay as a YouTube video ricocheted around the Internet. In 4 minutes 26 seconds, the clip asserted that the agency's sale last year of the assets of the failed bank IndyMac to a group of private investors was a sweetheart deal.
 Finally, F.D.I.C. officials decided they had had enough.
 ''It is unfortunate but necessary to respond to blatantly false claims in a Web video that is being circulated'' about the creation of OneWest Bank out of the assets of IndyMac, the agency's chief spokesman, Andrew Gray, said in a written statement late Friday. 
 In the statement, he went on to say that the video ''has no credibility'' and was replete with ''falsehoods.'' 
 Mr. Gray expressed particular alarm about the video's claim that ''the F.D.I.C. just announced it needs to start borrowing money from the Treasury.'' Nonsense, Mr. Gray retorted: ''We continue to be funded by the banking industry through assessments, not by taxpayers as claimed in the video.''
 The F.D.I.C. has not borrowed from the Treasury since 1992, but officials have said it might have to do so, as a last resort, because bank failures have caused losses to its insurance fund.
 The unusual statement by the F.D.I.C. was not only an effort at rumor control and a nod to the power of online media but also a defense of the agency at a time when Congress is contemplating a broad overhaul of financial regulations. 
 It was also the latest episode in the tangled afterlife of IndyMac Bancorp, which the government seized after a run on the bank in July 2008, in one of the largest bank failures ever. 
 IndyMac, based in Pasadena, Calif., specialized in so-called alt-A mortgages, which allowed borrowers with good credit to take out loans without having to fully document their income and assets. The loans were rated a rung above subprime mortgages. 
 Last March, the F.D.I.C. sold IndyMac's assets for $13.9 billion to a consortium of investors led by Steven T. Mnuchin. 
 Other members of the OneWest consortium included firms run or founded by the financiers J. Christopher Flowers, Stephen Friedman, Robert L. Leeds and John A. Paulson.
 Those men are alumni of Goldman Sachs -- a fact emphasized by the video, which insinuates that favoritism played a role in the F.D.I.C.'s choice of buyers. 
 ''Whoever said it's good to have friends in high places wasn't kidding around,'' the video states. 
 The F.D.I.C. says that OneWest was selected over rival bidders through a competitive process. 
 The video was produced by Think Big Work Small of Fairfield, Calif., a provider of online video marketing services for mortgage loan officers and real estate agents. 
 The president of the company, Bill Hillestad, said it made the video because ''a housing recovery is impossible as long as there are these artificial forces dragging down home prices.'' He said the F.D.I.C.'s statement did nothing to reassure him. 
 ''They've created a huge, sweetheart deal for OneWest -- in which OneWest has every incentive to go out and sell homes way below market value,'' he said. 
 The video's criticism centers on the F.D.I.C.'s agreement to share in future losses OneWest might experience as a result of defaults among the loans it bought.
 The F.D.I.C. began using so-called loss-sharing in 1991, as part of its response to the savings-and-loan crisis. Officials say the program makes it easier to sell troubled assets without having to offer enormous liquidity and risk discounts. 
 Loss-sharing also prevents the F.D.I.C. from having to hire staff to manage the loans of failed banks, said Andrew C. Hove Jr., who was deputy chairman of the agency from 1990 to 2001. 
 ''When it all washes out, the cost to the F.D.I.C., and consequently to the banks that pay the premiums, is less than if the F.D.I.C. took the loans and worked the loans themselves,'' he said. Even so, the video suggests that loss-sharing could put taxpayers on the hook for future losses -- a claim the F.D.I.C. hotly disputes. 
 ''Here are the facts: OneWest has not been paid one penny by the F.D.I.C. in loss-share claims,'' Mr. Gray said in his statement. ''The loss-share agreement is limited to 7 percent of the total assets that OneWest services, and OneWest must first take more than $2.5 billion in losses before it can make a loss-share claim on owned assets.''
 Under the terms of the sale, OneWest must negotiate loan modifications with homeowners if the recovery on the loan is determined to be higher than the recovery from a short sale or foreclosure. And loss-share coverage ''cannot be factored'' into that determination, the F.D.I.C. said. But OneWest has, in fact, been accused in some cases of doing all it can to avoid modifications, which involve reducing the interest rate, extending the loan term or forgiving part of the principal amount owed. 
 A judge in Riverhead, N.Y., went so far as to cancel a Long Island couple's loan obligation in November, saying OneWest, which was the loan servicer, had failed to cooperate in efforts to avoid foreclosure and calling the bank's actions ''harsh, repugnant, shocking and repulsive.'' 
 The video picks up this theme, stating, ''The next time you ask yourself why is it so hard to get a loan modification, the answer is because there's too much money to be made with short sales and foreclosures.''
 The F.D.I.C. has been sensitive to such criticism. Last September, the agency's chairwoman, Sheila C. Bair, urged its loss-share partners to ''consider'' temporary forbearance plans for loans in which the primary cause for default was unemployment, or underemployment, on the part of the homeowner.
 OneWest announced in late December that it would suspend foreclosure and eviction proceedings over the holidays, and create a $10 million charity to support community development. The bank declined to comment for this article. 
 An updated version of the video was available late Sunday after the original clip was removed from YouTube earlier. Whatever the accuracy of the video's claims, its effect has been felt. 
 ''A friend who had seen it sent it to me and wanted my reaction to it,'' said Mr. Hove, the former deputy chairman, who is now retired in Lincoln, Neb. ''They really have a lot of inaccuracies in this video.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET VIDEO (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); ONEWEST BANK FSB (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (85%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010



403 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Inviting In A Brash Outsider

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; http://twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
Visit CNN.com these days and you might come across a video about Liberia in which a regular-looking guy, about as far from a dashing foreign correspondent as you can get, is walking through a swamp and interviewing a Liberian warlord named General Butt Naked. (He's called that because he leads his fighters wearing nothing more than a bad attitude.)
 ''Most of our boys, they would drain the blood from an innocent child and then drink it before going into battle,'' the general says. ''So you kill the child and then drink the blood?'' the reporter, Shane Smith asks. ''Yes,'' says the general. Following a link in the video will lead to a tour of a fetid red-light district and a shot of a young soldier holding a human heart aloft before eating it. 
 But even more surprising than this dark, scary content is finding it on a mainstream media site. The Liberia pieces are supplied through a partnership with VBS.tv, the video arm of Vice, the Brooklyn magazine better known for pictures of young topless women and articles on drug use (the February issue combines those interests in a photo spread called ''THC and A''). 
 None of that is enough to scare away big companies like CNN, Dell and Nike, all of which have entered partnerships to capitalize on Vice's brand of hipster insouciance.
 Last Tuesday night, there was a semiannual meeting for the Vice tribe. The company has grown to 560 employees in 30 countries, with 2,500 freelancers who are mostly paid in hipster cred. This success has created some dissonance for a crew of raconteurs who have spent much of their lives laughing at the stiffs who live pointless lives in dumb jobs defined by their next PowerPoint presentations. 
 Yet there they were, Shane Smith, one of the company's founders, and the creative director Eddy Moretti clicking on the next slide at their corporate event in a bar on 6th Street in the Williamsburg area of Brooklyn, the hippest street in the hottest neighborhood in the coolest borough ... well, you get the idea. 
 Vice magazine claims a global circulation to a select 1.2 million people in 26 countries, distributed free, but not freely, with a very select audience. Its Web site, Viceland.com, has 2.1 million unique visitors a month, according to Google Analytics, and its video site has 4.1 million visitors a month. 
 Vice has a seven-year-old music label with sales of two million albums in the United States, including music by the Streets, Death From Above, and the Stills. Its in-house ad agency, Virtue (get it?) has dozens of clients, including Red Bull and Vodafone. The company has produced 10 books and four feature films, as well.
 ''We are not on the outside anymore. For the longest time, we have been in the periphery, we couldn't get the meetings, but now I like to say that we are perfectly positioned,'' Mr. Smith told his audience. ''But I don't want us to get hot and die.'' 
 The Vice ethos is best captured by a book collecting the best of the magazine's writing over the years called ''News, Nudity & Nonsense.'' But there is something bigger at work here, a hell-bent libertarianism and cultural literacy that brings to mind Playboy in its prime, when people came for the pictures, but stayed for the articles. 
 The magazine, created by welfare scammers in 1994 in Montreal before moving to New York in 1999, started as a thinking man's lad magazine -- the co-founder Suroosh Alvi once said that Vice did ''stupid in a smart way, and smart in a stupid way.'' Since then, it has gradually morphed into a global brand that confers status and cool on anyone associated with it.
 ''We have been doing business with those guys for a couple of years,'' said Michael Tatelman, vice president for sales and marketing at Dell. Vice came up with a twist on custom publishing called Motherboard, a tech and culture site that relies on branding as opposed to banner ads. ''As we look at outreach to Gen X and Gen Y, they have managed to build out a brand that is more than a fad, one that authentically connects with a young audience that is steeped in technology.''
 The economic downturn has been brutal for almost all media companies, but Mr. Alvi argues that it has been good for Vice's ad business. ''If everything was going along tickety-boo, the big companies would still be giving all their money to the agencies. As it is, we can bypass agencies with subversive ideas and content, and sort of be the last man standing.''
 It was the creation of an online network called VBS.tv in 2007 that now threatens to bring the nifty and naughty Vice aesthetic to the world at large. Spike Jonze, the director of ''Where the Wild Things Are,'' among other films, is the creative director at VBS, and the nascent digital network has moved beyond skateboards and fashion into serious reporting from places like Liberia, Bulgaria, Iraq and North Korea. 
 The partnership with CNN.com includes some pretty rugged, pretty wonderful television work from VBS. A 12-minute report now showing features Mr. Smith, who bribed his way into North Korea and surreptitiously made a 14-part documentary there. That dangerous work is of a piece with VBS's other videos, which include quality time in Pakistani gun markets, a stroll with Liberian warlords, and a piece about hunting radioactively contaminated boars with machine guns at the site of the Chernobyl disaster.
 ''I can't talk about shoes anymore. I don't care about them,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Besides, I got to know Spike and while I spent 10 years partying, he was doing important things, really great work. And he was the one who told me that we should start filming some of these big stories.''
 Mr. Jonze said VBS had freedoms that larger outlets don't enjoy. ''It is a small media company that can go off and do what it wants,'' he said. ''We can just do things that we are interested in, and we don't have to pretend to be objective or have some angle on what we are looking at.''
 For CNN, the lack of convention is part of what drew the big media company to the little one.
 ''They have an unvarnished way of telling stories,'' said K. C. Estenson, general manager of CNN.com. ''They represent an audience that sometimes feels disenfranchised by mainstream media, one that has the impression that CNN doesn't align with their interests, and bring them in. We very much like what they are doing as a partner.''
 Media brands have historically used television to hack their way into the consciousness, but Vice is using the Web's much cheaper economics to similar ends. After laying out all the various new initiatives at the company last Tuesday night, including a global music site built on social media, Mr. Smith set aside modesty and profanity for a brief moment. 
 ''We are building out the next MTV,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); FILM (73%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010



404 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Scratch-Off Hopes Come in a New Aesthetic: Basic Black

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
As an advertising executive, Leo Mamorsky has promoted instant scratch-off tickets for two decades. But last spring, when New York's lottery commissioner requested a campaign for a sleek, jet black $5 ticket, the ad man found himself at a loss. 
 ''This was the first time ever they've designed a ticket such as this,'' Mr. Mamorsky recalled the other day from his office on Madison Avenue. 
 Scratch-off games often resemble pinball machines and billboards for used-car dealerships: cluttered, loud, peppered with explosions, stars or bulbous bags of cash.
 But Mr. Mamorsky was dealing with something entirely removed from the scratch-off status quo. This $5 ticket featured cursive script, a matte-on-gloss finish and a faux-engraved border that evoked upscale stationery. The name: New York Lottery Black.
 ''People don't think of the lottery in this way,'' Mr. Mamorsky said.
 That was by design. As scratch-off ticket sales have dwindled in the economic downturn and in the expanding buffet of lottery games, state lottery officials decided to take a chance on a new concept. 
 ''It became increasingly difficult to figure out how to break through the clutter,'' Gordon Medenica, the director of the New York Lottery, said in a telephone interview. ''Years ago we talked about doing a plain black ticket. It struck me as an interesting idea.''
 Against the advice of vendors and his own sales staff, Mr. Medenica pushed ahead with a plainer, more understated design by an in-house team. Not only did he eschew the typical ticket aesthetic, but he also strayed from using green or blue, colors that traditionally sell well for the agency. There were also concerns that a dark ticket would be lost amid the ''waterfall cascade,'' industry lingo for the rolled-up ticket displays that often sit near cashiers at gas stations and corner stores. 
 But amid a sea of flashy, cartoonish designs, Mr. Medenica believed that simple black would stand out. ''Conspicuous consumption is a little out of style, but the whole notion of understated elegance continues to be in style,'' he said.
 The finished product features gold detail, a look borrowed from the 1970s Lotus Formula 1 race cars that Mr. Medenica once idolized. ''The black American Express card, Johnny Walker Black: These were all the images we were trying to get in our mind,'' he said
 By early fall, when the lottery began mailing 10.1 million tickets to stores, expectations were low. It was considered more of an experiment in the scratch-off medium than a potential rainmaker. Enter Mr. Mamorsky, the advertising executive. 
 ''We were having fun with the fact that it was black,'' said Mr. Mamorsky, who works at DDB Omnicom. Working with a $1.3 million budget, less than half of a typical lottery campaign, he designed a series of posters featuring a supersize lottery ticket -- smoky, mysterious, obsidian -- resting comfortably on a silver platter held by a white-gloved hand. ''New York Lottery: Now Available in Black,'' the copy coos. A separate ad beckons, ''Acquire one today.''
 ''The whole imagery in advertising of nightlife, black limos, the black Escalades, there's a degree of allure and sexiness attached to that,'' Mr. Mamorsky said. 
 The last of the tickets have now been distributed to vendors. Only one other $5 ticket in the state has sold as quickly. As of last week, one of the four $1 million jackpots (chance of winning: 1 in 2,646,000) had not yet been claimed.
 Is there anything odd about treating a lottery ticket as a luxury item? ''Winning a million dollars is a very upscale experience, that's for sure,'' Mr. Medenica said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New York Lottery mailed 10.1 million tickets to stores. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FORMULA ONE RACING (75%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); RETAILERS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); USED CAR DEALERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010



405 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Not Yet Rivals, Gillibrand and Ford Wage Shadow Attack Campaigns

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
ALBANY -- At times, it seems that Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand and her potential rival in the Democratic primary, former Representative Harold E. Ford Jr., have two different relationships. 
 There is the gracious, even warm one they have when they are in the same room. Then there is the frosty and frequently nasty one they have when they are not. 
 Sunday was no exception. During a dinner for black and Puerto Rican lawmakers here, Ms. Gillibrand walked around a crowded table to tap Mr. Ford on the shoulder and greet him. ''Welcome,'' she whispered into his ear, clasping his hand. ''Good to see you.'' Mr. Ford wrapped his arm around Ms. Gillibrand's shoulder and thanked her. 
 Just a few hours earlier, however, aides to Ms. Gillibrand released a testy statement mocking Mr. Ford's performance Sunday on NBC's ''Meet the Press.'' 
 ''Ford evades three questions,'' it said. ''Why should New Yorkers wait to hear the truth?''
 Aides to Mr. Ford instantly fired back: ''They will stop at nothing,'' he wrote in his own statement, clearly aimed at Ms. Gillibrand, ''to try and stop me -- or any Democrat for that matter -- from running.''
 It was a revealing exchange. Since Mr. Ford, who was elected to Congress from Memphis in 1996, acknowledged several weeks ago that he was seriously weighing a bid to unseat Mr. Gillibrand, he has said he bears ''no ill will'' toward her. She has said she ''welcomes'' his challenge, and has largely refrained from abrasive attacks on him, sticking to polite questions about his record. 
 But they have authorized their campaign operatives to take a far less polite approach. Over the last few weeks, in what has amounted to a daily shadow campaign, they have traded increasingly bruising statements to the news media, giving New Yorkers an early glimpse of what a Ford-Gillibrand Senate contest would look like.
 At the gathering on Sunday, Ms. Gillibrand highlighted her travels to all 62 counties in the state, saying that she had observed a deeply uneven economic recovery. ''We are in our desert moment,'' she said. ''We are in this struggle.''
 Mr. Ford emphasized voters' unrest, telling the mostly Democratic audience: ''The nation is not sure of us. They are not sure we speak for them.'' And he seemed to draw parallels between efforts to keep him out of a Congressional race in Memphis in the 1990s, and similar attempts to dissuade him from running for Senate in New York.
 At times, the candidates themselves have dabbled in the schoolyard style taunting. Mocking what he regards as her overly close relationship with New York's senior senator, Charles E. Schumer, Mr. Ford compared Ms. Gillibrand to a parakeet during a radio interview recently. On Twitter, Ms. Gillibrand retorted that she ''wouldn't let my 6-year-old to engage in this kind of name-calling. And HF thinks he should be senator?''
 Soon enough, though, Ms. Gillibrand engaged in her own form of name-calling. In a play on the practice of identifying lawmakers by party label and home state, her campaign created the label ''I-Merrill Lynch,'' and placed it after Mr. Ford's name in statements to the news media, to suggest he is an independent, rather than a Democrat, and that he represented his Wall Street employer, rather than New Yorkers. 
 In his own statements to the media, Mr. Ford has dubbed Ms. Gillibrand ''the unelected senator'' and ''tobacco lawyer,'' a reference to the work she did for clients as a corporate lawyer.
 ''Shocking,'' read the headline in a recent Gillibrand press release. Mr. Ford, it stated, would pass the Republican National Committee's ''purity test'' for candidates and it noted that Mr. Ford calls the Republican Party chairman, Michael Steele, ''a friend.''
 Ms. Gillibrand's latest tack: demanding that Mr. Ford disclose the size of the bonus he was paid as a vice chairman at Merrill Lynch, where payouts to executives before its merger with Bank of America are the subject of several investigations. She also asked him to explain whether he had paid New York income taxes since moving to the state from Tennessee in 2006. 
 On Sunday, Mr. Ford addressed both questions on ''Meet the Press'' (though not, apparently, to Ms. Gillibrand's satisfaction). He said he would promptly make his income public if he became a candidate. Asked if he had filed partial tax returns for the year when he split his time between Tennessee and New York, Mr. Ford said: ''Absolutely. Paid taxes on all New York income in the last two years.'' 
 He said he and his wife would file their tax returns as New York residents for 2009. 
 After Ms. Gillibrand's campaign criticized his answers on ''Meet the Press,'' Mr. Ford (through an indignant prepared statement) said that the inquiries about his taxes were part of an ''endless effort to distract New Yorkers from the fact that New York politicians aren't focused on their jobs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Harold E. Ford Jr. and Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand greeted each other briefly at a dinner in Albany on Sunday. They are cordial in person, but their news statements often have a nasty tone.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (50%)

PERSON: KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010



406 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Despite Budgets, Some Newsrooms Persist in Costly Fight for Records

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
Last fall Hearst, the big media company that owns newspapers, magazines and television stations, filed a lawsuit against the Texas governor's office, seeking access to a clemency report in the case of Cameron Todd Willingham, who was executed in 2004 but whose guilt is now in doubt.
 It is the sort of case -- Mr. Willingham may have been innocent, but there is no way of saving him now -- that one might not expect to be taken up by a news organization amid a wrenching economic downturn that has forced a trimming of journalistic resources across the industry.
 Indeed, as many companies have cut newsroom budgets they are also scaling back on another of their civic duties: legal battles to gain access to government information. 
 But while many regional newspapers are choosing not to spend money on lawyers -- or are asking them to work pro bono -- another trend has developed that paints an opposite story, say press advocates and First Amendment lawyers. 
 Some big companies, like Hearst and The Associated Press, have been quietly ramping up their legal efforts, by doing more of the work in-house -- and saving costs by not hiring outside lawyers -- and being more aggressive in states where they can recoup legal fees and at the federal level, which also allows plaintiffs in such access cases to sue for legal fees when they win. 
 At Hearst, the company's top lawyer says it has never had more First Amendment lawsuits in courtrooms around the country than it does now.
 ''I think we'd be the only media company that would say that we're at an all-time high with the number of access cases we're bringing,'' said Eve Burton, vice president and general counsel at Hearst. Ms. Burton said part of the reason for being more aggressive was because ''the more access work we do, the less libel suits we have.''
 At The A.P., a cooperative owned by its member newspapers, in-house lawyers say they are becoming more aggressive on a number of fronts. In 2009, the agency was party to 40 lawsuits, moderately up from four years ago, when the number of lawsuits was in the low 30s, according to Dave Tomlin, associate general counsel for The A.P. 
 But The A.P. has been vastly more assertive in appealing denied Freedom of Information Act, or F.O.I.A., requests from the federal government under the Obama administration, which came to power promising to operate a more open government and alter what some media lawyers complained was a trend toward more government secrecy in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. 
 ''After 9/11, I sensed there was an element of defeatism around government secrecy,'' said Mr. Tomlin, adding that news organizations were often not forceful in filing appeals of denied information requests. 
 On appeals, The A.P., which last year hired a new in-house lawyer, Karen Kaiser, will send documents, sometimes just a letter, that often resemble full legal briefs to agencies being tight with information. ''We give them a taste of what a lawsuit looks like,'' Mr. Tomlin said. 
 Last year, according to Ms. Kaiser, The A.P. appealed over 40 denied F.O.I.A. requests, and 28 have been resolved, 24 of them successfully. ''The decision was made to be more aggressive because we believed it was the only way to force agencies to comply with the law,'' she said.
 In one case last year, The A.P. sought appointment calendars and schedules for the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, as well as correspondence between Mr. Geithner and Wall Street chief executives. 
 After seven months of back-and-forth discussions, Ms. Kaiser drafted a complaint that she was prepared to file in federal court in New York. With the threat of a lawsuit, the Treasury Department released the documents. 
 Another case involved data from the Transportation Department that The A.P. had requested about the cash-for-clunkers program. After four months, The A.P. filed an appeal, and the department relented. The data was released -- 13,000 pages' worth -- on the Web.
 Indeed, over the last year the emphasis in such work has shifted away from the national security arena and toward the financial world, particularly government agencies that have been involved in the bailouts of the banking and auto industries. Bloomberg L.P., for instance, is involved in a lawsuit with the Federal Reserve over records related to the financial bailout. 
 The New York Times also says that it has not backed away from its legal efforts, despite the financial pressures afflicting the industry. 
 ''The Times has initiated and pursued F.O.I.A. cases as much as ever, particularly when government stonewalls us on newsworthy issues and flouts its F.O.I.A. obligations,'' said George H. Freeman, assistant general counsel at The New York Times. ''In fact, just last year we created a fellowship position whose main priority is to assist our reporters on litigating F.O.I.A. cases.''
 Ms. Burton, at Hearst, said the company had 18 litigations under way -- its most ever -- but perhaps the most prominent relates to the death penalty case in Texas, where Hearst owns The Houston Chronicle. 
 The case, which centers on the 2004 execution of Mr. Willingham, who was convicted of setting a fire in 1991 that killed his three children, has also heartened those who work on behalf of inmates with credible claims of innocence. 
 These people, lawyers and activists, have lamented the deep cuts in newsrooms across the industry, saying they have for years relied on the work of investigative reporters to spotlight judicial injustices.
 ''It is indispensable to us that The Chronicle and the Hearst publications are actually bringing this lawsuit,'' said Barry C. Scheck, the co-founder of the Innocence Project in New York, which is affiliated with the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law and has been involved in the Willingham case. ''We don't have the time or the resources.''
 And he added, ''There is the whole watchdog element to what Hearst is doing in this case.''
 The Willingham story has been furthered not just by Hearst's legal work, but also by hefty journalistic resources.
 Hearst's lawsuit came after an exhaustive 16,000-word article in The New Yorker, by David Grann, that stitched together an argument for why the science behind Mr. Willingham's arson conviction was deeply flawed. The case has become a cause celebre for death penalty activists who for years have been searching for cases that prove an innocent person has been executed. 
 While this case would not be the elusive holy grail of their cause because there is no DNA evidence to test -- which could prove innocence with scientific certitude -- it nonetheless has been embraced by many because much of the arson science used to convict Mr. Willingham has been debunked by experts, in Mr. Grann's article and in others. 
 ''The Willingham story took months and a lot of money,'' said Mr. Grann. ''I had an employer who backed me to the hilt. It just demonstrated an enormous commitment on their part.''
 But the efforts of Hearst and The A.P. contrast with the state of affairs at a smaller level, where regional and local papers have largely shied away from aggressive litigation -- and, in many cases, aggressive investigative reporting. 
 ''I've got to say, there's a heck of a gap between the Hearsts of the world and all these community newspapers scattered across the country,'' said Charles Davis, the executive director of the National Freedom of Information Coalition at the University of Missouri.
 Lucy Dalglish, the executive director of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, recently returned from a meeting of media lawyers in Florida who tend to work as outside counsel for various newspapers. There, she heard a very different story than that coming from Hearst and A.P. 
 ''They are all saying access litigation is really struggling,'' said Ms. Dalglish. ''I think we're in trouble. I know we're in trouble.''
 Ms. Dalglish said that a frequent complaint among members of the media bar is that they increasingly are being asked by newspapers to work pro bono. 
 ''Newspapers say, when push comes to shove, we'll get lawyers to do it for free,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Karen Kaiser and Dave Tomlin work as lawyers at The Associated Press.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUCK ZOELLER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B1)
 Cameron Todd Willingham.(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); TRENDS (89%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRO BONO LAW (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (78%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); LIBEL & SLANDER (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (61%); TERRORISM (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (92%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010



407 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Pleads for Patience on Foreign Policy Goals at Forum With Islamic Nations

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: DOHA, Qatar 

 BODY:
Nine months after President Obama held out the promise of a ''new beginning'' for the United States and the Muslim world, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton came to this Persian Gulf emirate on Sunday to plead for patience, conceding that the Obama administration had not yet delivered on some of its signature foreign-policy goals.
 From the stalled Middle East peace process to the still-open prison at Guantanamo Bay, in Cuba, to the diplomatic deadlock with Iran over its nuclear program, Mrs. Clinton acknowledged a list of unfinished projects, which she said had sowed suspicion that the American commitment was ''insufficient or insincere.'' 
 ''I understand why people might be impatient,'' Mrs. Clinton said in an address to the U.S.-Islamic World Forum, a conference jointly sponsored by the Qatari government and the Brookings Institution. ''Building a stronger relationship cannot happen overnight or even in a year.''
 But Mrs. Clinton threw some of the onus for improving the atmosphere back on the Arab nations, saying they needed to assume more responsibility for helping jump-start peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, and for standing up against Iran's nuclear ambitions.
 ''President Obama's vision was not one of a single country seeking to write a new chapter on its own,'' Mrs. Clinton said of the president's speech last June at Cairo University. ''It was a call for all of us to take responsibility for retiring stereotypes and outdated views.''
 Some of those stereotypes were plainly on view at this elite conference, an assembly of 300 Muslim and Western government officials, businesspeople, scholars and religious figures.
 When Saad Eddin Ibrahim, an Egyptian social scientist and human rights advocate who was imprisoned from 2001 to 2003, rose to challenge Mrs. Clinton to take a tougher line with the Egyptian government over its repressive tactics, it bought a nervous chuckle from Qatar's prime minister, Sheik Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani, who was sharing the stage with the secretary.
 ''You know, I have enough problems with your government,'' the prime minister said to Mr. Ibrahim. He made a tongue-in-cheek show of disavowing Mr. Ibrahim's comments, saying ''the Americans could handle'' the backlash from an unhappy Egypt, but not a little neighbor like Qatar.
 Smiling, Mrs. Clinton said, ''We will take responsibility.''
 It was a lighthearted exchange in an otherwise solemn gathering that underscored how little has changed since Mr. Obama pledged to improve relations between the United States and the Muslim world. The Israelis and Palestinians have not moved toward talks, and after a year of overtures by Mr. Obama, Iran has not softened its position.
 Mrs. Clinton said Mr. Obama had made extraordinary efforts, even sending messages to the Iranian leadership -- an apparent confirmation of media reports last year that the president had written letters to Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, to which he did not reply.
 While Mrs. Clinton did not make specific requests of Iran's neighbors, she said they needed to take an active role in helping curb the Tehran government. Given that she was a guest in a neighboring country with close commercial ties to Iran, she used unusually blunt language about the Iranian nuclear program, which Tehran insists is for peaceful energy purposes.
 She referred to Iran's ''pursuit of nuclear weapons'' without any caveats, and said, ''we welcome any meaningful engagement, but we don't want to be engaging while they're building their bomb.''
 Mrs. Clinton also expressed guarded optimism that China, which has resisted tougher United Nations sanctions against Iran because of its extensive commercial ties, might be more amenable to sanctions.
 ''I think the weight is maybe beginning to move toward not wanting to either be isolated or inadvertently contributing to instability that would undermine their economic interests,'' she said.
 Qatar is one of four Persian Gulf countries, along with the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Kuwait, that have accepted missile-defense batteries, according to American military officials. The batteries are designed to shoot down short-range Iranian missiles.
 For his part, Sheik Jassim al-Thani appealed to the United States to continue seeking direct dialogue with Iran. ''If there is a nuclear race in the region, it will be an unhealthy race for all of us,'' he said.
 He offered support for the latest American initiative in the Middle East: proximity talks between the Israelis and the Palestinians, in which the Obama administration's special envoy, George J. Mitchell, would carry messages back and forth between the two. 
 The administration has been regrouping in the region since its first strategy -- reciprocal steps by Israel on settlements and Arab nations on diplomatic and trade ties -- made no progress. Analysts said that by demanding, and then appearing to back off from, a total freeze in Israeli settlement construction, the administration hurt its credibility with Arab leaders.
 ''I know people are disappointed that we have not yet achieved a breakthrough,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''The president, Senator Mitchell and I are also disappointed.'' But she said Mr. Obama's resolve had not wavered.
 In a meeting with Mrs. Clinton, Qatar's emir, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, pushed the United States to do more to alleviate the suffering in Gaza. She, in turn, raised the issue of reopening Israel's trade office here, which Qatar had closed after the military strikes on Gaza.
 ''The principle of shared responsibility extends to Israel's Arab neighbors, as well as countries around the world,'' she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRISONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (77%) INDIAN OCEAN (88%) UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (94%); QATAR (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GULF STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CUBA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010



408 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: James as a Knick Won't Help MSG

BYLINE: By ROLFE WINKLER and EDWARD HADAS

 BODY:
The formidable skills of LeBron James probably won't reach the stock market. Speculation is rampant he could soon be headed to the New York Knicks basketball team, whose owner is now trading on the Nasdaq. 
 The listing followed a spinoff of Madison Square Garden Inc. from the cable operator Cablevision to its shareholders last week. MSG is a collection of trophy assets but doesn't seem to be a gold-plated investment.
 In addition to the Knicks, MSG owns the New York Rangers hockey team, the Madison Square Garden arena, Radio City Music Hall and some lesser-known teams and theaters. But the teams lose money, and the entertainment division, home to the Rockettes Christmas show, only broke even last year. The real value is in MSG's two regional sports networks, where the Knicks and Rangers are the primary draw. 
 The shares look fully priced already, after rising to $19.76, or 8.5 percent, in their first days of trading. Analysts expect MSG to generate about $95 million in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, for 2009. Add $30 million from a new broadcast deal with Cablevision, a better year for the Rockettes, other television-contract renewals and narrower losses for the teams, and MSG might just have Ebitda earnings of $160 million in 2010, as some analysts forecast. Put that on a multiple of 10, the same as its closest peers, and you get an optimistic enterprise value of $1.6 billion.
 Forget the cash on MSG's books -- it will be chewed up in an estimated $800 million renovation of the Garden -- and that equates to $21 a share.
 That price overlooks fresh competition and potential corporate governance costs. The Barclays Center in Brooklyn, where the New Jersey Nets are expected to play, is to open in 2012. And the Dolan family, which controls Cablevision, still has significant sway at MSG. Conflicts are already apparent: The Dolans won't let Cablevision's rivals carry the MSG network's high-definition feed.
 And then there's the LeBron factor. His presence will benefit fans more than investors. More wins for the Knicks probably will not be enough to offset the cost of his contract. So by all means buy a courtside seat at the Garden -- but sell MSG shares.
 Sovereign Risks
 Investors are not quite convinced that Greece is in the clear. The document of support from the European Union was a little vague, and the Greek government is still on probation. But the momentum has shifted from a growing wave of panic to a gradual spread of confidence across the euro zone.
 The relief will be particularly great in Portugal and Spain, where the governments have been trying hard to keep bond buyers loyal and speculators away. Heavy borrowers in the euro zone are still paying a high price for their financing, but the Greek rescue means the money is likely to be there.
 Elsewhere, the ingredients are in place for a government debt drama of historic proportions. The United States and Britain are still running deficits at double-digit percentages of gross domestic product. Like Greece, both have traditions of low savings rates and have been selling a substantial portion of their government debt to foreigners.
 As yet, there has been hardly any problem. Yields on government debt are low and both countries still enjoy the highest bond ratings. As long as that remains the case, the huge borrowing can continue. But at some point, lenders may demand a clear Greek-style path to debt reduction.
 That would require a politically challenging transition for these spendthrift governments. Morgan Stanley economists say that for the United States to stabilize the ratio of government debt to gross domestic product at 60 percent, it would need to run an annual budget surplus of 1 percent of G.D.P. That would require a shift of 12 percent of gross domestic product.
 The Greeks might be able to manage such a shift, probably with European Union support. But unless the United States and Britain learn to match expenses with revenue, sovereign debts will remain a weight on the world economy.
 But this does not mean defaults are inevitable. Unlike Greece, the United States and Britain have their own currencies, so they can use inflation to reduce the real burden of their debts.
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LeBron James is one of the biggest stars in the National Basketball Association.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON JOSEFCZYK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EBITDA (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); ICE HOCKEY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); BONDS (72%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (63%)

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CO (72%); NEW YORK RANGERS HOCKEY CLUB (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); NEW YORK RANGERS (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (59%)

TICKER: MSG (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (72%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (72%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (57%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (57%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (85%); PORTUGAL (71%); SPAIN (70%); GREECE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010



409 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Taking Texas Primary Ever Further to the Right

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
Some days it is hard to be a neophyte far-right candidate in a governor's race, even in Texas, where Republicans vying for the party's nomination try to outdo one another to prove their conservative credentials.
 Debra Medina found that out when she appeared on Glenn Beck's radio show last week and fumbled a question about whether she agreed with conspiracy theorists who think the Bush administration was involved in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
 ''I think some very good questions have been raised in that regard,'' she said. ''There's some very good arguments, and I think the American people have not seen all the evidence there.''
 Mr. Beck, an admirer of Gov. Rick Perry, ridiculed her right away, saying, ''I think I can write her off the list.'' 
 Within hours, Mr. Perry and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, his heavyweight Republican opponent in the primary race, pounced on Ms. Medina's response. The governor said she had insulted Americans who lost loved ones on that day. The senator called her statement an affront to United States soldiers fighting Al Qaeda. 
 Ms. Medina, 47, spent the day trying to control the damage. In interview after interview, she insisted that she, too, believed that Islamic terrorists had brought down the twin towers and that the United States government had had nothing to do with it. She had been ambushed by Mr. Beck and her opponents, she said.
 ''This is war,'' she said, referring to the primary. ''They don't shoot at you until you are over the target. We are over the target.''
 From the obscurity of rural Wharton County, about 60 miles southwest of Houston, Ms. Medina, a former nurse who owns a medical billing business, has become a wild card in the race for the Republican nomination. She is a factor because the primary usually attracts a low turnout, and historically its outcome is decided by about 600,000 of the most conservative voters in the state. 
 Recent polls have shown that Ms. Medina's support among likely primary voters is in the double digits, and some surveys have her close to edging out Ms. Hutchison for second place. 
 There is a growing belief among Republican strategists here that if Ms. Medina can control the damage from Thursday's radio gaffe, she might force a runoff. Her opponents are finding it harder to ignore her. Even her detractors acknowledged that she performed well in two televised debates, mounting fierce attacks on Mr. Perry and staking out positions to his right -- no easy feat, because he is widely considered to be among the nation's most conservative governors.
 ''She has proven to be a more formidable candidate than many thought,'' said Cal Jillson, a political scientist at Southern Methodist University. ''She showed well in the debates, because Perry and Hutchison were squabbling like schoolchildren.''
 Ms. Medina comes across as an ideologue, not a political pragmatist. On the stump, she talks a lot about freedom, and she says that to her, freedom rests on private ownership of property and the right to bear arms. 
 ''Are we going to elect people that understand freedom, or are they, in their zeal to protect us, going to destroy those very pillars of freedom?'' she asks.
 Ms. Medina has started to attract followers with her campaign promise to abolish property taxes, which she regards as an ''assault on liberty,'' and replace them with a sales tax. 
 Gun enthusiasts love her opposition to all federal gun laws. She won many over when she lamented in a recent debate that current law did not allow her to take her pistol, which she keeps in a zippered case in her car, into the grocery store. 
 Social conservatives have praised her firm opposition to abortion, an issue on which Ms. Hutchison takes a nuanced stand. People angry about illegal immigration have rallied to her cry to deploy the Texas National Guard along the border with Mexico. Mr. Perry has adopted a less hard-line approach. He opposes building border walls and efforts to cut illegal immigrants off from public education as too divisive. 
 Ms. Medina also appeals to state's rights advocates who long to shift power from Washington to state legislatures. A leitmotif in her speeches is the idea that the federal government has usurped power from the states and that Texas should be able to nullify federal laws and regulations it deems unconstitutional. Her first target would be the Environmental Protection Agency, she says. 
 ''We will tell the E.P.A., 'You have no authority here,' '' she told the Fort Bend County Chamber of Commerce on Thursday. 
 Mostly, however, Ms. Medina has been riding a wave of anger among conservatives who feel the federal government is spending too much to bail out banks and jump-start the economy. 
 Like Ross Perot in the 1992 presidential race, Ms. Medina has touched a nerve in an anxious electorate looking for an alternative to the status quo. She has become the right-wing, anti-establishment candidate, calling for term limits and portraying herself in her advertisements as an ordinary Texas resident. 
 ''I have not professed to be a polished politician,'' she said in an interview. ''Polished answers are not necessarily what you are going to get from me.''
 On the hustings last week, Ms. Medina took great pains to avoid being labeled out of touch, declaring to one audience after her remarks about Sept. 11 were broadcast, ''I am not a flake.'' 
 While she supports some libertarian ideas and has been a longtime supporter of Representative Ron Paul, the Texas libertarian, she hastens to point out that she is not in favor of legalizing drugs. She is also quick to defend her plan to replace property taxes with a sales tax as a practical one, though it requires sales taxes of up to 15 percent.
 ''I am not a crazy person,'' she said. ''I know we have to fund government.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Debra Medina, right, Gov. Rick Perry and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison at a debate last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LM OTERO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CONSPIRACY (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); AL-QAEDA (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); RELIGION (70%); NURSES & NURSING (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (89%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (78%); GLENN BECK (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010



410 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Obama Stays Course, But the Winds Change

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
In an interview, Barack Obama declared: ''I am a pro-growth, free market guy. I love the market. I think it is the best invention to allocate resources and produce enormous prosperity for America or the world that's ever been designed.''
 That was in June 2008, as Senator Obama headed toward the Democratic presidential nomination. In tone, those remarks matched President Obama's statement last week that he would not ''begrudge'' multimillion-dollar bonuses to ''savvy'' executives at Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase. 
 At times in the 20 intervening months, Mr. Obama's rhetoric has shifted. Those shifts have attracted criticism from conservatives, Wall Street executives or his own liberal base.
 But the record indicates that those shifts pale compared with the underlying constancy in Mr. Obama's stated goals through huge events: the Wall Street crisis and subsequent bailout, his election, recovery from recession and rising joblessness, legislative gains and electoral losses.
 ''When you're dealing with an economic crisis, it's hard to achieve elegant communications,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's top strategist. Yet, Mr. Axelrod said, ''when people ask me what is the most salient quality I have seen in Obama, the one that strikes me the most is his consistency.'' 
 What has changed more profoundly is the reaction to Mr. Obama's agenda -- by independents seeking results, Republicans eyeing a comeback and Democrats fearing that their moment is slipping away.
 Bipartisan Tack
 In that June 2008 interview, Mr. Obama also said the market had ''gotten out of balance'' with the needs of average Americans. To right it, he called for new financial regulations and a ''long-term growth'' agenda for the economy, policies that guide his domestic agenda today: an overhaul of the health care system, new energy policy and higher education standards.
 Three months later, when the financial crisis threatened Wall Street, Mr. Obama repeated in another interview his commitment to that agenda. With Congress moving toward a $700 billion bailout, he argued, ''we can't simply do that and go back to business as usual.''
 When President-elect Obama began assembling his economic team, some Republicans and business leaders saw evidence of greater centrism. They found it in his appointment of advisers like Lawrence H. Summers, President Bill Clinton's Treasury secretary, as director of the National Economic Council. 
 In a third interview, in January 2009, President-elect Obama welcomed bipartisan cooperation and said, ''Republicans have a lot to offer'' on economic policy. Today, Mr. Obama has reason to assert that his agenda has in fact incorporated Republican approaches, even as he has failed to attract Republican political support.
 His health care plan, fighting for survival on Capitol Hill, is grounded in a requirement that individuals buy insurance coverage, creation of an ''exchange'' marketplace in which policies are sold and subsidies for those who cannot afford them. That resembles the plan enacted in Massachusetts by Gov. Mitt Romney, a possible Republican presidential contender in 2012.
 The hot-button provision of Mr. Obama's energy plan is a cap-and-trade system to limit carbon emissions in hopes of curbing climate change. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, embraced that concept in his 2008 presidential campaign. 
 Neel T. Kashkari, a top official in President George W. Bush's Treasury Department, said Mr. Obama's actions in administering the 2008 financial bailout were ''very consistent'' with how a Republican administration would have handled them. 
 Shifting Views
 The bailout itself, by linking public anger at Washington and Wall Street, has generated the strongest political winds of Mr. Obama's tenure. And they have bent the administration's approach and rhetoric.
 Some presidential advisers believe that Mr. Obama, famous for his cool demeanor, blew too hot when he denounced Wall Street bonuses as ''obscene'' in proposing a new tax on large financial institutions.
 Others believe that his softer comments about bonuses last week, while consistent with many of his past statements, were ill suited to his current imperatives in pushing for new financial regulations and drawing sharper contrasts with Republicans.
 Whatever the cause, public perceptions of Mr. Obama have indeed shifted in ways that go beyond simple erosion in his approval ratings.
 In a CNN poll last March, 58 percent called his policies ''just about right.'' Last month, the same question found that the proportion responding ''too liberal'' or ''not liberal enough'' had both increased, while the proportion responding ''just about right'' dropped to 42 percent.
 Mr. Obama's aides blame that shift largely on the hair-trigger reactions of Washington's political and media culture. The president has repeatedly challenged that culture's focus on short-term results, though it remains unclear whether he will succeed.
 ''Washington focuses on the next five minutes,'' said Anita Dunn, the former White House communications director. ''If he were to communicate one thing more clearly, it is that that's not what he's doing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama's stated goals have changed little. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BAILOUTS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (64%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (62%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (61%); HEALTH CARE (61%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); BILL CLINTON (73%); DAVID AXELROD (73%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010



411 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
A HOLIDAY WEEK Markets, government offices and many businesses are closed in the United States in observance of Presidents' Day (Monday). 
 Markets, banks, businesses and government offices are closed in China, Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea and Vietnam in observance of the Lunar New Year holidays (Monday and Tuesday). In China, Taiwan and Vietnam the closings last all week.
 ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include import prices for January, housing starts for January and industrial production for January (Wednesday); the Producer Price Index for January, the Conference Board's leading economic indicators for January and the Philadelphia Federal Reserve's manufacturing index (Thursday); and the Consumer Price Index for January (Friday).
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from Abercrombie & Fitch, Barclays, Kraft Foods, Merck, Qwest Communications,Waste Management and Whole Foods (Tuesday); Deere and Hewlett-Packard (Wednesday); CBS, Dell, DirecTV, Hormel Foods, Goodyear Tire and Rubber, MGM Mirage and Wal-Mart Stores (Thursday); and J.C. Penney (Friday).
 INDUSTRY EVENTS The Mobile World Congress takes place in Barcelona, Spain (Monday through Thursday).
 The International Toy Fair takes place in New York (through Wednesday).
 FED MINUTES The Federal Reserve releases minutes from its January meeting (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); PRODUCER PRICES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); IMPORT PRICES (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); HOUSING STARTS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); TOYS & GAMES (69%); TIRES (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (70%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (69%); GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (69%); CENTURYLINK INC (56%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (56%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (70%); AFT (FRA) (70%); MGM (NYSE) (69%); GT (SWX) (69%); GT (NASDAQ) (69%); GT (BRU) (69%); CTL (NYSE) (56%); WMT (NYSE) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (70%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (70%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (69%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (69%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (69%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (69%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (69%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (69%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (51%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); TAIWAN (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010



412 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: A Battered City Fears the End Of Housing Aid

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

DATELINE: ELKHART, Ind. 

 BODY:
Over the next six months, the federal government plans to wind down many of its emergency programs for housing. Then it will become clear if the market can function on its own.
 People here are pretty sure the answer will be no.
 President Obama has traveled twice to this beleaguered manufacturing city to spotlight the government's economic stimulus program. The employment picture here has indeed begun to improve over the last nine months.
 But Elkhart also symbolizes the failure of federal efforts to turn around the housing slump at the heart of the economic crisis. Housing in this community has become almost entirely dependent on a string of federal support programs, which are nonetheless failing to prevent a fall in prices and a rise in mortgage delinquencies. 
 More than one in 10 mortgage holders in Elkhart is seriously behind on payments. The median sales price has plunged to the level of a decade ago. Many homeowners owe more than their home is worth, freezing them in place for years. Foreclosures recently hit a record. 
 To the extent that the real estate market is functioning at all, people here say, it is doing so only because of the emergency programs, which have pushed down interest rates on mortgages and offered buyers a substantial tax credit. 
 Equally important is an expanded mortgage insurance program run by the Federal Housing Administration, which encourages private lenders to accept borrowers with small down payments. The government takes the risk of default.
 A few years ago, only one in 10 buyers in Elkhart used the housing agency program. Now about half do. Across the country, the agency has greatly expanded its reach so that it now insures six million mortgages.
 ''There has been all kinds of help for housing. I'm not unappreciative,'' said Barb Swartley, president of the Elkhart County Board of Realtors. ''But you can't turn real estate into a government-sponsored operation forever.''
 Many in Washington agree. With worries about the deficit intensifying, the government is eager to start withdrawing some of its support programs. 
 The first step could happen as early as next month, when the Federal Reserve has said it will end its trillion-dollar program to buy up mortgage securities. That program has driven mortgage interest rates to lows not seen since the 1950s.
 Yet it is uncertain whether the government can really pull back without sending housing markets into another tailspin. ''A rise in rates would kill us all by itself,'' Ms. Swartley said.
 The Obama administration has offered few ideas about reforming the housing market. Proposals for the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage holding companies taken over by the government at the height of the crisis, were supposed to be introduced with the president's budget this month. They were not.
 The government programs, however crucial, are distorting the market. The tax credit produced sales last fall, but some lenders here say it has troubling implications.
 ''People are buying to get that tax credit, to get some reserve money. They're saying, 'If something happens, I will have a little bit of money to fall back on,' '' said Denny Davis of Horizon Bank in Elkhart. ''That's not healthy.''
 The programs favor first-time buyers, who have the fewest resources to bring to a deal. Heather Stevens, a 23-year-old nurse here, is closing on a three-bedroom house this week. Since her loan was insured by the Federal Housing Administration, she had to put down only 3.5 percent of the $74,900 purchase price.
 ''It was a breeze to get approved,'' she said. 
 The sellers are covering her closing costs, which agents say is often the case here. That meant Ms. Stevens had to come up with only the $2,600 down payment, which still took all her savings. 
 But the best part is the $7,500 tax credit. She will use that to remodel the kitchen. ''If it wasn't for the credit, we would have waited to buy,'' said Ms. Stevens, who is getting married this year. 
 Buying houses with no money down was a feature of the latter stages of the housing bubble. It gave prices a final push into the stratosphere. But buyers with no equity were the first to abandon their properties as the market turned south.
 With housing prices stagnant, bolstering the market by again letting people buy with hardly any money down is viewed in some quarters as a bad bet. 
 Neil Barofsky, the special inspector general for the government's Troubled Asset Relief Program, wrote in his most recent report to Congress that ''the federal government's concerted efforts to support'' housing prices ''risk reinflating'' the bubble. 
 He noted one difference from the last bubble: taxpayers, rather than banks, are now directly at risk in these new mortgages.
 In Elkhart, the worries are less about the risks of doing too much and more about the perils of doing too little. If the Federal Reserve really ends its $1.25 trillion program of buying mortgage-backed securities, economists say, mortgage rates could rise as much as one percentage point. In recent weeks, rates on 30-year fixed mortgages have drifted below 5 percent. 
 The tax credit requires home buyers to make a deal by April 30, the middle of the prime spring selling season. 
 For now, the F.H.A. is modestly tightening the requirements on some of its programs, trying to strike a balance between stabilizing the market with qualified buyers and overwhelming it with unqualified borrowers.
 John Katalinich, chief lending officer at the Inova Federal Credit Union in Elkhart, says there is danger in letting buyers get into properties with so little at stake, but those risks are minimal compared to the alternative.
 ''If the government were not to continue the same level of support, it would be very detrimental, like cutting the legs off a wobbling child and expecting it to run a marathon,'' he said. ''It's very possible we'll still be at this level of need five years from now.''
 Elkhart, in the northeast corner of Indiana, became a symbol of distressed Middle America after Mr. Obama chose it as the place to introduce his stimulus plan last February. The region is a hub of recreational vehicle manufacturing, one of the first industries to falter in the recession. In less than a year, the unemployment rate tripled, peaking at 18.9 percent last March. 
 Mr. Obama returned in August to promote the effectiveness of the stimulus program and of government grants for the manufacture of battery-powered electric vehicles. Several companies have announced they are hiring. Unemployment in December was down to 14.8 percent. 
 No such improvement is visible with housing. In the last 18 months, the F.H.A increased its loans in Elkhart by 40 percent even as its defaults rose 174 percent. 
 As these troubled loans become foreclosures, the government takes over the property and tries to sell it. On Saturday, Gina Martin, an administrative assistant, examined a three-bedroom government house for sale southeast of Elkhart.
 In late 2003, the house sold for $115,000, but in these depressed times the government was willing to let it go for $75,000.
 Ms. Martin's agent, Dean Slabach, thought the government would eventually have to take a much lower bid, substantially increasing its loss. Most of the F.H.A. properties on the market in Elkhart carry notations like ''significant price reduction'' and ''all reasonable offers considered.''
 ''They'll end up selling this for $60,000 or less,'' Mr. Slabach said.
 But Ms. Martin, a 47-year-old renter who has approval for an F.H.A. loan, said she was not tempted at any price.
 ''We'll see what else is out there,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dean Slabach, a real estate agent, showing Gina Martin a house near Elkhart, Ind., that was taken over by the government.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAYMOND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A3) CHART: A Bleak Housing Market: While the employment picture in Elkhart, Ind., has begun to improve over the last year, the number of people falling behind on their mortgages has continued to rise.(Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
 First American CoreLogic)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MORTGAGE RATES (88%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (88%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (74%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (74%); FORECLOSURE (74%); TAX LAW (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%); HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010



413 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Worry at Stuyvesant Town As Foreclosure Draws Near

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The lenders at Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village are expected to begin an uncontested foreclosure action on Tuesday against the owner of Manhattan's largest residential complex, according to bankers and real estate executives.
 CWCapital, the company that is overseeing the complex on behalf of the owners of $3 billion in mortgages, plans to file the action in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, they said. The owner, a partnership of Tishman Speyer Properties and BlackRock Realty, announced last month that it would turn over the property after defaulting on a $16 million loan payment, rather than wage a battle for control.
 The foreclosure action is unlikely to immediately affect the 25,000 residents of the two sister complexes overlooking the East River, between 14th and 23rd Streets. But it marks the beginning of what promises to be a lengthy process in which the lenders will take control of the 80-acre complex and run it for an unspecified period before selling it to a new owner. Still, tenants of the 110 buildings are concerned that services and maintenance could deteriorate over time. 
 ''It is unfortunate that we find ourselves in this position,'' said Daniel R. Garodnick, a city councilman and lifelong resident. He added: ''Anything that moves this process toward an orderly restructuring will be in the tenants' interest. We most certainly don't want anyone gumming up the works.''
 CWCapital did not return calls requesting comment. On behalf of mortgage holders, it will have to pay a transfer tax of an estimated $100 million when it does take possession of the property.
 It often takes a year for a lender to foreclose. Real estate executives say the process could move more swiftly if the owners do not contest the action. But analysts warned that other Stuyvesant Town lenders, particularly those who gave secondary loans that might be rendered worthless by the foreclosure, could object, delaying any kind of resolution.
 Last week, CWCapital said it had hired Rose Associates as an adviser. Rose managed the 11,227 apartments in the complexes for three years before its sale in late 2006. Mr. Garodnick said CWCapital and Rose had agreed to work closely with tenants.
 The Stuyvesant Town foreclosure would come only weeks after a state judge ordered the foreclosure sale of Riverton Houses, a middle-class complex in Harlem. And analysts predict that more complexes bought with enormous loans during the real estate boom will also default.
 At Riverton, which like Stuyvesant Town was built by Metropolitan Life Insurance in the 1940s, the owner defaulted on a $225 million mortgage.
 During the boom, the average price of a Manhattan condominium soared above $1 million, and rents rose well ahead of inflation. Private equity firms and other speculators sought to take advantage of the seemingly unquenchable thirst for housing.
 Tishman Speyer and BlackRock bought Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village for $5.4 billion and raised another $900 million in equity to cover reserve funds for capital improvements, apartment renovations and interest payments. More than 70 percent of the apartments were rent regulated.
 Although the rent roll only covered a fraction of their loan payments, the partners expected to make a profit over time by replacing rent regulated residents with tenants paying much higher market rents.
 But they ran into trouble within two years as the process of converting the units to market rates proved slower than expected. Also, market rents fell sharply with the recession. And Tishman Speyer and BlackRock were forced to roll back rents when New York State's highest court ruled last fall that the partnership had improperly deregulated the rents on 4,400 apartments. The new owner is likely to inherit liability for about $215 million in rent rebates resulting from the ruling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); JUDGES (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); HOME PRICES (61%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%)

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (51%)

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



414 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: As Girls Become Women, Sports Pay Dividends

BYLINE: By TARA PARKER-POPE

 BODY:
Almost four decades after the federal education law called Title IX opened the door for girls to participate in high school and college athletics, a crucial question has remained unanswered: Do sports make a long-term difference in a woman's life?
 A large body of research shows that sports are associated with all sorts of benefits, like lower teenage pregnancy rates, better grades and higher self-esteem. But until now, no one has determined whether those improvements are a direct result of athletic participation. It may be that the type of girl who is attracted to sports already has the social, personal and physical qualities -- like ambition, strength and supportive parents -- that will help her succeed in life. 
 Now, separate studies from two economists offer some answers, providing the strongest evidence yet that team sports can result in lifelong improvements to educational, work and health prospects. At a time when the first lady, Michelle Obama, has begun a nationwide campaign to improve schoolchildren's health, the lessons from Title IX show that school-based fitness efforts can have lasting effects. 
 Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 required schools and colleges receiving federal money to provide the same opportunities for girls as they did for boys. Relatively few students, male or female, participate in intercollegiate sports. But the effects in high school were remarkable. Just six years after the enactment of Title IX, the percentage of girls playing team sports had jumped sixfold, to 25 percent from about 4 percent. 
 Most research on Title IX has looked at national trends in girls' sports. Betsey Stevenson, an economist at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, has taken it a step further, focusing on state-by-state variations. 
 ''I looked to see what it means to add sports to girls' lives,'' she said. ''How does it change things for them?''
 States with large boys' sports programs had to make bigger changes to achieve parity than states with smaller programs. Looking at the state-by-state statistics allowed Dr. Stevenson to narrow her focus, comparing differences in sports participation with differences in women's educational and work achievement.
 So her study untangles the effects of sports participation from other confounding factors -- school size, climate, social and personal differences among athletes -- and comes far closer to determining a cause and effect relationship between high school sports participation and achievement later in life.
 Using a complex analysis, Dr. Stevenson showed that increasing girls' sports participation had a direct effect on women's education and employment. She found that the changes set in motion by Title IX explained about 20 percent of the increase in women's education and about 40 percent of the rise in employment for 25-to-34-year-old women.
 ''It's not just that the people who are going to do well in life play sports, but that sports help people do better in life,'' she said, adding, ''While I only show this for girls, it's reasonable to believe it's true for boys as well.''
 Another question is whether Title IX has made a difference in women's long-term health. In a carefully conducted study, Robert Kaestner, an economics professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago, compared rates of obesity and physical activity of women who had been in high school in the 1970s -- as Title IX was taking effect -- with similar women from earlier years. Controlling the results for other influences, like age and changing diets, Dr. Kaestner was able to tease out the effects Title IX had on women's health. 
 He found that the increase in girls' athletic participation caused by Title IX was associated with a 7 percent lower risk of obesity 20 to 25 years later, when women were in their late 30s and early 40s. His article was published this month in the journal Evaluation Review. 
 Dr. Kaestner notes that while a 7 percent decline in obesity is modest, no other public health program can claim similar success. And other studies have shown that even a small drop in weight can lower risk for diabetes and other health problems.
 There is still room for improvement. Today about 1 in 3 high school girls play sports, compared with about half of all boys. And participation varies widely by state, according to Dr. Stevenson's research. Southern states like Alabama, Louisiana and Tennessee still have big gender gaps, while Northern states like Maine, Minnesota, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Vermont are closer to parity.
 ''While we have more girls than ever before, we still have far more boys playing sports than girls,'' said Nicole M. LaVoi, associate director of the Tucker Center for Research on Girls and Women in Sport at the University of Minnesota. ''The research clearly states that when anybody, boys and girls, are physically active, they can reap developmental and health benefits. But we haven't reached equality yet.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART BRADFORD)
 CHART: TEAM PLAYERS: Below, varsity sports participation rates for high school students in 2004. Students on more than one varsity team were counted once for each team. (Source: Contemporary Economic Policy) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); SPORTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); WOMEN (89%); CHILDREN (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); TRENDS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (56%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



415 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise in Europe, but Fall in Asia

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
European stocks rose on Monday, as mining companies climbed and earnings at Air Liquide beat estimates.
 The Rio Tinto Group led commodity producers higher as Credit Suisse and BofA-Merrill Lynch Global Research recommended the stock. Air Liquide, the world's biggest producer of industrial gases, gained 1.3 percent. 
 British Airways and Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana increased more than 2.5 percent after their plan for a deeper alliance with AMR's American Airlines won approval from antitrust regulators in the United States.
 The Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Index increased 0.4 percent, to 241.92. The gauge rose last week for the first time in a month as concerns about the economies of Greece, Spain and Portugal eased and as earnings at Swatch and Xstrata beat estimates. The measure has still fallen 7.1 percent from this year's high on Jan. 19.
 National benchmark indexes advanced in 11 of the 17 Western European markets that were open Monday.
 The FTSE 100 in Britain rose 0.5 percent as the VT Group rallied. The CAC 40 in France gained 0.3 percent and the DAX in Germany increased 0.2 percent. The Greek market was closed for a holiday.
 The equity market in the United States was closed for Presidents' Day, while markets in China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia were closed for the Lunar New Year holiday.
 At markets in Asia that were open, stocks fell on fears that earnings would suffer after China bolstered steps to cool its economy and Japan said its deflation accelerated.
 Komatsu, a machinery maker that counts China as its fastest-growing market, retreated 2.3 percent in Tokyo. BlueScope Steel, Australia's biggest steel maker, slumped 3.1 percent after reporting a loss. 
 ''There's mixed emotions in the market at the moment,'' said Nader Naeimi, a senior investment strategist in Sydney at AMP Capital Investors. ''It's a tug of war between optimism over the improving macroeconomic backdrop and concern that the period of easy liquidity is coming to an end.''
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.5 percent, with three times as many stocks declining as advancing. 
 The Nikkei 225 stock average in Japan lost 0.8 percent, to 10,013.30, even as a government report showed the nation's economic growth accelerated in the last quarter. Shinsei Bank fell 6.7 percent after the Nikkei newspaper said Shinsei's merger talks with Aozora Bank collapsed.
 Air Liquide advanced 1.3 percent, to 79.88 euros, after reporting 2009 net income of 1.23 billion euros ($1.7 billion), compared with an average analyst estimate of 1.18 billion euros. The company exceeded its target for cost cuts, leading to a wider profit margin even as sales fell.
 Basic resource shares posted the biggest gain among all 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600, rising 1.3 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Komatsu excavator in Beijing. The company says China is its fastest-growing market.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); MINES & MINING (90%); INDUSTRIAL GAS MFG (90%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BENCHMARKING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INDUSTRIAL GASES (78%); MERGERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); DEFLATION (74%); APPROVALS (71%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (71%); AIRLINES (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); BANK FAILURES (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); EURO (62%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (56%)

COMPANY: RIO TINTO GROUP (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); IBERIA LINEAS AEREAS DE ESPANA SA (90%); AIR LIQUIDE SA (84%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); BLUESCOPE STEEL LTD (53%); SHINSEI BANK LTD (51%); AOZORA BANK LTD (51%)

TICKER: RIOS (BRU) (93%); RIO (NYSE) (93%); RIO (LSE) (93%); RIO (ASX) (93%); AI (PAR) (84%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); BSL (ASX) (53%); 8303 (TSE) (51%); 8304 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (93%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (93%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (93%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS325120 INDUSTRIAL GAS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (84%); SIC2813 INDUSTRIAL GASES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3441 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL (53%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (53%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) EUROPE (94%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); GREECE (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



416 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Goal for NASA: To Mars, or Not Quite?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A New Space Program'' (editorial, Feb. 9):
 Your editorial calling for a new goal for NASA and suggesting Mars is right in spirit, wrong in particulars.
 Mars is not yet a feasible goal. Instead, the proposed 2011 NASA budget is all about developing United States capabilities to expand and exploit the inner solar system. Part of the initiative is to ''scout'' resources.''
 Let me suggest that this should be the whole goal: NASA's prime task should be developing space resources. 
 Just as the United States Geological Survey and the Army helped miners and settlers move west in the United States in the 19th century, NASA -- perhaps together with other agencies -- should make it possible to exploit the huge wealth available in space. With the right investments, the risk involved in bringing these resources back to Earth will become low enough that venture capitalists will find the enterprise worth the risk, for huge profits.
 How big are the resources? A single small asteroid of the right type contains billions of dollars' worth of platinum alone -- about a year's production on Earth. Surveys under way will soon find hundreds of small asteroids in accessible orbits. But picking the right one will take a lot of work, as will developing the remote mining methods.
 Astronomers, planetary scientists, geologists, aerospace engineers, miners and astronauts will all be needed to make this vision a success. The payoff for the United States, and for all on Earth, could be endless.
 Martin Elvis Cambridge, Mass., Feb. 10, 2010
 The writer is an astrophysicist at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics.
 To the Editor:
 As a former director for public information for the National Space Society (Philadelphia office), I would like to point out that many of the solutions we seek today were advanced 25 years ago. Space industrialization offers practical investments in technologies that would yield benefits in energy, materials and products. That path was rejected by NASA in favor of a Mars mission that holds no economic promise for the future or the American public.
 A return to the Moon for mining, fuel production and in-space manufacturing offers nearer term economic benefits through investment in our technologies, our economy and our people. Exploration means little when we refuse the benefits of the assets we've developed. 
 Technologies like the solar power satellite and the solar sail offer solutions for a resource-starved world and a series of economic and political options we do not have today. We need energy, not Captain Kirk.
 Michael Calabrese Cincinnati, Feb. 10, 2010
 To the Editor: 
 You are spot on regarding the missing goals for NASA's new space plan. The Vision for Space Exploration was conceived in 2004 as a robust plan to expand stepwise to the Moon and beyond, exploiting resources and linking robotic missions to human exploration. Underfinancing, including an unanticipated bill for Katrina damage, left the program with a clear goal (the Moon) but weak technology and robotic mission foundations.
 The new plan finances technology and robotics, but has no other clear goal. Perhaps we should listen to the Augustine Commission, which concluded last fall that the program was simply underfinanced. With $787 billion of stimulus money already spent, you would think that an extra $3 billion for this national treasure would be warranted.
 Dave Murrow Highlands Ranch, Colo., Feb. 9, 2010
 The writer, a former employee of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, is a consultant and engineering service provider to the aerospace industry, specifically robotic mission and launch vehicle providers.
 To the Editor:
 I propose the idea of assembling our next manned spacecraft at the International Space Station. The ship could be assembled using modules created on Earth and transported to the space station using low-cost unmanned rockets. We would no longer need superexpensive heavy-lift rockets for manned Earth launchings.
 Private companies could develop smaller, single-stage space planes that could take astronauts to and from the space station, returning them to Earth at space ports like the one being built in New Mexico. 
 If we use the space station as our base to launch and maintain manned spacecraft, I believe that we will have taken a major step toward a sustainable manned space program. From the space station we could go to Mars, the Moon, or other moons, planets or asteroids. It is time to break free of Earth's gravity in an affordable way.
 David Kaye Woodland Hills, Calif., Feb. 9, 2010
 The writer is a retired aerospace engineer.
 To the Editor:
 Do we really need a space program that will carry astronauts to Mars?
 According to the Nobel laureate Steven Weinberg, the manned space program ''masquerades as science.'' You could say it is a spectator sport, having about the same relationship to science that intercollegiate football has to education.
 V. K. Balakrishnan Cedar Park, Tex., Feb. 9, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LULU WOLF) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (91%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); ASTROPHYSICS (89%); AEROSPACE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); BUDGETS (77%); SPACE PROPULSION (77%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); SOLAR ENERGY (76%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (74%); WRITERS (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); ENGINEERING (71%); PHYSICS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%) MARS (96%); EARTH (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



417 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Optimism for the Debut Of 2 Singapore Casinos

BYLINE: By SONIA KOLESNIKOV-JESSOP

DATELINE: SINGAPORE 

 BODY:
As Singapore gets ready to open its first casinos, there is little doubt that the controversial decision it made five years ago to allow gambling is going to pay economic dividends for the city-state. But whether the operators of the two giant resorts will be reaping jackpots anytime soon remains the big question. 
 The two resorts have very different focuses -- Resorts World Sentosa is targeting families with a Universal Studios theme park, while Marina Bay Sands's huge convention center floors are seeking to lure business travelers. 
 Many analysts believe the combo will allow the government to reach its goal of raising the number of visitors to 17 million a year by 2015 -- and bringing their annual spending to $21.3 billion. In 2008, Singapore attracted 10.1 million visitors who spent $10.5 billion. 
 The government expects the two projects will create about 35,000 new jobs and add up to 1 percentage point to gross domestic product growth.
 For the gambling companies, the openings present a fresh chance to tap into Asia's booming economies at a time when growth -- and discretionary income -- in the United States and Europe is lagging. But Singapore's tight restrictions on junket operators and high entry fees for local visitors could hurt business. Cost overruns have already put the two resorts deeper in the hole than planned.
 When Genting won its bid for Resort World Sentosa in 2007, it planned to spend $3.1 billion to develop the site; the final bill now totals $4.7 billion. Las Vegas Sands was planning to spend about $3.2 billion for its Marina Bay resort, but the cost has ballooned to $5.5 billion.
 The Sentosa resort has started to receive some of its first hotel guests, but the casino and the theme park are not yet open. The Sands is not expected to open before April. Both resorts must open a significant portion of their floor space before the casinos can start operations.
 With noncasino revenues expected to account for only 20 percent of the resorts' earnings, both companies will need to generate significant gaming business to recoup their investments. 
 ''I think the gaming revenues will not be enough to justify the capital investments that have been required between the two of them,'' said Ben Lee of IGamix Management and Consulting, a gambling consulting firm in Macao. ''I don't think the market is big enough to have two profitable'' resorts.
 Aaron Fischer, an analyst at CLSA, was somewhat more positive. 
 ''The returns on invested capital will be lower in Singapore than in Macao or other markets, because the capital expenditure was very, very high,'' he said. ''Yes, they've spent much more than they planned, but that's not uncommon with these types of projects. But over time, the returns should ramp up significantly, because the additional capital investment required to run the casinos will be fairly low compared with the initial investment.'' 
 Mr. Fischer said that, unlike Macao, which has 33 casinos, Singapore will have just two. Taxes are also lower in Singapore compared with Macao, so the casinos should be able to generate better returns over time versus other markets, he said. Gambling revenue in Macao last year totaled more than $14.7 billion, according to the territory's Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau.
 The gambling tax rate in Singapore will be 15 percent for mass market and 5 percent for V.I.P. players who deposit more than the Singapore equivalent of $72,000 to play in private salons. By comparison, Nevada has a 6.75 percent tax, New Jersey collects 8 percent, Pennsylvania 56 percent and Macao 39 percent. 
 Some more bullish gambling analysts are forecasting that the two casinos could generate around $3 billion in revenue in 2010, rising to as much as $4.4 billion in 2011.
 Based on his own gambling revenue projections, which are lower at $2.1 billion for 2010 and $3.5 billion in 2011, Mr. Fischer anticipated that it would take five to seven years for the operators to recoup their investments. In 2004, the Sands Macao recouped its investment in less than a year, but the stand-alone casino cost only $240 million to build. 
 At a recent news conference in Singapore, the Genting Group chairman, Lim Kok Thay, would not project gambling revenue or how fast the company would recoup its investment. But he said he expected 12 million to 13 million visitors in the first year of operation, 60 percent of them from overseas.
 The Las Vegas Sands chairman, Sheldon Adelson, has been more forthcoming, predicting annual earnings of $1 billion for the resort. Mr. Adelson also said his resort could recover its capital investment in five years. 
 Genting, based in Malaysia, is Southeast Asia's largest gambling company and the biggest casino operator in Britain. It returned to profit in the third quarter after cutting costs at its British casinos and getting higher earnings from its Malaysian gambling resort, posting net income of $109 million after a small loss a year earlier. 
 Las Vegas Sands, meanwhile, has been struggling because of the sharp downturn on the Vegas strip. In the third quarter, it posted a net loss of $123 million, compared with a year-earlier loss of $32.2 million. Still, the company is optimistic about trends for meetings and conventions in Las Vegas in 2010 and is getting a boost from resurgent business in Macao. In November, Sands China, its Macao spinoff, raised $2.5 billion in Hong Kong through an I.P.O.
 One factor in the success of the Singapore resorts may be the entry charge of 100 Singapore dollars, or $71, the government plans to levy on locals each time they visit a casino. (Alternatively, locals can opt to pay 2,000 dollars per year for unlimited visits.) 
 Anil Daswani, global head of gaming research at Citigroup Investment Research, says that could hurt earnings; Citigroup is forecasting that the two resorts will generate only $2.8 billion in gambling revenue in 2011. 
 But Melvyn Boey, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said the levy was only a concern insofar as it might discourage locals who want to go to the casinos for fun; those who go to wager will not be deterred because they would have to pay more than that to travel to gamble somewhere else. 
 Mr. Boey said restrictions placed on junket operators -- independent operators who bring in high-rolling clients in exchange for earning a commission between 0.6 percent and 1.8 percent of the value of what the clients play -- would have a bigger effect. 
 The Singapore authorities have mandated strict probity checks for junket operators. For example, applicants have to declare whether they, their spouses or children have made loans of more than 25,000 dollars in the last 10 years. They also have to list all assets, bank accounts (foreign and domestic) and business activities for the last 15 years. 
 Junket operators will have to keep a record of every junket -- including each player's full name, nationality, passport number and taxpayer identification number. Details of their stay and the amount of commissions, rebate or freebies given to each player will also have to be recorded and kept for five years.
 Junket operators play a key role with high rollers that the casinos cannot easily replicate, said Mr. Lee.
 ''They not only identify the players, organize their trips and somehow get their money out of the country to the casinos, they are also able to generate far more frequent repeat visits than a casino salesperson can do, through the use of techniques such as peer group pressure, far more liberal credit granting than casino operators and other incentives,'' he said, noting that in Macao, the volume of business attributable to the junkets is around 70 percent. 
 Mr. Lee believes the regulations will be ''a huge deterrent'' for junket operators, who operate more freely in Macao and whose Chinese clients often want to keep a low profile. 
 Mr. Boey, though, believes the controls on junket operators in Singapore will not substantially affect the size of the V.I.P. market in the long term. 
 ''In any other casino markets outside Macao, casino operators do not rely on junkets,'' he said, adding that direct V.I.P. is probably 70 percent to 80 percent of the V.I.P. business in Malaysia or Australia.
 It is more profitable for the casinos to attract high rollers on their own, he said. ''So net-net, in the short term, it's negative,'' he said of the junket rules, ''but, in the long term, it gives the casino more sustained income and less volatility.'' 
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Resorts World Sentosa, above, opened Sunday, the first of two new casinos in Singapore, along with Marina Bay Sands. At left, Lim Kok Thay, the chairman of Resorts World's owner, the Genting Group, played baccarat during the opening festivities.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAN LEONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 HOW HWEE YOUNG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); RESORTS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (71%)

COMPANY: LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP (74%)

TICKER: LVS (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (74%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE, SINGAPORE (94%) SINGAPORE (97%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



418 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Quietly, Nations Grapple With Steps to Quash Fake Goods

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Behind a veil of secrecy, the United States, the European Union, Japan and other countries are forging ahead with plans to coordinate an international crackdown on illegally copied music, movies, designer bags and other goods that change hands in sidewalk souks and Internet bazaars.
 Negotiators, under intense pressure from media companies, luxury brands and other corporate victims of piracy, are scrambling to complete a so-called Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement by the end of the year. 
 But the process is running into growing criticism from Internet campaigners, lawmakers and even some people involved in it.
 After the most recent round of negotiations late last month in Guadalajara, Mexico, news of disagreements has been trickling out, despite an official vow of silence from the participants, which has itself become a main source of friction. 
 E.U. negotiators, for example, are said to have balked at a U.S.-backed proposal to require Internet service providers to take tough steps against digital piracy. 
 Under such a structure, leaked papers from the Union show, Internet providers might be required to filter out illegally copied songs and films from their networks or to sever copyright violators' Internet connections. 
 Many nations are said to have drafted alternatives to the U.S.-backed proposal, seeking alternatives to those demands.
 ''Our system allows for flexibility,'' said one person with knowledge of the E.U. position, who insisted on anonymity because of nondisclosure agreements governing the talks. ''The E.U. cannot accept an agreement that mandates a single solution.''
 Within Europe, different countries have pursued a range of approaches to dealing with Internet piracy. Last year, France approved a so-called three-strikes system, under which illegal file-sharers who ignored two warnings to quit could face the loss of Internet access. 
 Britain has proposed similar legislation. But German and Swedish officials have ruled out such measures, and politicians elsewhere in Europe have sought to enshrine Internet access as a fundamental human right.
 Details of what has actually been discussed remain sketchy. Though the talks have been going on for two years, texts of the proposed deal have been sealed from public view.
 Critics say the lack of transparency is highly unusual for a trade agreement with so many parties involved, especially since the deal could influence the workings of the Internet and affect hundreds of millions of people around the world.
 ''You'd think it was nuclear weapons kind of stuff, not intellectual property law,'' said Eddan Katz, international affairs director at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which campaigns against regulation of the Internet. ''The fact that there are 30 or 50 people sitting around a table deciding the laws of the world's nations, when there are major areas of disagreement, seems like a wholesale contravention of the democratic process.''
 Lawmakers have also largely been kept out of the loop.
 In the United States last month, Senator Ron Wyden, a Democrat from Oregon, wrote to Ron Kirk, the U.S. trade representative, whose office is negotiating on behalf of the United States, to seek information about the negotiations. 
 In Britain, members of the three main political parties have signed a parliamentary motion calling on their government to release details. National lawmakers elsewhere in Europe, and at the European Parliament, have also demanded greater openness.
 Even some participants want to ease the secrecy that surrounds the process.
 ''The Swedish government believes that we should release a consolidated text as soon as possible,'' said Stefan Johansson, a Swedish Justice Ministry official who has been involved in the talks.
 After the latest round in Mexico, the participants issued only a bland communique saying, among other things, that the negotiations had been ''productive'' and had ''focused on civil enforcement, border enforcement and enforcement of rights in the digital environment.''
 ''Recalling their shared view of the importance of providing opportunities for meaningful public input, the participants reaffirmed their commitment to intensify their respective efforts to provide such opportunities and collectively enhance transparency,'' the statement said.
 The person with knowledge of the talks said one idea under consideration would be to invite groups with concerns to meet on the sidelines of the next round, scheduled for Wellington in April.
 Despite the haze surrounding the proposed agreement, some of the most alarmist speculation appears to have been exaggerated. For example, several people with knowledge of the talks said there was no truth to one early rumor -- that the accord would empower customs officials to search digital music players for illegally copied songs at border crossings.
 Business groups say fears have been fanned by people with a vested interest in weakening copyright protection in the proposed Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, or ACTA. 
 These groups say that greater international coordination is needed to protect businesses that rely on creativity, brand names and other easily copied assets, particularly in export markets.
 ''Given the importance of this agreement to our economy and to consumers, we must not allow ACTA to be derailed by a minority opposed to protecting the rights of artists, inventors and entrepreneurs,'' Mark T. Esper, executive vice president of the Global Intellectual Property Center, an affiliate of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said in a statement.
 Critics of the process say that if protecting industrialized countries' economies is the goal, the talks ought to include developing countries like China, India and Indonesia, where intellectual property laws or enforcement are sometimes weaker. In addition to the United States, the European Union and Japan, the parties to the talks are Australia, Canada, South Korea, Mexico, Morocco, New Zealand, Singapore and Switzerland.
 ''Some might see it as an anti-counterfeiting deal without the counterfeiters,'' said Michael Geist, a law professor at the University of Ottawa who has been mustering critics of the negotiations via his blog.
 Portions of the negotiations dealing with the Internet have attracted more attention than proposals for cracking down on piracy of physical goods and other trademark violations.
 In an interview with World Trademark Review, a trade journal, the assistant U.S. trade representative for intellectual property and innovation, Stan McCoy, lamented what he called a ''misperception that this agreement will focus mostly or exclusively on copyright infringement in the digital environment.''
 ''The threat of physical goods bearing counterfeit trademarks is a real one, and it is a priority for ACTA,'' Mr. McCoy said. ''Americans do not want to brush their teeth with counterfeit toothpaste or drive a car with knockoff brakes.''
 His office did not respond to requests for elaboration on the U.S. position. 
 One supporter of the talks, the Motion Picture Association of America, is urging U.S. negotiators not to back down on proposals for fighting the unauthorized digital copying of movies.
 ''Internet piracy has emerged as the fastest-growing threat to the filmed entertainment industry,'' Dan Glickman, chief executive of the association, said in a recent letter to Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who is the chairman of the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee. ''M.P.A.A. firmly believes that a strong ACTA should address this challenge, raising the level and effectiveness of copyright enforcement in the digital and online marketplaces.''
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A shopper going through an assortment of pirated DVD movies in Beijing. Several nations have banded together, trying to find a way to shield intellectual property.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WANG ZHAO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERFEITING (91%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERNET CRIME (77%); MUSIC (77%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (73%); COPYRIGHT (73%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (71%); LUXURY GOODS (57%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (59%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); CHINA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



419 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: The Convention Crashers

BYLINE: By MARTHA C. WHITE

 BODY:
Convention industry insiders disdainfully call them ''outboarders'' -- those vendors who set up shop in a hotel suite near a trade show site to promote their products.
 The industry sees the vendors as parasites who latch onto the host convention and reap the advantages of the often-considerable resources spent on organizing the show and drawing a crowd -- without paying their share of the costs. 
 The vendors, on the other hand, argue that they are suffering in the weak economy and that the rock-bottom rates offered by some hotels help them stretch their marketing budgets. 
 Caught in the middle of this tug of war are the hotels, which are increasingly being asked to keep out the interlopers. 
 While unsanctioned exhibits are not new, they appear to be on the rise. They became an issue at the annual Consumer Electronics Show last month in Las Vegas, one of the largest trade shows in the United States. According to technology bloggers and others attending the show, hotel security people forced some vendors to vacate suites in which they were demonstrating products.
 ''Outboarding is wrong,'' said Jason Oxman, the senior vice president of industry affairs for the Consumer Electronics Association, which produces the Consumer Electronics Show each January. ''An outboarder takes advantage of the significant investment a trade show makes.''
 But Mr. Oxman denied that the association had stepped up enforcement against the vendors, suggesting that the crackdown was instituted by the hotels themselves. ''Our antennas are raised for people that try and circumvent the show process,'' said Ron Reese, vice president of communications for Las Vegas Sands, the parent company of two official show hotels, the Palazzo Las Vegas and the Venetian Las Vegas. He said the association spent tens of millions each year promoting and producing the show, which draws 120,000 participants. Professional exhibit managers who play by the rules and pay to exhibit also resent vendors who come to town but do not exhibit on the trade show floor, he said. 
 Nor is the electronics association alone in its sentiments about the outside vendors. ''This instance with the C.E.S. is going to raise some awareness,'' said John Foster, a convention industry lawyer. Although the show took place only last month, Mr. Foster said he had already been approached by several organizers of smaller events eager to learn how they could thwart the outside exhibitors. ''Whenever you get a big show that goes through an incident like this, that publicity generates a lot of interest in how to stop the problem,'' he added.
 The electronics association pointed to a long-standing policy prohibiting any type of consumer electronics-related events taking place in Las Vegas over the show dates. Mr. Oxman acknowledged, though, that this rule was almost impossible to enforce if vendors choose from among the many hotels in Las Vegas that do not have a contract with the association.
 ''Everybody does it,'' said one hardware vendor who spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid speaking out publicly against the electronics association, which retaliates against vendors who run unsanctioned events by stripping them of the points a vendor can earn by exhibiting legitimately. More points translate to a better selection of show floor space for future shows. Those with no points to forfeit can be kicked out of the association. 
 The vendor said her company chose the Palazzo because it was inexpensive, and received a verbal assurance that its exhibit would be permitted. 
 What happened instead, she said, was that hotel security forced the company to dismantle its demonstrations and remove all product-marketing materials. The vendor referred to the eviction as the result of a ''miscommunication.'' Mr. Reese of the Sands said all guests were presented with criteria for their stay upon check-in; a prohibition on in-room exhibiting is among the rules. 
 Bob Buskirk, who attended the electronics show and owns a Web site, ThinkComputers, that reviews hardware and software products, said he had ''never been kicked out of a hotel room or even heard of companies being kicked out.'' But this January, he said, two of his meetings were disrupted when the vendors were ejected by hotel security. ''From what I've heard anecdotally, the amount of unlicensed vendors was certainlly the most it's been in recent memory,'' said Mr. Reese of the Sands.
 Mr. Buskirk, who has been attending the show for five years, said that the show's exhibits seemed to take up much less space this year. A spokeswoman for the association confirmed that the show's size dropped to 1.4 million attendees this year, from 1.7 million last year.
 Steven Rudner, a hospitality industry lawyer who represents hotels, countered that stipulations like those from the electronics association restrict a hotel's ability to do business. ''To switch the burden of enforcing this on a hotel seems to be completely unreasonable,'' Mr. Rudner said. Some groups, he said, go so far as to try and make the hotel responsible for screening all guests to insure that no competitors book suites or meeting space that could be used for private events. 
 Lawyers who represent trade show producers said this kind of strong language is necessary to protect the investments made by hosts and exhibitors, especially in an economy where hotels might be tempted to turn a blind eye to unsanctioned exhibits to book needed business. ''They want to play both sides of it,'' said Barbara Dunn, a partner at the convention industry law firm, Howe & Hutton Ltd. ''There's no question that the hotel industry is hurting.''
 In some cases, she said, vendors who want to skirt a trade show's policies will deliberately obscure their affiliation or their plans to run an exhibit in a suite, making enforcement even harder. 
 Some other trade shows have used less confrontational methods, which they say are just as effective. Megan Tanel, vice president of exhibitions and events for the Association of Equipment Manufacturers, said violations of exhibitor rules at her shows go to a committee made up of other industry members. 
 ''It comes down to your peers, customers and competitors to decide your fate,'' she said. This usually works, but when it does not, she says she tries to convince vendors it is in their best interests to be an official part of the show. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Megan Tanel of the Association of Equipment Managers with Philip Jones of AGCO at a machinery show exhibition.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID R. LUTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Unsanctioned exhibitors were an issue last month at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, a large trade show.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE SHOWS (93%); RETAILERS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP (58%)

TICKER: LVS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



420 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: It's a Plot! No, It's Not: A Debunking

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
VOODOO HISTORIES 
 The Role of the Conspiracy Theory in Shaping Modern History 
 By David Aaronovitch 
 388 pages. Riverhead Books. $26.95.
 The principle of Occam's razor suggests that the simplest hypothesis is usually the correct one -- or as the character Gil Grissom in ''CSI: Crime Scene Investigation'' succinctly puts it, if you hear hoofbeats, ''think horses, not zebras.'' 
 In his lively new book, ''Voodoo Histories,'' the journalist David Aaronovitch uses Occam's razor to eviscerate the many conspiracy theories that have percolated through politics and popular culture over the last century, from those that assert that the 9/11 terrorist attacks were actually a United States government plot to those that claim that Diana, Princess of Wales, was murdered at the direction of the royal family or British intelligence. 
 In most cases, Mr. Aaronovitch notes, conspiracy theorists would rather tie themselves into complicated knots and postulate all sorts of improbable secret connections than accept a simple, more obvious explanation. 
 Of those who claim that the Pentagon was not hit on 9/11 by a terrorist-piloted American Airlines Flight 77, Mr. Aaronovitch sarcastically observes: ''But there is always the possibility, however extraordinarily remote, that DNA might have been planted to the exact specifications of the missing passengers, crew and employees, that wreckage might somehow have been placed at the scene within minutes of the crash, and that the real occupants of the missing Flight 77 might have been spirited away to some unknown place, there to be butchered or to live in the world's weirdest witness protection program.''
 Although this book owes a huge debt to the classic study on this subject -- Richard Hofstadter's ''Paranoid Style in American Politics'' -- Mr. Aaronovitch, who is a columnist for The Times of London, deconstructs a dizzying array of conspiracy theories in these pages with unsparing logic, common sense and at times exasperated wit. 
 Some of the theories he examines are infamous for their malignity and horrific consequences, like the ''The Protocols of the Elders of Zion'': fabricated documents used to justify anti-Semitism in Russia, Nazi Germany and more recently in places like Iran and Gaza. 
 Some are theories of political conspiracies intended to shape America's foreign policy, like charges that President Franklin D. Roosevelt allowed Pearl Harbor to happen -- or worse, that he had procured just such a Japanese attack -- to bring the United States into World War II.
 Other conspiracy theories are just plain loony efforts to connect the dots between assorted scandals and dead celebrities, like the allegations of a writer named Matthew Smith. In ''The Kennedys: The Conspiracy to Destroy a Dynasty'' (2005), Mr. Aaronovitch writes, ''Smith constructs an overarching theory that connects the deaths of Marilyn, J. F. K., R. F. K. and Mary Jo Kopechne, the girl who died in Edward Kennedy's car at Chappaquiddick in 1969. It was all -- all of it -- the work of elements within the C.I.A. They saw J. F. K. as being too left-wing and bumped Marilyn off to discredit the Kennedys, both of whom were having affairs with the star at her bugged bungalow in Los Angeles. Unfortunately, that didn't work, so they killed J. F. K. the next year, and then, for some reason, waited another five years before getting rid of Bobby. The next year they arranged for Ted to drive his car, complete with a young woman, off a bridge, thus destroying his chances of the presidency.'' 
 So why do conspiracy theories flourish? Though some of the conspiracy-mongerers described here appear to be simple crackpots or people out to make a fast buck with one of those laughably titled books that aspire to clutter up the best-seller lists (''Henry Kissinger: Soviet Agent,'' ''Diana: The Killing of a Princess,'' ''Rule by Secrecy: The Hidden History That Connects the Trilateral Commission, the Freemasons and the Great Pyramid''), Mr. Aaronovitch tries to provide the reader with a carefully reasoned anatomy of the phenomenon in these pages. 
 He not only notes the appeal of narrative and causality in a frighteningly random world -- something readers of Thomas Pynchon's novels well know -- but also argues that overarching theories tend to be ''formulated by the politically defeated and taken up by the socially defeated.'' 
 These losers ''left behind by modernity,'' he writes, ''can be identified in the beached remnants of vanished European empires; the doomed bureaucrats, the White Russians and the patriotic German petit bourgeois. They are the America firsters, who got the war they didn't want; the Midwest populists watching their small farmers go out of business; the opponents of the New Deal; the McGovern liberals in the era of Richard Nixon; British socialists and pacifists in the decade of Margaret Thatcher; the irreconcilable American right during the Clinton administration; the shattered American left in the time of the second Bush. 
 ''If it can be proved that there has been a conspiracy, which has transformed politics and society, then their defeat is not the product of their own inherent weakness or unpopularity, let alone their mistakes; it is due to the almost demonic ruthlessness of their enemy.'' 
 It's not surprising, then, that conspiracy theories thrive in times of change, uncertainty and economic stress, and that the designated villains often conform to enemies in ''American populist folklore.'' Of the era of McCarthyism and the venom aimed at supposed Communist sympathizers, Mr. Aaronovitch writes: ''They were East Coasters or Hollywooders; they were educated; they were city dwellers; they liked art and fancy music; they were separate from -- and unsympathetic to -- the daily travails of the American little man.'' 
 These days a similar sort of antipathy is directed at President Obama, the Democratic Party and the mainstream news media by the Tea Party movement and by so-called birthers, who question whether Mr. Obama was born in the United States. 
 In the case of the birthers, Mr. Aaronovitch says, many of the individuals and organizations involved are the same ones who tried to torpedo Bill Clinton's presidency, denouncing Mr. Clinton as morally corrupt, even criminal: ''It is as though,'' he writes, ''they had been on vacation through the eight years of the George W. Bush presidency, only to rediscover, on arriving home, that there was yet another slippery liar in the White House.''
 Does the Internet, with its increased democratization of information, help spread conspiracy theories or help expose them? Mr. Aaronovitch says that it was obvious that ''sites endorsing 9/11 conspiracy theories and those subscribing to them in passing far outnumbered sites devoted to debunking or refuting such theories.'' 
 He writes that the Internet has enabled the ''release of a mass of undifferentiated information, some of it authoritative, some speculative, some absurd,'' and that ''cyberspace communities of semi-anonymous and occasionally self-invented individuals have grown up, some of them permitting contact between people who in previous times might have thought each other's interests impossibly exotic and even mad.''
 Polls cited in this book suggest that an alarming number of people now subscribe to forms of 9/11 revisionism. ''In August 2004 a poll conducted by the Zogby opinion research company found nearly two-thirds of New Yorkers under 30 agreeing with the proposition that the administration 'knew in advance that attacks were planned on or around Sept. 11, 2001, and that they consciously failed to act,' '' Mr. Aaronovitch writes. 
 He adds that a Scripps Howard poll in July 2006 ''had 36 percent of respondents suspecting government participation of some kind in the attacks, with just over one in six believing that explosives had been used to bring down the twin towers.''
 The same poll, he notes, ''measured belief in a Kennedy conspiracy at 40 percent.''
 It's enough to make characters from ''The X-Files'' and Dan Brown novels feel completely at home.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 David Aaronovitch (PHOTOGRAPH BY NIGEL BARKLIE) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (90%); WRITERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); WORLD WAR II (84%); TERRORISM (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SCANDALS (76%); MAMMALS (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); AIRLINES (71%); WITNESSES (71%); MURDER (57%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: PRINCESS DIANA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (77%)

TITLE: Voodoo Histories (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



421 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ASTORIA JOURNAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Winter Coats No Longer the Fashion for Fig Trees

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
Stavros Pando will tell you that the ideal spot to plant a fig tree in New York City is in the corner of a walled-off backyard where the walls serve as buffers from the cold winter winds. But he lives in Astoria, Queens, and finding such a spot there can be challenging. Though the neighborhood has plenty of backyards, few are walled and many have been paved to make room for parking, a prized commodity.
 Mr. Pando has a garage behind his house on 27th Street and a fig tree about seven feet tall on a tiny patch of dirt out front, thoroughly exposed to the elements. 
 An uncle planted it there before Mr. Pando left the northwestern mountains of Greece in 1993 to join him in New York. Mr. Pando says the tree does not like winter. So every year, after the last of its leaves have fallen but before the ground has frozen, Mr. Pando, his wife and his son wrap it in blankets and plastic bags. 
 ''In winter, tree sleep,'' Mr. Pando, 72, said in broken English, closing his eyes as if to reinforce his point. 
 As long as there have been immigrants from Greece and Italy in Astoria, there have been fig trees -- they dot virtually every block from Ditmars Boulevard to 36th Avenue, between the East River and Steinway Street, in the neighborhood's southern European quadrangle. The trees are native to the Mediterranean region, where winters are decidedly milder than in New York, but the fig trees of Astoria, like true New Yorkers, have proved resilient.
 The immigrants planted fig tree roots they had smuggled from the places they left behind, and then cared for the trees as if they were part of the family, carefully wrapping them in the winter to protect them from the cold. 
 From November until maybe April, the trees look like hastily made packages of plastic and duct tape, and while they were once a common sight, they are a rare find these days: people have grown too old, too busy or too tired to carry on the tradition.
 ''If it became too cold, I could cover right away, but right now, why waste time?'' asked Pietro Paolo, 70, a native of Campobasso, Italy, who stopped covering the fig tree he has had for 20 years after it survived a winter uncovered three years ago.
 From a scientific perspective, covering a fig tree in the winter has more to do with protecting it from changes in temperature, which can be more harmful than the cold itself, said Todd Forrest, vice president for horticulture and living collections at the New York Botanical Garden. Rainwater can seep into a tree's roots and cells, and if the water freezes, it can rupture the tree's vascular connections and potentially kill it, he said.
 ''It's sort of like a pipe that bursts if the water inside turns into ice,'' Mr. Forrest said.
 There are two ways to protect a fig tree from winter weather. One is to bury the tree branches, a strenuous days-long process that requires slowly bending the trunk. The other is to wrap it and perhaps place a garbage can on top of the tree for extra protection. It is the more popular and easier method, but can still be time-consuming. 
 Benedetto Randozzo, an immigrant from Sicily who has lived in Astoria for more than 30 years, ties his tree's branches together with rope, squeezing its wide crown. He wraps the tree in old blankets (burlap sacks are another option) and then covers it in plastic to keep out moisture and prevent mold. He might also throw some soil or mulch around the base of the tree to protect its roots. 
 Next door to Mr. Randozzo, four fig trees stand uncovered. They yield, Mr. Randozzo said, as much fruit in the summer as his tree, which he has had for 26 years. Casting a disdainful look at the neighboring trees, he said in Italian, ''My tree is Sicilian. It's not used to the cold.''
 The environment for Astoria's fig trees is not terribly taxing. Recent New York winters have tended to be on the mild side, and the city is a heat island of sorts, surrounded by water and coated in asphalt and concrete, said Marvin P. Pritts, chairman of the horticulture department at Cornell University.
 The trees ''might be able to survive a typical winter in our climate, but they would likely die in severe weather,'' Mr. Pritts said.
 Mr. Pando, who was a history teacher in Greece and is a retired groundskeeper for the New York City Housing Authority, said his uncle, Paul Econom, planted the fig tree outside his house and taught him how to wrap it. ''My uncle say, 'Cover tree for winter, cover tree for snow, snow dangerous,' '' Mr. Pando said. 
 Last year, Mr. Pando's wife, Qirjaqica Pando, 72, returned from Greece with a fig tree root hidden in her suitcase. She planted it in a pot that, for now, she keeps inside the house. 
 Mr. Pando said that come April, he will uncover his fig tree and plant the growing root close by. Then, in November, before winter settles in, Mr. Pando, his wife and his son will wrap both of them in blankets and plastic bags.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stavros Pando, left, along with his son Thanasis and his wife, Qirjaqica, still wrap their fig tree in blankets and plastic. Recent New York winters have been mild enough that the trees can survive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORTICULTURE (78%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (73%); SMUGGLING (67%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (90%); GREECE (87%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (76%); EUROPE (71%); MEDITERRANEAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



422 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: In California, Exhibit A In Debate On Insurance

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
When Bernhard Punzet opened the dreaded envelope from Anthem Blue Cross one recent Saturday, it ruined his weekend.
 Although he had no known medical problems, the company was raising the premium on his individual health insurance policy by 34 percent, to $254 a month. The policy for his partner, who is 12 years older, would rise 36 percent, to $369.
 ''Ten percent I could have rationalized,'' said Mr. Punzet, 34, a financial controller for a Los Angeles recruiting firm. ''But a 34 percent increase? I don't even have any data points for that, nothing to compare it to. I've never seen anything go up 34 percent.''
 With health care negotiations stalled in Washington, the Obama administration is seizing on the seething fury felt by Mr. Punzet and nearly 700,000 other Anthem customers in California who have received notices of increases that average 25 percent. About a quarter of them are seeing leaps of 35 percent to 39 percent, the company said, at least four times the rate of medical inflation. 
 At a moment when the health care debate seemed drained of urgency, the rate increases have permitted Mr. Obama to remind Americans of what is at stake, not just for the uninsured but for those whose coverage is threatened by unregulated hyperinflation. 
 The spike in Anthem's premiums, Mr. Obama warned last week, were ''just a preview of coming attractions'' if the country failed to overhaul its health insurance system. 
 But if Anthem was the whipping boy the White House needed, the confrontation has also reinforced an emerging shift of focus in Washington from the need for universal coverage to the need for serious cost control. And it brought into clear relief the deep rift between the administration and the insurance industry concerning a central question: whether such unsustainable pricing is driven by the bloodless economics of risk or a corporate culture of greed.
 Recognizing a no-lose proposition when they see one, politicians in Sacramento and Washington chastised Anthem relentlessly last week, and hearings are scheduled in both capitals. On Saturday, Anthem's parent company, WellPoint Inc. of Indianapolis, agreed to a request from California's insurance commissioner to delay the increases by two months, to May 1, so he could determine whether they comply with loss-ratio regulations. 
 Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius challenged the company to justify its ''extraordinary'' rate increases and, when it did in a five-page letter, volleyed that she was not satisfied. She expressed indignation that some of Anthem's increases would be up to 15 times the rate of inflation, and that WellPoint had earned $2.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009. 
 ''Too many Americans are at the whim of private, for-profit insurance companies who are raking in billions in profits each year,'' Ms. Sebelius wrote on the White House blog.
 She did not mention that most of WellPoint's fourth-quarter surge came from the one-time sale of a business unit or that Anthem lost money on the individual market in California last year, as company officials assert. California's insurance commissioner, Steve Poizner, said Saturday that he had a ''healthy skepticism'' about the claim. 
 Although Anthem, the state's largest for-profit insurer, has seemed outmaneuvered by the White House so far, it has tried to transform its defensive position into a teachable moment.
 In statements and letters, Anthem and WellPoint have explained what the industry calls a recessionary death spiral: as unemployment and declining wages prompt healthy people to drop their insurance, the remaining risk pool becomes sicker and more expensive to insure, which in turn forces up prices and pushes more people out of the market.
 A study released this week found that the five largest health insurance companies collectively lost 2.7 million customers last year, including 1.4 million by WellPoint. Yet they reported record profits of $12.2 billion.
 The death spiral ''highlights why we need sustainable health care reform to manage the steadily rising costs of hospitals, drugs and doctors,'' Anthem, which is based in Los Angeles, said in a statement.
 To many in recession-racked California, however, the Obama administration's populist rhetoric has sounded pitch perfect. 
 ''As a trial lawyer, I'd make it Exhibit A,'' said Joshua C. Needle, 57, of Santa Monica, whose premium is rising 33 percent. ''I have no problem with profits, but they're maximizing profits without any concern that they have a captive audience.''
 Mr. Needle, like many of the 13 million Americans who buy insurance individually rather than through employers, cannot shop for a better deal because he has medical conditions like high cholesterol and glaucoma that would probably disqualify him with other carriers. 
 Once accepted by an insurer, consumers cannot be dropped for medical reasons. But in California, where Anthem controls more than half of the individual market, regulators have little power to prevent insurers from raising individual rates as high as the market will bear. That often forces consumers to move to less-generous policies with higher deductibles in order to hold down their costs. 
 Mr. Poizner, who is running for governor in the Republican primary, has hired actuaries to study whether Anthem is spending at least 70 percent of premium revenues on claims, as required by state regulations. WellPoint officials said they were confident that Anthem exceeded the threshold.
 In the health care bills that have passed each chamber, but not been reconciled, Congressional Democrats would attack the cost of premiums in several ways. Everyone would be required to have health insurance, spreading risk among larger pools. Health insurance marketplaces, or exchanges, would force insurers to compete more transparently. Insurers would be prohibited from denying or canceling coverage because of medical conditions, and would be forced to spend at least 80 percent of premiums on claims.
 Paradoxically, since WellPoint has lobbied vigorously against the legislation, the company argued last week that its ''unfortunate but necessary'' rate increases demonstrated the need for a major fix.
 But the company found fault with the Democrats' proposals, particularly what it sees as soft enforcement of a health insurance mandate that would allow millions of people to remain uninsured. Only if everyone is covered, the insurance industry argues, can it spread its risks sufficiently to stop rejecting those with pre-existing conditions.
 ''The reform being discussed in Washington will not do anything to address the underlying increases in costs,'' said Brian A. Sassi, president of consumer business for WellPoint. 
 Medical costs have typically risen by 5 percent to 10 percent during each of the last five years. Mr. Poizner said he was starting to see significant increases for individual policies sold by some of Anthem's competitors, and double-digit increases have been reported in other states.
 Several insurance analysts said it was possible, but not necessarily likely, that such increases would become common, at least while the economic downturn persists. Insurance brokers in Los Angeles said they had never seen jumps of such magnitude.
 ''It's more astonishment than irritation,'' a Pasadena broker, John W. Barrett, said of the reaction from his customers. ''Irritation was last year and the year before. Now they're astonished.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anthem policyholders who received rate increase notices include, from left, Joshua Needle, Steven Mandel and Bernhard Punzet.
 A letter to Mr. Mandel from Anthem details the rate change that is proposed for his policy.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (87%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (77%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (72%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (67%); CORPORATE CULTURE (62%)

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (94%); WELLPOINT INC (81%)

TICKER: WLP (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (94%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



423 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Americans In Space

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''For Human Spaceflight, Can Measured Beat Bold?'' (Feb. 9): Though successive administrations have squandered this nation's lead in space, the final frontier still remains an American preserve -- provided Washington seizes the day. 
 If the United States is to become a true space-faring civilization, President Obama must enunciate a bold vision that encompasses human spaceflight, robotic exploration, the colonization of the solar system and the search for life in the cosmos. 
 What's more, America can bolster its gross domestic product, ensure price stability and promote growth by venturing into the cosmos. In the 1960s, John F. Kennedy's goal of landing a man on the moon started a research-and-development renaissance. A renewed national commitment to space is likely to create multifarious jobs in undiscovered industries. 
 You don't have to be a Vulcan logician to see the economic benefits of a renewed space-based enterprise. 
 Rosario A. Iaconis
 Mineola, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (67%); JOB CREATION (66%); ROBOTICS (55%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (70%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



424 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Measure on Tuition Rates Faces Albany Resistance

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
During Eliot Spitzer's campaign for governor, he often wondered why New York lacked a public university on a par with Berkeley, the University of California's flagship. Once elected, he seemed poised to raise the profile of the state's two huge systems -- the State University of New York and the City University of New York -- and maybe even create a couple of Berkeleys in the process.
 A commission appointed by Governor Spitzer recommended a major infusion of state financial support, the hiring of 2,200 additional full-time faculty members and the creation of a $3 billion research fund. But the sex scandal that forced him from office in early 2008 was followed by economic freefall, and today, most of the big-ticket proposals for reinventing SUNY and CUNY have largely been ignored.
 Mr. Spitzer's successor, Gov. David A. Paterson, salvaged a few items from the commission, known as the New York State Commission on Higher Education, namely the commitment of nearly a billion dollars a year to critical maintenance and repairs across the two systems, as well as the creation of a low-interest student loan program. 
 Last month, Mr. Paterson dusted off a few more recommendations from the commission, including one to let the SUNY and CUNY boards set their own tuition and set different rates for each college. 
 His proposal, the Public Higher Education Empowerment and Innovation Act, drew cheers from the leaders of CUNY and SUNY and from some members of the commission. But its passage by the State Legislature is uncertain at best, with the heads of both houses' higher education committees expressing strong reservations.
 Currently, the Legislature determines tuition rates, and in general the cost is the same for all campuses in each system. The proposal seeks to avoid the pattern of recent years in which tuition remained flat for years but then increased sharply during downturns, by as much as 30 percent in a single year, to make up for cuts in state aid. University administrators complain that this frustrates planning and growth and is unfair to students enrolled when tuition jumps. 
 Matthew Goldstein, chancellor of CUNY, welcomed the flexibility of setting different tuition rates depending on the program -- a master's of business degree versus a master's of journalism, for instance. 
 ''I don't want Hunter to have a different tuition than Baruch because we have students constantly transferring,'' Dr. Goldstein said. ''But I do want to differentiate on the basis of price elasticity and competitiveness of the program, and that would be very helpful to CUNY.''
 Critics of varying tuition rates say that it could set up a Darwinian struggle among institutions, with the large research universities and most selective colleges coming out on top. 
 ''It will help the strongest colleges and tilt the playing field so that the smaller colleges will suffer,'' said Toby Ann Stavisky, a Queens Democrat who is chairwoman of the Higher Education Committee of the State Senate. 
 The state commission made a strong case that New Yorkers had reason to worry about the higher education systems, pointing out that other states -- and nations -- had poured far more resources into their public colleges. ''Cracks are beginning to appear in the foundation, literally and figuratively,'' it warned. 
 The commission framed its arguments in terms of global competitiveness, citing ''troubling evidence'' that the state's stature had slipped. While the state garnered 10 percent of the country's spending on academic research and development in 1980, that proportion had fallen to 7.9 percent by 2008. 
 ''Using just this one measure,'' the report stated, ''the commission calculates that more than $2.2 billion and over 27,000 jobs have been lost in the state. The commission believes that outstanding research universities are key to the state's future.''
 Proponents of the commission's recommendations, including those who served on the panel, said the ideas were caught in a maelstrom: Mr. Spitzer's embarrassing resignation diverted attention from his top priorities, while the financial crisis diverted the huge financial resources needed to see the plan through. 
 But even if Mr. Spitzer had remained in office and the economy had been robust, it is not clear that the commission's vision would have been realized. Spending several billion dollars on one enterprise, no matter how worthy, is an extremely tough sell in any economic climate. And many of the ideas had been around for decades. 
 Deborah J. Glick, a Manhattan Democrat and chairwoman of the Assembly's Higher Education Committee, said the report contained ''the same tired old ideas that had come up before.''
 Another impediment, some say, was a lack of political will. If one campus were to emerge as New York's answer to Berkeley -- the University at Buffalo or Stony Brook University, say -- then the others are diminished, or so the thinking goes.
 ''The legislators all favor their own local campuses, and they don't want to see other campuses being treated better than their own,'' said Hunter R. Rawlings III, a former president of Cornell University who was chairman of the Commission on Higher Education. ''The result is that SUNY campuses are all treated pretty similarly, and you don't have the differentiation that other states have achieved.'' 
 Still, university leaders are encouraged by Mr. Paterson's tuition proposal, which could take some of the sting out of the recent cuts in state support, they said. The plan would move tuition outside the state budget process and would let SUNY and CUNY receive and distribute revenues from tuition without an appropriation from the Legislature. 
 The governor's plan calls for tuition to change incrementally, with an annual ceiling of 2.5 times the five-year average rise in the Higher Education Price Index, a nationwide inflation index related to campus expenses. (Currently, such a cap would be around 10 percent a year.)
 Although Nancy L. Zimpher, the SUNY chancellor, and Dr. Goldstein of CUNY insist that the tuition increases are unlikely to approach that ceiling, critics of the plan worry about the temptation to push tuition ever higher. 
 ''My fear is that over the next few years, higher education becomes unaffordable and inaccessible to large numbers of poor and working-class families,'' Ms. Glick said. 
 Taking another page from the commission's report, Mr. Paterson's proposal would also give colleges and universities the freedom to move more quickly in making purchases and signing contracts. The plan would do away with the advance approval of contracts by the Office of the State Comptroller but would provide for ''post-audits'' instead. 
 And the governor's plan would enable institutions to generate money by using one of their greatest assets: land. If a developer wanted to lease land from a college, for example, a new three-member ''asset maximization board'' would decide on proposals within 45 days, as opposed to the 12 months that it can take for approval from the Legislature. 
 By SUNY's own estimate, the tuition flexibility and regulatory relief under the plan would create 2,200 faculty positions, along with 7,000 staff positions and 43,000 construction jobs. ''This will positively impact every community in the state with the creation of tens of thousands of new jobs and through billions of dollars in local investment,'' Dr. Zimpher said.
 But Senator Stavisky questioned the idea of using public colleges' land for private ends, along with the educational mission of some recent land-use proposals, from building a wind farm to housing for the elderly. 
 ''I have a major problem permitting the lease of SUNY property,'' she said, ''because it's not SUNY property; it's taxpayer property.'' 
 Despite the resistance the proposal is sure to encounter in the Legislature, some education officials were buoyed by the fact that some of the commission's ideas would get public discussion.
 ''We may not get it this year,'' said Carl T. Hayden, chairman of the SUNY board of trustees, ''but this is just the beginning of a serious assault on the constraints that presently bind us.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Matthew Goldstein, the CUNY chancellor, said that being able to charge different tuition for different programs would be helpful.
 Gov. Eliot Spitzer discussing SUNY at a news conference in 2008. He wondered why New York did not have a Berkeley. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); SEX SCANDALS (55%); SCANDALS (55%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%); DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



425 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Excise Tax Loses Support Amid White House Push

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
An agreement to tax high-cost, employer-sponsored health insurance plans, announced with fanfare by the White House and labor unions last month, is losing support from labor leaders, who say the proposal is too high a price to pay for the limited health care package they expect to emerge from Congress.
 But the White House is still urging Congress to adopt the excise tax as a way to help pay for President Obama's ambitious health care proposals. 
 With support for the tax eroding, Congressional leaders are searching for alternative sources of revenue.
 The search has some urgency because Mr. Obama has said he hopes House and Senate Democrats can resolve their differences and come up with a final version of the legislation before he convenes a bipartisan meeting on the issue on Feb. 25.
 When the tax agreement was announced on Jan. 14, White House officials described it as a breakthrough that would help clear the way for passage of sweeping health legislation.
 Besides producing a substantial amount of revenue, they said, the excise tax on the most expensive insurance plans would slow the growth of health costs by giving consumers a powerful incentive to shop for cheaper policies.
 Under the agreement, which builds on a provision in the larger health bill passed by the Senate on Dec. 24, the federal government would impose a 40 percent tax on the value of employer-sponsored health coverage exceeding certain thresholds. To win the endorsement of labor leaders, White House officials agreed to changes in the tax that would lessen its impact on workers, including union members with collectively bargained health benefits.
 But labor leaders have backed away from the proposal in the wake of the special Senate election in Massachusetts.
 ''I do not believe there will be an excise tax enacted,'' said Larry Cohen, president of the Communications Workers of America. ''It appears that the administration and Congress will be taking a much more modest approach to health care reform. The cost and value of such reform would not justify using an excise tax.''
 A wide range of House Democrats continue to criticize the tax as bad policy, even with the changes negotiated by labor leaders and the White House. 
 Moreover, House Democrats said, the tax is bad politics because it would set the middle class against the poor -- people struggling to keep health insurance against people struggling to get it.
 Revenue raised by the tax would help finance coverage for people who are uninsured.
 Reid H. Cherlin, a White House spokesman, said he was not aware of any erosion in support for the tax among administration officials.
 ''The president,'' he said, ''continues to believe that charging insurance companies a fee for their most expensive polices -- an idea that has the support of experts from both parties -- will help achieve the core goal of health insurance reform: putting downward pressure on long-term health costs while ensuring that we aren't placing new burdens on hard-working middle-class families.''
 But as a practical matter, labor leaders said, the excise tax was killed by the election in Massachusetts, where the Republican candidate, Scott Brown, won the Senate seat long held by Edward M. Kennedy.
 In opinion polls and in conversations with lawmakers, Massachusetts voters expressed deep hostility to the excise tax.
 Members of union households voted for Mr. Brown over his Democratic opponent, Martha Coakley, according to a telephone poll conducted on election night for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. He won 49 percent of the vote from union households, while she got 46 percent, the survey found.
 Michael A. Podhorzer, deputy political director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said Massachusetts should be a warning to Democrats, like ''a canary in a coal mine.''
 ''Fully 42 percent of voters believed the health care bill would tax employer health benefits, and these voters supported Brown by two to one,'' Mr. Podhorzer said.
 Because details of the proposed tax were complex and continually changing, it was difficult for people to know whether they would be affected. Technically, insurers would be responsible for paying the tax, but economists say the cost would be passed on to workers. 
 Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, supports the tax but said the outlook for it was ''very cloudy.'' 
 The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, said, ''The excise tax has no support, very little support, in our caucus.''
 At meetings of the House Democratic Caucus, lawmakers from Massachusetts, including Representatives Edward J. Markey and Richard E. Neal, said they were struck by the vehemence of opposition to the tax in their districts.
 Mr. Markey recalled that a constituent had poked him in the chest and said: ''Eddie, I've voted for you my whole life. But if you think you will tax my benefits and give the money to Ben Nelson in Nebraska, you're crazy.'' Senator Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, voted for the bill after it was rewritten to provide extra Medicaid money to his state.
 Labor leaders described the excise tax as part of a deal that emerged last month from marathon negotiations with the White House. Other provisions, not made public at the time, included a national health insurance exchange, or marketplace, and tougher penalties on employers who do not offer insurance to their employees.
 The Senate bill called for an insurance exchange in each state. But labor leaders and administration officials said a single national exchange could exert more power over insurance companies and provide better protection to consumers.
 Under the Senate bill, if an employer with more than 50 workers does not offer coverage, and if any of its workers obtain subsidized coverage through an exchange, the company would have to pay a penalty -- a tax -- of up to $750 for each full-time employee. Labor leaders and White House officials agreed that the penalty should be increased to about $2,000 per employee.
 Congressional Democrats have not agreed on a source of revenue to replace the tax on high-cost health plans. One possibility is to increase the Medicare payroll tax and extend it to some investment income, like dividends and capital gains. The payroll tax now applies only to wages. 
 In its annual report last week, the president's Council of Economic Advisers defended the excise tax. Insurers, they said, will hold down premiums to avoid the tax, and workers will get higher wages because their health benefits will cost less.
 But Denise Mitchell, a spokeswoman for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said it was more likely that insurers would reduce premiums by cutting benefits and by charging higher co-payments and deductibles.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Kent Conrad and Speaker Nancy Pelosi see the tax's prospects as doubtful.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EXCISE TAX (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); KENT CONRAD (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



426 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: The Power of Art

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
As it turns out, the very rich did feel the pain of the global financial crisis -- just not for long. 
 Last year, the Mei Moses Fine Art Index, which tracks changes in the price of artworks at auction, fell by 24 percent. Its subindex for postwar and contemporary art, the preferred aesthetic of rich young financiers, was down a cold 30 percent. But earlier this month, an anonymous art lover paid a record $104.3 million to scoop up ''Walking Man I,'' a 1960 sculpture by Alberto Giacometti. 
 Art, of course, is a window into the soul. It builds meaning from thin air. It measures the pulse of culture, the heartbeat of civilization. All that. But it also is a neat indicator of the unique economics that govern the lives of the Masters of the Universe who buy it. 
 Works of art are among those peculiar commodities whose appeal grow as their prices rise. They are Veblen goods, named after Thorstein Veblen, the economist who posited that conspicuous consumption has an inherent purpose as a signal of status. They work a little like that short-lived ''I Am Rich'' iPhone application, which for $999 flashed the picture of a red gem. 
 Evolutionary biologists argue these conspicuous purchases do the same job as peacock tails -- signaling to peahens that they are fit enough to expend an inordinate amount of energy on producing colorful feathers. The French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu argued that aesthetic choices are social markers with which the powerful signal their power and set themselves apart from other, inferior groups. Anybody can buy stocks. Hedge fund managers can buy pickled sharks by Damien Hirst.
 That's why the record set by Giacometti's ''Walking Man I'' is so significant. Not only does it signal that the plutocracy believes it successfully eluded financial Armageddon. At a stroke, the sale made clear that the rich are back in their rightful place at the apex of the world. 
 The 6-foot-tall Giacometti was the piece to prove it. The bronze was cast as part of a commission to plant several of Giacometti's statues outside the 60-story Chase Manhattan tower in Lower Manhattan. (Giacometti pulled out for unspecified reasons.) As the Sotheby's auction blurb noted, the gaunt stick figure represents ''both a humble image of an ordinary man, and a potent symbol of humanity.'' It would have made a perfect illustration of the relationship between mankind and banking. EDUARDO PORTER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (51%); BIOLOGY (51%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



427 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Corn and Fuel Groups Weigh In on Ethanol

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Sensible Rules for Ethanol'' (editorial, Feb. 11):
 While American corn farmers are pleased the Environmental Protection Agency recognizes that corn ethanol offers significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions compared with gasoline, we disagree strongly with its dependence on -- and your support for -- the theory of international indirect land use change. 
 Upwardly trending corn yields disprove this theory. In 2009, for example, farmers grew enough corn to break 2007's production record, and we did so harvesting nearly seven million fewer acres. 
 As a multigenerational family farmer, I'm proud of our work, and I know that innovative practices and new technology will help us continue to meet demand in a sustainable manner. 
 Those who wrote the studies you cite should get out into the fields and talk to the many farmers who are not only beating the Department of Agriculture's average corn yield, but also doubling it in some circumstances. They will see the great potential the Corn Belt has for feeding and fueling the world.
 Darrin Ihnen President National Corn Growers Association Hurley, S.D., Feb. 11, 2010
 To the Editor:
 While praising the Environmental Protection Agency's recent decision supporting the expansion of biofuels production, you continue to insist on a direct connection between America's production of corn and land use impacts in sovereign countries elsewhere in the world. 
 These so-called indirect land use impacts have questionable scientific validity. In fact, more than 100 scientists and Ph.D.'s have stated: ''The ability to predict this alleged effect depends on using an economic model to predict worldwide carbon effects, and the outcomes are unusually sensitive to the assumptions made by the researchers conducting the model runs. In addition, this field of science is in its nascent stage, is controversial in much of the scientific community, and is only being enforced against biofuels.''
 Further, even with indirect land use impacts the E.P.A. found significant carbon reductions from various ethanol pathways, with some corn ethanol pathways demonstrating a 37 percent reduction in carbon. 
 In a rush to continue denigrating American agriculture, you ignore land use and carbon impacts of oil production, the increasing efficiency of corn and ethanol production in the United States and the fact that logging, cattle ranching and other activities have a more destructive impact on tropical forests than anything else. 
 You also don't note that deforestation rates in nations like Brazil have declined while ethanol production rates have soared in recent years.
 It is truly disappointing that you continue to endorse oft-challenged and unproven theories like international indirect land use change to penalize American biofuels to the advantage of imported oil.
 Bob Dinneen President and Chief Executive Renewable Fuels Association Washington, Feb. 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHANOL (90%); BIOMASS (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); DEFORESTATION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); TRENDS (76%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (75%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RAIN FORESTS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CORN GROWERS ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



428 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Drug Firms Apply Brand To Generics

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
Some prestigious brand-name pharmaceutical companies that once looked askance at the high-volume, low-cost business of generic drugs are now becoming major purveyors of generic medicines.
 Just don't call them no-name drugs.
 Giants like Sanofi-Aventis and GlaxoSmithKline are not looking to enter the commodity generics market in the United States, where chain pharmacies often determine which generics they offer based on the lowest available price -- and where consumers often view generic makers as interchangeable.
 Instead, the big drug makers are pursuing a growing consumer base in emerging markets like Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin America where many people pay out of pocket for their medicines but often cannot afford expensive brand-name drugs.
 And, in some emerging markets, where the fear of counterfeit drugs or low-quality medicines runs high, consumers who can afford it are willing to pay a premium for generics from well-known makers, industry analysts said. These products are known as company-branded generics, or branded generics. They carry the name of a trusted local or foreign drug maker stamped on the package, seen as a sign of authenticity and quality control. 
 ''We are able to create different tiers of products at prices they haven't previously seen with our stamp of approval,'' said Andrew P. Witty, the chief executive of GlaxoSmithKline.
 Last year, Glaxo bought a stake in Aspen, a generic maker in South Africa, and signed agreements with Dr. Reddy's, an Indian generic firm, to sell their products in emerging markets.
 Under the distribution agreement, the Dr. Reddy's products are subject to Glaxo quality control checks and, eventually, will carry a Glaxo logo, a company spokeswoman said.
 Until recently, many brand-name drug makers invested the bulk of their research and marketing dollars in the development of blockbuster drugs, only to cede their intellectual property and market share to lower-priced generic competitors once patents expired. But now, with an estimated $89 billion in brand-name drug sales in the United States at risk to generic competition over the next five years, according to IMS Health, some drug makers are selling generics to offset revenue declines -- as well as wring some post-patent profits from the innovative drugs they developed.
 It is a topic sure to be discussed at the Generic Pharmaceutical Association's annual meeting, which begins Tuesday in Naples, Fla. 
 ''It definitely represents a change in thinking,'' said David Simmons, the president of Pfizer's established products business unit.
 That recently started division sells off-patent brand-name Pfizer products like the antidepressant Zoloft. It also markets generic versions of those off-patent drugs under its own Greenstone label, and distributes a number of generic drugs licensed from a few other producers. 
 In the last year, Pfizer signed licensing deals with three India-based generic makers to sell those companies' pills and injectable drugs in the United States and other markets, adding more than 200 products to the company's generic portfolio. Pfizer said its Greenstone generic subsidiary had become the world's seventh-largest purveyor of generic medicines, as measured by number of prescriptions dispensed.
 While drug sales in developed markets like North America have low single-digit annual growth, emerging markets, including India, China, Russia and Brazil, have growth in the midteens, said Doug Long, vice president for industry relations at IMS Health, a health information firm. 
 As a result, some drug makers are pursuing a two-tiered strategy in developing markets: selling their own lines of more expensive name-brand products to the more affluent, as well as offering midpriced branded generic lines that include prescription and over-the-counter medicines for the broader market.
 Branded generics can give prominent drug makers a way to capitalize on those markets without having to compete with no-name generic producers whose selling point is rock-bottom pricing. Company-branded generics can charge more for the promise of quality.
 ''It's an economic opportunity for Watson and Pfizer and Sanofi and Teva,'' said Paul M. Bisaro, the chief executive of Watson Pharmaceuticals, a leading generic maker. ''They have a reputation that says, 'You can count on us.' ''
 Watson itself had primarily been focused on the United States market, but last year the company spent $1.75 billion in cash and stock to acquire Arrow, a generic maker that operates in 20 countries, Mr. Bisaro said.
 And in markets that may need antibiotics and antifungal drugs more than quality-of-life drugs like sleep aids or erectile dysfunction pills, there is a logic to branded drug makers' acquiring local generic makers or licensing generic products to tailor their product portfolios to the local market. 
 Last year, for example, Sanofi-Aventis spent more than 1.5 billion euros to buy Zentiva, a leading Czech generic maker; Medley, the leading producer of generics in Brazil; and Laboratorios Kendrick, a generic producer in Mexico. Sanofi is now the world's 11th-biggest generics player in terms of sales, the company said. 
 ''For me, the interest in Medley, Kendrick and Zentiva is to acquire a portfolio of affordable medicines, recognizing that outside of the United States and Europe people are really paying for medicines out of their own pocket,'' said Christopher A. Viehbacher, the chief executive of Sanofi-Aventis. ''Therefore you have to have medicines that fit the pocketbook and, to me, generics really fit the bill.''
 Medley even has its own generic brand identity, Mr. Viehbacher said, which includes mint-green packaging that is a visible logo on pharmacy shelves.
 The Swiss drug maker Novartis, which unified its generic business in 2003 under the name Sandoz, recognized the consumer interest and business opportunity in generic drugs early on.
 ''In the beginning, of course, especially other pharmaceutical companies were very skeptical about it,'' said Dr. Daniel Vasella, the chairman of the board and former chief executive of Novartis. ''Some competitors said that this was not right to enter a field that was competing with our own.''
 Now, with organic growth and the acquisition of branded generics like the German maker Hexal, Sandoz is the world's second-largest purveyor of generic drugs, after Teva.
 Branded generics may appeal to leading drug makers because they represent a hybrid of the generic and name-brand models -- allowing drug makers to use their existing commercial distribution system and marketing skills to sell premium-priced generics as if they were brand-name drugs, said Ronny Gal, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. 
 Under this approach, manufacturers or distributors advertise branded generics. Company sales representatives visit doctors and pharmacists to market them. And, in emerging markets where government health coverage and private insurance are less common, consumers who pay out of pocket for their own medicines would rather spend on names they can trust, Mr. Gal said in an interview last month. 
 ''Patients prefer brands,'' he wrote in a note to investors last year, ''and as long as they are the main payers, they will continue to use branded generics.''
 Still, branded generics may not be a diversification strategy for the long term.
 Some companies are moving into branded generics as a short-term tactic to make up for revenue shortfalls and capture near-term growth in emerging markets, Mr. Gal said.
 But as government health care programs and health insurers in emerging markets develop further, consumers could be encouraged or required to switch from midpriced branded generics to low-cost no-name generics, he said. He estimated that it would take at least a decade for that to happen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sanofi-Aventis's chief, Christopher A. Viehbacher, bought Medley of Brazil, which has its own brand identity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS MORI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (94%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (94%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (94%); GENERIC DRUGS (93%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); BRANDING (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PATENTS (89%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (78%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); MARKET SHARE (75%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (73%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); COUNTERFEIT DRUGS (73%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (73%); PHARMACIES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); COUNTERFEITING (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); QUALITY CONTROL (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (57%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (50%)

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (92%); PFIZER INC (85%); SANOFI SA (84%); IMS HEALTH INC (52%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (92%); GSK (LSE) (92%); BIOC (EGX) (92%); PFZ (LSE) (85%); PFEB (BRU) (85%); PFE (NYSE) (85%); SNY (NYSE) (84%); SANF (BIT) (84%); SAN (PAR) (84%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (85%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (51%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (69%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



429 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Fertilizer Maker Buys Rival for $4.1 Billion

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: OSLO 

 BODY:
A Norwegian fertilizer producer, Yara International, agreed on Monday to buy Iowa-based Terra Industries for $4.1 billion to increase its presence in the United States, as rivals look to join forces to gain size and reach. 
 Last month, CF Industries Holdings withdrew its yearlong hostile bid to buy Terra.
 That battle, along with other acquisitions and speculation about mergers, has kept the fertilizer sector in the investor spotlight, despite a sharp fall in prices last year as the global economic crisis hit.
 Analysts and producers expect a major rebound in demand in 2010 as farmers rush to replenish their soil nutrient levels, which could lead to more mergers or acquisitions.
 The chief executive of Yara, Joergen Ole Haslestad, said on Monday that the all-cash acquisition of Terra ''will create a clear global No. 1 in the fertilizer industry.''
 Energy-intensive fertilizer producers in North America have become increasingly attractive, Yara said, because of ''structural changes'' in American energy markets as a boom in unconventional gas output curbs natural gas prices in the United States.
 Yara's offer values Terra at $41.1 a share and represents a premium of 23.6 percent compared with Friday's closing price.
 The enlarged company will have about 30 percent share in the United States fertilizer market and a 8 percent global market share. Yara said it expected some $60 million annual savings from the deal.
 The chief executive of Terra, Michael L. Bennett will become an executive vice president of Yara and head the Norwegian company's North America division.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERTILIZER MFG (94%); FERTILIZERS (92%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (90%); MERGERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (71%); MARKET SHARE (58%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%)

COMPANY: YARA INTERNATIONAL ASA (93%); CF INDUSTRIES HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: YAR (OSL) (93%); CF (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325311 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2873 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZERS (93%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (93%); NAICS325312 PHOSPHATIC FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2874 PHOSPHATIC FERTILIZERS (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL L BENNETT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); NORWAY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



430 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Know Your Onions, Campaign Asks Consumers

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Remember how the Florida citrus folks used to proclaim that orange juice was not just for breakfast anymore? Arriving now is a campaign that declares French fried onions are not just for green bean casseroles anymore.
 The campaign is for French's French Fried Onions, sold by the French's Foods division of Reckitt Benckiser. The product has been a crucial ingredient in the mainstay side dish, concocted in the kitchens of the Campbell Soup Company, that is known as classic green bean casserole, holiday green bean casserole, original green bean casserole or famous green bean casserole. 
 The recipe was created by Campbell in 1955 to stimulate sales of its condensed cream of mushroom soup. As the leading brand of French fried onions, French's -- known previously as Durkee's -- benefited mightily from the popularity of the recipe. 
 But there is only so far being an ingredient in someone else's recipe can take you -- particularly when the recipe is associated with special meals, at Thanksgiving and Christmas, rather than year-round usage. 
 The campaign spotlights the leading role played by French's French Fried Onions in a recipe of its own creation, called Crunchy Onion Chicken, which is intended as an everyday dish. The recipe features crushed French fried onions as a coating for chicken that has been dipped in egg batter, which is then baked.
 (Those with long memories may recall a recipe for a baked chicken dish from the Kellogg Company that uses crushed Kellogg's Corn Flakes in similar fashion.)
 The Crunchy Onion Chicken recipe was introduced in magazine advertisements in 2005. It is intended to be a main course that is simple and fast to prepare. 
 The campaign includes television commercials, the first for the product in five years; video clips online; recipes on two Web sites, frenchs.com and frenchsfoods.com; a cooking contest; a promotion with a $25,000 grand prize; and a public relations effort. Social media may be next.
 The media budget for the campaign is estimated at $5 million, with an additional $15 million or so devoted to the remaining marketing elements.
 Several agencies are collaborating on the campaign. Euro RSCG Worldwide in New York, part of Havas, is handling the creative assignment. Zenith Media in New York, part of the ZenithOptimedia unit of the Publicis Groupe, is the media agency.
 The agencies working on the contest, named the French's Cook-Off, are Source Marketing in Norwalk, Conn.; Genuine Interactive in Boston; and the Bender Hammerling Group in Montclair, N.J.
 The campaign is indicative of the stepped-up activity among marketers of prosaic pantry products during the economic downturn. They are trying to capitalize on the fact that more consumers are eating at home because it is usually cheaper than dining out.
 One reason families enjoy going out to eat is because each family member ''can find something on the menu'' he or she likes, says Dana Lawnzak, senior brand manager for French's French Fried Onions at the Reckitt Benckiser food division in Chester, N.J.
 By comparison, there is usually only one main dish prepared when a family dines at home and it becomes a challenge to find something ''everyone likes,'' she adds.
 ''Maybe more now than ever,'' Ms. Lawnzak says, the campaign is ''trying to solve that dinner dilemma for mom: 'What am I going to make for dinner tonight?' '' Ms. Lawnzak says.
 (Ms. Lawnzak uses ''mom'' to reflect that most of the cooking is done by the wife and mother of the house. As a result, the campaign is aimed at mothers, ages 25 to 54.)
 The campaign presents French's French Fried Onions as part of the French's line-up, which includes products like French's mustards and French's Worcestershire sauce. The ads use a theme, ''Happy starts here,'' that was introduced last year for the other French's products.
 ''It's the first time we've folded French Fried Onions under the French's umbrella,'' Ms. Lawnzak says, which should be a more efficient way to promote the French fried onions.
 The decision to expand beyond the casserole is not meant to denigrate that dish.
 ''Everyone knows the green bean casserole,'' Ms. Lawnzak says, praising it as ''a great holiday tradition.''
 But ''extending usage to the everyday has been a bit of a challenge,'' she adds. ''We've been looking for new usages probably since 1955.''
 In research on the Crunchy Onion Chicken recipe, ''what we heard from moms is that older kids, even younger kids, like it,'' Ms. Lawnzak says. ''The onion flavor gives it a kick.''
 The print ads did well by the recipe for a while, ''but we wanted to go full on,'' she adds, so the television commercial was created.
 The spot is about as mainstream a commercial as you see nowadays. It begins with two children ignoring a mother's voice calling, ''Dinner's ready.'' But they pay attention when she adds, ''It's French's Crunchy Onion Chicken.''
 On comes a female announcer who declares how the recipe makes for ''a quick and easy dinner'' and describes the few steps it requires. The commercial ends with the entire family -- two children, mother and father -- seated together at a table, eating together and laughing.
 ''Everyone's happy'' when dinner is made with French's French Fried Onions, the announcer concludes, adding the ''Happy starts here'' theme and a helpful hint: ''Look for it in the canned vegetable aisle.'' (The onions, that is, not happiness.)
 ''It may not be the glitziest'' commercial, Ms. Lawnzak says, but it ''stays true to the brand values,'' which a flashier spot might not.
 Besides, says Kersten Rivas, North American brand director for the Reckitt Benckiser account at Euro RSCG New York, the goal is to generate ''broad awareness'' for French's French Fried Onions, which a commercial as straightforward as this one should be able to achieve.
 Having the recipe appear in the magazine ads helped volume grow for ''a number of years,'' Ms. Rivas says, ''but it plateaued.''
 ''As soon as you introduce the idea of the recipe,'' consumers ''immediately want to try it,'' she adds, so ''taking the leap from print to TV'' should increase sales as more consumers are exposed to the new use for the product.
 The commercial is ''a big step forward for a brand considered dated and a bit sleepy,'' Ms. Rivas says, as is selling the French fried onions with the ''Happy starts here'' French's brand theme.
 ''One of the things we've been trying to figure out is how to create a mega-brand under the French's banner,'' she adds. '''Happy starts here' is such a wonderful platform.''
 For French's French Fried Onions, the crucial word in the theme is ''here,'' Ms. Rivas says, as in a consumer's home, because the product can offer ''a break from the usual staples that show up on the dinner table.''
 ''Moms are really stressed over what to make that's familiar enough but not the same-old, same-old,'' she adds. ''Crunchy Onion Chicken bridges that.''
 The commercial is scheduled to run through August on national cable channels like A&E, Bio, CMT, Hallmark Channel, Lifetime Movie Network, Nick at Nite, SOAPnet and truTV. The spot will run as a video clip on Web sites that are part of online networks like Brightroll, Lotame, Tidal TV, 24/7 Real Media and Undertone. 
 Next up for French's after the French Fried Onions campaign will be the introduction of a product called French's Honey Mustard Dipping Sauce, Ms. Rivas says. It, too, will be sold under the ''Happy starts here'' theme.
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); THANKSGIVING (77%); CHRISTMAS (75%); BUDGETS (66%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (63%); SOCIAL MEDIA (62%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (62%); FAMILY (62%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (58%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (85%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (83%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (81%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (63%); RECKITT BENCKISER GROUP PLC (58%); HAVAS SA (52%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (51%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (85%); CPB (NYSE) (83%); PUB (PAR) (81%); RB (LSE) (58%); HAV (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (85%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (85%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (85%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (83%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (52%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (85%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); CONNECTICUT, USA (65%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



431 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 POPE MEETS IRISH BISHOPS 
 To Discuss Clergy Abuse
 Pope Benedict XVI began two days of discussions in Vatican City, meeting individually with 24 Irish bishops on a clerical abuse scandal. The meetings are being held in response to a report issued in Ireland in November that accused church leaders and the police there of covering up decades of child sex abuse by priests in Dublin. PAGE A4 
 ADVISER AT LARGE 
 Jorge Puello, a man who falsely portrayed himself as the lawyer of 10 Americans imprisoned in Haiti for trying to take children out of the country, remains at large with charges pending against him in El Salvador. PAGE A6 
 BELGIAN TRAIN CRASH KILLS 18
 Belgium's deadliest rail accident in 25 years occurred during the morning rush hour when two trains collided head on. The accident -- its cause still unclear -- killed at least 18 people and injured 80. PAGE A6 
 DUTCH BAN EEL FISHING
 Following a decision that fishing for eels will be banned from September to November, Dutch inland eel fishermen, a disappearing breed like their catch, hope to negotiate an alternative in order to preserve their livelihood. PAGE A7 
 TALIBAN BOMBERS INEFFECTIVE
 Analysts say the Taliban no longer have foreign expertise in preparing suicide bombers and have a hard time finding competent recruits. The combination has reduced the effectiveness of suicide bombings as a terror tactic. PAGE A9 
 Missionaries Face Scrutiny A4
 Sentence in Australian Terror A9
 Iran Dismisses Torture Charges A10
 National 
 HEALTH PLAN TAX LOSES
 Support of Labor Leaders
 An agreement announced with fanfare by the White House and labor unions last month to tax high-cost employer-sponsored health insurance plans is losing support from labor leaders. They say the proposal is too high a price to pay for the limited health care package they expect to emerge from Congress. PAGE A16 
 BOISE HOUSE CAUSES STIR
 In 2005, J. R. Simplot donated his home in Boise, Idaho, in the hopes that it would serve as the new governor's mansion. Now the house, which sits on 40 acres, may be sold because of the high cost of watering the estate's enormous lawn. 
 PAGE A11 
 STUDENT CAN SUE PRINCIPAL
 A South Florida teenager, Katherine Evans, was told she could proceed with a lawsuit filed against the principal of her school. Ms. Evans, who was accused of ''cyberbullying'' and suspended for three days for creating a Facebook page criticizing a teacher, is seeking to have her suspension expunged from her disciplinary record. PAGE A12 
 KEN STARR LEADS BAYLOR
 Kenneth W. Starr, whose investigation of the Whitewater land deal and the Monica Lewinsky scandal led to President Bill Clinton's impeachment, was named as the 14th president of Baylor University. PAGE A13 
 New York 
 IN THE CITY, MANY TYPES 
 Of Accidental Death
 Accidental deaths occur with great frequency in New York City. Roughly 6,000 codes are used to define deaths by accident. Dangers include exposure to falling at construction sites, being run over by cars, buses or taxis to many others. PAGE A18 
 Business
 TECH GIANTS BID TO COMPETE 
 For Mobile Device Sales
 Some of the world's most prominent tech companies went to the world's largest mobile technology conference in Barcelona with a message: they are willing to abandon tradition if it means getting another shot at the fast-growing mobile device market and blunting the advance of companies like Apple and Google. PAGE B1
 TURNING TO GENERICS
 Some prestigious brand-name pharmaceutical companies are now becoming major purveyors of generic medicines in emerging markets like Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin America, where many people pay out of pocket for their medicines but often cannot afford expensive brand-name drugs. PAGE B1
 New Complaints on Toyotas B3 
 Arts
 FOR OSCAR HOPEFULS, 
 A Season Stretched
 Traces of awards fatigue, faint but undeniable, crept into the annual luncheon for Oscar nominees in a Hollywood prize season that has been stretched by two weeks to avoid having Academy Awards night collide with the Vancouver Olympics. Page C1
 TAKING ON CONSPIRACIES
 In his new book, ''Voodoo Histories,'' the journalist David Aaronovitch surveys the many conspiracy theories that have percolated through politics and popular culture over the last century. Review by Michiko Kakutani. PAGE C1
 Sports
 WARRANT ISSUED FOR CYCLIST
 In French Hacking Inquiry
 A French judge issued an arrest warrant last month for Floyd Landis, the United States cyclist who was stripped of his 2006 Tour de France title after testing positive for performance-enhancing drugs, in connection with a computer hacking case, a spokeswoman for a French prosecutor said. PAGE B10
 A WESTMINSTER DEBUT
 Three buhunds (farm dogs in Norway) were hours from being the first of their breed to compete at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show. PAGE B10
 Science Times
 ADDING ROCKET MAN 
 To His Resume
 The coming debate over the future of the American space program will, in no small part, revolve around this question: Should the United States hire Elon Musk, at a cost of a few billion dollars, to run a taxi service for American astronauts? PAGE D1
 CLUES OF ANCIENT MARINERS
 Stone tools found on the Greek island of Crete, archaeologists say, are at least 130,000 years old. This is considered strong evidence for the earliest known seafaring in the Mediterranean and cause for rethinking the maritime capabilities of prehuman cultures. PAGE D1
 HOW SPORTS BENEFIT GIRLS
 Two separate studies by economists offer the strongest evidence yet that team sports can result in lifelong improvements to educational, work and health prospects for girls. PAGE D5
 Op-ed
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23 
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A23 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SEX SCANDALS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (88%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); TORTURE (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (71%); TALIBAN (71%); LITIGATION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); LIFE INSURANCE (68%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (65%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (64%); GOVERNORS (63%); CYBERBULLYING (60%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (58%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (92%); BILL CLINTON (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%) IDAHO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (92%); HOLY SEE (88%); BELGIUM (87%); HAITI (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



432 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: How to Watch the Banks

BYLINE: By HENRY M. PAULSON Jr.. 
Henry M. Paulson Jr., the secretary of the Treasury from 2006 to 2009, is the author of ''On the Brink: Inside the Race to Stop the Collapse of the Global Financial System.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 SIXTEEN months ago, our financial system teetered on the brink of collapse. The Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation took actions that were unpopular and previously unthinkable -- but absolutely necessary to stave off an economic catastrophe in which unemployment could have exceeded the 25 percent level of the Great Depression. 
 These temporary actions have ended or will end. And our financial system is much more stable. But it is critical that we learn from the financial crisis and put in place reforms to avert a repeat of 2008 or something even worse. 
 Congress must pass financial regulatory reform. Delays are creating uncertainty, undermining the ability of financial institutions to increase lending to the businesses of all sizes that want to invest and fuel our recovery. Our overriding goal in restructuring our financial architecture should be that taxpayers never again have to save a failing financial institution. 
 The debate recently has centered on big banks and trading risks. I agree that big banks do pose a dangerously large risk to our financial system, and I am troubled that concentration in the industry has only increased since the crisis. But if we are to protect our system from falling into trouble again, we need broad-based reform that covers all types of financial institutions and all forms of potentially risky activities. 
 For example, the most recent proposal by the Obama administration -- to bar big banks from trading driven by other than customer-related activity -- would not have prevented the collapse of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Lehman Brothers, American International Group, Washington Mutual, Wachovia or other institutions whose failure contributed to the crisis. Rather than dictating a set of rules that will become out of date as the markets evolve, policy makers should devise legislation that ensures that regulators have the authority to tackle the issue of size and all potential systemic risks. 
 This calls for two vital changes. First, we must create a systemic risk regulator to monitor the stability of the markets and to restrain or end any activity at any financial firm that threatens the broader market. Second, the government must have resolution authority to impose an orderly liquidation on any failing financial institution to minimize its impact on the rest of the system. 
 Together, these two reforms will enable the regulatory system to better prevent the kinds of excesses that fueled our recent crisis, restore market discipline and keep the failure of a large institution from bringing down the rest of the system.
 A single agency responsible for systemic risk would be accountable in a way that no regulator was in the run-up to the 2008 crisis. With access to all necessary information to monitor the markets, this regulator would have a better chance of identifying and limiting the impact of future speculative bubbles. 
 Given our global markets, we have to address the issue of size on a multinational level. We should work through the Financial Stability Board, a global regulatory agency with headquarters in Switzerland, to establish an international agreement calling for stronger capital and liquidity requirements for large, complex institutions. The need for adequate liquidity cushions is not as well understood, but in my judgment it is even more important than the need for banks to maintain higher capital levels. 
 As for our domestic approach, we now have different government regulators focusing on the individual trees, and we need one regulator accountable for looking at the entire forest. My preference is for the Federal Reserve to be the systemic risk regulator, because the responsibility for identifying and limiting potential problems is a natural complement to its role in monetary policy.
 Congress, however, seems to be moving toward having a council of regulators perform this function. While that is not my preference, I believe a council can be workable if it is led by either the Treasury secretary or the Fed chairman, and is structured to ensure that strong decisions are reached quickly in a crisis. Too many such panels in government act by consensus, allowing a single member to render the council immobile. 
 No systemic risk regulator, no matter how powerful, can be relied on to see everything and prevent future problems. That's why our regulatory system must reinforce the responsibility of lenders, investors, borrowers and all market participants to analyze risk and make informed decisions. This is possible only if everyone understands that no financial institution is too big to fail, and that its investors and creditors will have to bear the consequences if it does. 
 To address the moral hazard issue, the government needs broad-based authority to liquidate any failing financial institution without going through the bankruptcy process, which is not well-suited for such complex firms in the midst of a financial crisis. We must send a clear signal to market participants that whenever this process is put in motion, the outcome is liquidation; we cannot leave any hope that we would inject taxpayer dollars to preserve the failing firm in its present form.
 Winding down a large institution is difficult and time-consuming. The regulators with this responsibility will need to be trained to do the job. And we must also require all large firms to develop a road map for their liquidation well ahead of any failure.These are not the only necessary reforms -- we must also address regulation of derivatives and our over-reliance on credit ratings agencies. Over time, we have to simplify the patchwork quilt of regulatory agencies and improve transparency so that consumers and investors can punish excesses through their own informed investing decisions. We have to examine the many policies that favor homeownership, and recalibrate our support for them. We must also tackle what is by far our greatest economic challenge -- the reduction of budget deficits -- a big part of which will involve reforming our major entitlement programs: Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. 
 It has been a difficult, and humbling, two years for our nation. But every other major country has more significant economic problems than we do and, with the resilience of our economy and the ingenuity of our people, we can meet our challenges. Nonetheless, we must not lose our sense of urgency, or the political courage to make the necessary reforms to ensure our long-term prosperity. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (66%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (54%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (91%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (66%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



433 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Fears That Iran Is Headed Toward a Military Dictatorship

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia 

 BODY:
The United States fears that Iran is drifting toward a military dictatorship, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said Monday, with the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps seizing control of large swaths of Iran's political, military and economic establishment.
 Mrs. Clinton encouraged Iran's religious and political leaders to rise up against the Revolutionary Guards, coming as close as any senior administration official has to inviting political upheaval in the country. 
 ''That is how we see it,'' Mrs. Clinton said at a televised town hall-style meeting of students at a university in Doha, Qatar. ''We see that the government of Iran, the supreme leader, the president, the Parliament is being supplanted and that Iran is moving toward a military dictatorship.''
 Her blunt comments carried particular resonance because of where they were delivered, in Qatar, a Persian Gulf emirate with close ties to Iran, and later in the day, in Saudi Arabia. But they built on the administration's strategy of branding the Revolutionary Guards as an ''entitled class'' that is the principal culprit behind Iran's nuclear proliferation and political repression. 
 The United States is tailoring a new set of stricter United Nations sanctions aimed at the Revolutionary Guards, which Mrs. Clinton said had accelerated its marginalization of religious and political leaders since the Iranian presidential elections in June. 
 Iran's leading clerics and political figures must ''take back the authority which they should be exercising on behalf of the people,'' Mrs. Clinton said at a news conference after a nearly four-hour meeting with King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia at his desert camp outside the capital, Riyadh.
 It was an intense day of diplomatic barnstorming by Mrs. Clinton. In public meetings and private talks, she carried her message about the Revolutionary Guards into the heart of the Middle East, trying to win over ambivalent neighbors like Qatar, and fire up Iran's critics, chiefly Saudi Arabia.
 Mrs. Clinton also said that the United States would protect its allies in the gulf from Iranian aggression, a pledge that echoed the notion of a ''security umbrella'' that she advanced last summer in Asia. She noted that the United States already supplied defensive weapons to several of these countries, and was prepared to bolster its military assistance if needed.
 Mrs. Clinton may have made some headway, given the response of the Saudi foreign minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal. He said Iran risked setting off a nuclear arms race in the region, and expressed worries that the American-led effort to impose new sanctions might not come quickly enough.
 ''Sanctions are a long-term solution,'' he said. ''But we see the issue in the shorter term, maybe because we are closer to the threat. So we need an immediate resolution rather than a gradual resolution.'' 
 Prince Saud also appeared to encourage China, the main holdout to sanctions, to back a Security Council resolution. Saudi Arabia's influence with Beijing is significant, given that it is China's largest supplier of oil and could offset any retaliatory cutoff of shipments from Iran should Beijing support sanctions.
 American officials have prodded Saudi Arabia to reassure China, and while they would not say whether they had been successful, they said they were encouraged by Mrs. Clinton's meeting with the king.
 As Mrs. Clinton made her rounds, Gen. David H. Petraeus, the commander of the Central Command, arrived here for talks about military cooperation with Saudi Arabia. He is to be followed in a few days by the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. Mike Mullen.
 ''We will always defend our friends and allies, and we will certainly defend countries who are in the Gulf who face the greatest immediate nearby threat from Iran,'' Mrs. Clinton said in Doha.
 Qatar is one of four Persian Gulf states -- along with Kuwait, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates -- that have recently acquired additional anti-missile defense systems from the United States, military officials said.
 Pressed by an audience of students, most of them Muslim, at the Doha campus of Carnegie Mellon University, Mrs. Clinton said the United States had no plans to carry out a military strike against Iran.
 Still, as the Obama administration moves from diplomacy to pressure, its policy is edging closer to the hard line toward Iran that Mrs. Clinton advocated as a presidential candidate. At times on this trip, her public comments have sounded a lot like her words on the campaign trail.
 Asked about the so-called security umbrella, a phrase Mrs. Clinton first used during the Democratic primary and which the White House did not embrace after she mentioned it in Thailand last summer, she said she still believed that it was the best way to counter the Iranian threat.
 Iran's neighbors, she said, have three options. ''They can just give in to the threat; or they can seek their own capabilities, including nuclear; or they ally themselves with a country like the United States that is willing to help defend them,'' she said. ''I think the third is by far the preferable option.''
 In singling out the Revolutionary Guards, the administration is also trying to drive a wedge between ordinary Iranians and what it sees as a privileged and corrupt ruling class. 
 ''I think the trend with this greater and greater military lock on leadership decisions should be disturbing to Iranians, as well as to those of us on the outside,'' Mrs. Clinton told reporters as she flew from Qatar to Saudi Arabia.
 Last week, the Treasury Department froze the assets within its jurisdiction of four companies controlled by the Revolutionary Guards, as well as of a commander, Gen. Rostam Qasemi, who oversees the guards' construction and engineering conglomerate, Khatam al-Anbiya.
 White House officials have begun what they say will be a ''systematic'' effort to target holdings of the Revolutionary Guards, which in addition to its nuclear involvement, also has a record of supporting militant Islamist organizations and cracking down on protesters.
 Previous Security Council resolutions have designated a handful of senior figures in the Iranian nuclear program, including the man believed to run much of the military research program for the Revolutionary Guards. But the administration's latest push would name and apply sanctions to an array of companies. 
 The goal would be to increase the cost for those who do business with Iran so much that they would cut off ties.
 But in prodding the clerics and politicians to take action, Mrs. Clinton found herself in the awkward position of celebrating the early days of the Islamic Revolution. Iran today, she said, is ''a far cry from the Islamic republic that had elections and different points of view within the leadership circle.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Saudi foreign minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, spoke Monday in Riyadh. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FAHAD SHADEED/REUTERS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMS RACE (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (93%) INDIAN OCEAN (71%) UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); QATAR (94%); GULF STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



434 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Struggling Over a Rule For Brokers

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
While most of the debate about financial overhaul legislation has focused on the impact on how big banks do business, one piece that would affect consumers directly has received little public notice: a requirement that stock and insurance brokers act in their customers' best interest.
 And that provision may not make it into the final overhaul plan.
 The insurance industry, in particular, has been fighting the requirement. In addition, Senator Tim Johnson, Democrat of South Dakota, is considering whether to recommend a study of the brokerage and adviser industries, a move that consumer advocates say would wipe out the proposed requirement.
 ''The intent of this amendment is not to improve investor protections, but to delay and deflect meaningful reform,'' said Barbara Roper, director for investor protection at the Consumer Federation of America. 
 At issue is whether brokers should be required to put their clients' interest first -- what is known as fiduciary duty. The professionals known as investment advisers already hold to that standard. But brokers at firms like Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, or those who sell variable annuities, are often held to a lesser standard, one that requires them only to steer their clients to investments that are considered ''suitable.'' Those investments may be lucrative for the broker at the clients' expense.
 Over the years, it has become more difficult for consumers to understand where their advisers' loyalties lie, especially as the traditional stock-peddling brokers have started to look and act more like financial advisers. The fact that some brokers can wear two hats with the same client -- that is, provide advice as a fiduciary in one moment, but recommend only ''suitable'' investments in the next -- only adds to the confusion, experts said. 
 So as part of the more sweeping effort to overhaul Wall Street, both houses of Congress included measures that would subject brokers to the tougher standard. On the surface, both the brokerage and financial planning industry appear to agree that advisers of all stripes should be subject to a consistent fiduciary standard. But behind the scenes, the groups are divided on how exactly it should work, while the insurance industry is opposed to a fiduciary standard altogether.
 ''Brokers would love to be called fiduciaries,'' said Tamar Frankel, a professor at Boston University School of Law. ''That is not the issue. The issue is what stands behind it.'' 
 The study being considered by Senator Johnson would examine the gaps and overlaps in regulation within the brokerage and adviser industries. Consumer groups say the issue has already been examined, most recently in 2008, when the Securities and Exchange Commission asked the RAND Corporation, a nonprofit organization, to study the business practices of broker-dealers and investment advisers. The study found that investors had trouble distinguishing among industry professionals.
 A spokesman for Mr. Johnson said a study was on the table, but that it was still early in the process. ''There certainly has been some concern raised on how to appropriately harmonize the fiduciary standard for investment advisers and broker-dealer to eliminate consumer confusion,'' Jeff Gohringer, the spokesman, said. ''And Senator Johnson is looking for ways to address it.''
 The debate over brokers' responsibility to their clients and how much they have to disclose has been evolving since the Depression, as Congress and the courts have weighed in. 
 The first efforts to regulate financial professionals came in 1934 and 1940, with first the Securities Exchange Act and then the Investment Advisers Act, which set out rules for brokers and advisers. The advisers were held to the stricter fiduciary standard. But the 1940 law made an exception for brokers: as long as their advice was ''solely incidental'' to their service as a broker, and they did not receive special compensation for advice, they were not required to act as fiduciaries. Instead, they must provide only ''suitable'' investments.
 ''Consumers are generally not aware that there are these different standards,'' said Daniel J. Barry, director of government relations for the Financial Planning Association, an advocacy group for the advisers' industry.
 The planners, along with consumer advocates, support the proposal in the original draft of the Senate financial reform bill by Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. That proposal would simply erase the brokers' exemption from the Investment Advisers Act and require them to register as advisers, making them fiduciaries.
 ''The Dodd bill is broader and stronger,'' said John C. Coffee, a professor of securities law at Columbia Law School. ''In the full-scale House bill, you see how limited it is. The House makes a new limited fiduciary standard to broker dealers, but only when they are giving personalized investment advice'' about securities to a retail customer.
 Consumer advocates say the phrase ''personalized investment advice'' leaves too much room for interpretation. What is more worrisome, they say, is that the House version would also not require brokers to ''have a continuing duty of care or loyalty to the customer'' after providing that advice. That could lead to ''hat switching,'' they say, where the broker wears his fiduciary hat when giving advice, but changes to the suitability hat when recommending products. 
 The hat switching ''is a real problem, and it is particularly a real problem because the S.E.C. has accepted that position in the past and appears likely to do so in the future,'' said Mercer Bullard, an associate professor at the University of Mississippi School of Law who serves on the S.E.C. and Exchange Commission's Investment Advisory Committee. ''If someone has presented a full range of financial planning options, it is absurd to think the client will not expect that relationship of trust and confidence to continue.''
 Mary L. Schapiro, the chairwoman of the S.E.C., has said she supports a fiduciary standard that is at least as strong as the one that investment advisers follow. For its part, the brokerage industry has said it is not advocating a weaker rule.
 ''We certainly don't want a watered-down standard,'' said Kevin Carroll, managing director and associate general counsel at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, a trade organization. He said the association preferred the House version. 
 The insurance industry, however, is opposed to any additional regulation. In a letter in November to the Senate Banking Committee, three trade groups representing the insurance industry said some of their agents must already pass one or more regulatory exams and are subject to the rules and exams conducted by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the regulatory organization known as Finra.
 Mr. Bullard said the insurance industry was ''apoplectic because if they sell a variable annuity and they are subject to fiduciary duty, that means they will probably have to fully disclose the compensation they are getting.'' This, he added, ''would make clear the excessive incentives they have to mis-sell the variable annuity, which has been the cause of regulatory problems in that area.'' 
 Richard G. Ketchum, the chief executive of Finra, said there had long been problems with how brokers disclosed their conflicts and how they pushed products ''and whether they push products because they have an employee incentive or if it's a proprietary product.''
 The House bill makes sense, he added, in that it outlines a fiduciary standard and then leaves it to the S.E.C. to define it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Tim Johnson, left, and Christopher Dodd. Mr. Johnson is considering a study of the brokerage and advising industries.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES)(B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ANNUITIES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); RAND CORP (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: TIM JOHNSON (89%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



435 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: What's Wrong With Us?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

DATELINE: Harrisburg, Pa. 

 BODY:
 Gov. Ed Rendell likes to tell a story that goes back to his days as mayor of Philadelphia. 
 As he recalled, the city had a long cold snap with about a month and a half of below-freezing temperatures. Then, abruptly, the mercury rose into the 60s, he said, ''and 58 of our water mains broke, causing all sorts of havoc.''
 The pipes were old. Some were ancient. ''My water people told me that some had been laid in the 19th century,'' said Mr. Rendell, ''and they were laid shallow, without much protection. So with any radical changes in temperature, they were susceptible to breaking. We had a real emergency on our hands.'' 
 Infrastructure, that least sexy of issues, is not just a significant interest of Ed Rendell's; it's more like a consuming passion. He can talk about it energetically and enthusiastically for hours and days at a time. He has tried to stop the hemorrhaging of Pennsylvania's infrastructure, and he travels the country explaining how crucially important it is for the United States to rebuild a national infrastructure landscape that has deteriorated so badly that it is threatening the nation's economic viability.
 Two years ago, a bridge inspector who had stopped for lunch in Philadelphia's Port Richmond neighborhood happened to glance up at a viaduct that carries Interstate 95 over the neighborhood. He noticed a 6-foot crack in a 15-foot column that was supporting the highway. His sandwich was quickly forgotten. Two miles of the highway had to be closed for three days for emergency repairs to prevent a catastrophe from occurring. 
 These kinds of problems are not peculiar to Pennsylvania. New Orleans was lost for want of an adequate system of levees and floodwalls. Lawrence Summers, President Obama's chief economic adviser, tells us that 75 percent of America's public schools have structural deficiencies. The nation's ports, inland waterways, drinking water and wastewater systems -- you name it -- are hurting to one degree or another. 
 Ignoring these problems imperils public safety, diminishes our economic competitiveness, is penny-wise and pound-foolish, and results in tremendous missed opportunities to create new jobs on a vast scale.
 Competitors are leaving us behind when it comes to infrastructure investment. China is building a network of 42 high-speed rail lines, while the U.S. has yet to build its first. Other nations are well ahead of us in the deployment of broadband service and green energy technology. We spend scandalous amounts of time sitting in traffic jams or enduring the endless horrors of airline travel. Low-cost, high-speed Internet access is a science-fiction fantasy in many parts of the United States.
 What's wrong with us? 
 We're so far behind in some areas that Governor Rendell has said that getting our infrastructure act together can feel like ''sledding uphill.''
 ''When I took over as governor,'' he said, ''I was told that Pennsylvania led the nation in the number of structurally deficient or functionally obsolete bridges. We had more than 5,600 of them. So I put a ton of money into bridge repair. We more than tripled the amount in the capital budget, from $200 million a year to $700 million a year. And I got a special appropriation from the Legislature to do $200 million a year extra for the next four years.''
 The result? ''Well, the good news is that we repaired a lot of bridges,'' said Mr. Rendell. ''The bad news is that by the end of my sixth year, the end of 2008, the number of deficient or structurally obsolete bridges had gone from 5,600 to more than 6,000.
 ''The reason is that we lead the nation in bridges 75 years or older, and the recommended lifespan for a bridge is 40 years. So every time we fixed two, three would bump onto the list.''
 He said he hopes that by the end of this year the list will be pared to 4,300 bridges, which he described as ''still way too high.''
 It's easy, especially in tough economic times, to push aside infrastructure initiatives, including basic maintenance and repair, in favor of issues that seem more pressing or more appealing. But this misses the point that infrastructure spending that is thoughtful and wise is an investment, a crucial investment in the nation's future -- and it's a world-class source of high-value jobs. 
 The great danger right now is that we will do exactly the wrong thing, that we'll turn away from our screaming infrastructure needs and let the deterioration continue. With infrastructure costs so high (the needs are enormous and enormously expensive) and with the eyes in Washington increasingly focused on deficit reduction, the absolutely essential modernizing of the American infrastructure may not take place. That would be worse than foolish. It would be tragic. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); WATER MAIN BREAKS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); WEATHER (72%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); JOB CREATION (65%); BROADBAND (63%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (62%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (50%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (90%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



436 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4665 words

HEADLINE: Lighting a Fuse for Rebellion on the Right

BYLINE: By DAVID BARSTOW

DATELINE: SANDPOINT, Idaho 

 BODY:
Pam Stout has not always lived in fear of her government. She remembers her years working in federal housing programs, watching government lift struggling families with job training and education. She beams at the memory of helping a Vietnamese woman get into junior college. 
 But all that was before the Great Recession and the bank bailouts, before Barack Obama took the White House by promising sweeping change on multiple fronts, before her son lost his job and his house. Mrs. Stout said she awoke to see Washington as a threat, a place where crisis is manipulated -- even manufactured -- by both parties to grab power. 
 She was happily retired, and had never been active politically. But last April, she went to her first Tea Party rally, then to a meeting of the Sandpoint Tea Party Patriots. She did not know a soul, yet when they began electing board members, she stood up, swallowed hard, and nominated herself for president. ''I was like, 'Did I really just do that?' '' she recalled.
 Then she went even further. 
 Worried about hyperinflation, social unrest or even martial law, she and her Tea Party members joined a coalition, Friends for Liberty, that includes representatives from Glenn Beck's 9/12 Project, the John Birch Society, and Oath Keepers, a new player in a resurgent militia movement. 
 When Friends for Liberty held its first public event, Mrs. Stout listened as Richard Mack, a former Arizona sheriff, brought 1,400 people to their feet with a speech about confronting a despotic federal government. Mrs. Stout said she felt as if she had been handed a road map to rebellion. Members of her family, she said, think she has disappeared down a rabbit hole of conspiracy theories. But Mrs. Stout said she has never felt so engaged. 
 ''I can't go on being the shy, quiet me,'' she said. ''I need to stand up.''
 The Tea Party movement has become a platform for conservative populist discontent, a force in Republican politics for revival, as it was in the Massachusetts Senate election, or for division. But it is also about the profound private transformation of people like Mrs. Stout, people who not long ago were not especially interested in politics, yet now say they are bracing for tyranny. 
 These people are part of a significant undercurrent within the Tea Party movement that has less in common with the Republican Party than with the Patriot movement, a brand of politics historically associated with libertarians, militia groups, anti-immigration advocates and those who argue for the abolition of the Federal Reserve.
 Urged on by conservative commentators, waves of newly minted activists are turning to once-obscure books and Web sites and discovering a set of ideas long dismissed as the preserve of conspiracy theorists, interviews conducted across the country over several months show. In this view, Mr. Obama and many of his predecessors (including George W. Bush) have deliberately undermined the Constitution and free enterprise for the benefit of a shadowy international network of wealthy elites.
 Loose alliances like Friends for Liberty are popping up in many cities, forming hybrid entities of Tea Parties and groups rooted in the Patriot ethos. These coalitions are not content with simply making the Republican Party more conservative. They have a larger goal -- a political reordering that would drastically shrink the federal government and sweep away not just Mr. Obama, but much of the Republican establishment, starting with Senator John McCain.
 In many regions, including here in the inland Northwest, tense struggles have erupted over whether the Republican apparatus will co-opt these new coalitions or vice versa. Tea Party supporters are already singling out Republican candidates who they claim have ''aided and abetted'' what they call the slide to tyranny: Mark Steven Kirk, a candidate for the Senate from Illinois, for supporting global warming legislation; Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida, who is seeking a Senate seat, for supporting stimulus spending; and Meg Whitman, a candidate for governor in California, for saying she was a ''big fan'' of Van Jones, once Mr. Obama's ''green jobs czar.'' 
 During a recent meeting with Congressional Republicans, Mr. Obama acknowledged the potency of these attacks when he complained that depicting him as a would-be despot was complicating efforts to find bipartisan solutions.
 ''The fact of the matter is that many of you, if you voted with the administration on something, are politically vulnerable in your own base, in your own party,'' Mr. Obama said. ''You've given yourselves very little room to work in a bipartisan fashion because what you've been telling your constituents is, 'This guy's doing all kinds of crazy stuff that is going to destroy America.' '' 
 The ebbs and flows of the Tea Party ferment are hardly uniform. It is an amorphous, factionalized uprising with no clear leadership and no centralized structure. Not everyone flocking to the Tea Party movement is worried about dictatorship. Some have a basic aversion to big government, or Mr. Obama, or progressives in general. What's more, some Tea Party groups are essentially appendages of the local Republican Party.
 But most are not. They are frequently led by political neophytes who prize independence and tell strikingly similar stories of having been awakened by the recession. Their families upended by lost jobs, foreclosed homes and depleted retirement funds, they said they wanted to know why it happened and whom to blame.
 That is often the point when Tea Party supporters say they began listening to Glenn Beck. With his guidance, they explored the Federalist Papers, exposes on the Federal Reserve, the work of Ayn Rand and George Orwell. Some went to constitutional seminars. Online, they discovered radical critiques of Washington on Web sites like ResistNet.com (''Home of the Patriotic Resistance'') and Infowars.com (''Because there is a war on for your mind.''). 
 Many describe emerging from their research as if reborn to a new reality. Some have gone so far as to stock up on ammunition, gold and survival food in anticipation of the worst. For others, though, transformation seems to amount to trying on a new ideological outfit -- embracing the rhetoric and buying the books.
 Tea Party leaders say they know their complaints about shredded constitutional principles and excessive spending ring hollow to some, given their relative passivity through the Bush years. In some ways, though, their main answer -- strict adherence to the Constitution -- would comfort every card-carrying A.C.L.U. member.
 But their vision of the federal government is frequently at odds with the one that both parties have constructed. Tea Party gatherings are full of people who say they would do away with the Federal Reserve, the federal income tax and countless agencies, not to mention bailouts and stimulus packages. Nor is it unusual to hear calls to eliminate Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. A remarkable number say this despite having recently lost jobs or health coverage. Some of the prescriptions they are debating -- secession, tax boycotts, states ''nullifying'' federal laws, forming citizen militias -- are outside the mainstream, too. 
 At a recent meeting of the Sandpoint Tea Party, Mrs. Stout presided with brisk efficiency until a member interrupted with urgent news. Because of the stimulus bill, he insisted, private medical records were being shipped to federal bureaucrats. A woman said her doctor had told her the same thing. There were gasps of rage. Everyone already viewed health reform as a ruse to control their medical choices and drive them into the grip of insurance conglomerates. Debate erupted. Could state medical authorities intervene? Should they call Congress? 
 As the meeting ended, Carolyn L. Whaley, 76, held up her copy of the Constitution. She carries it everywhere, she explained, and she was prepared to lay down her life to protect it from the likes of Mr. Obama. 
 ''I would not hesitate,'' she said, perfectly calm.
 A Sprawling Rebellion
 The Tea Party movement defies easy definition, largely because there is no single Tea Party.
 At the grass-roots level, it consists of hundreds of autonomous Tea Party groups, widely varying in size and priorities, each influenced by the peculiarities of local history. 
 In the inland Northwest, the Tea Party movement has been shaped by the growing popularity in eastern Washington of Ron Paul, the libertarian congressman from Texas, and by a legacy of anti-government activism in northern Idaho. Outside Sandpoint, federal agents laid siege to Randy Weaver's compound on Ruby Ridge in 1992, resulting in the deaths of a marshal and Mr. Weaver's wife and son. To the south, Richard Butler, leader of the Aryan Nations, preached white separatism from a compound near Coeur d'Alene until he was shut down.
 Local Tea Party groups are often loosely affiliated with one of several competing national Tea Party organizations. In the background, offering advice and organizational muscle, are an array of conservative lobbying groups, most notably FreedomWorks. Further complicating matters, Tea Party events have become a magnet for other groups and causes -- including gun rights activists, anti-tax crusaders, libertarians, militia organizers, the ''birthers'' who doubt President Obama's citizenship, Lyndon LaRouche supporters and proponents of the sovereign states movement.
 It is a sprawling rebellion, but running through it is a narrative of impending tyranny. This narrative permeates Tea Party Web sites, Facebook pages, Twitter feeds and YouTube videos. It is a prominent theme of their favored media outlets and commentators, and it connects the disparate issues that preoccupy many Tea Party supporters -- from the concern that the community organization Acorn is stealing elections to the belief that Mr. Obama is trying to control the Internet and restrict gun ownership. 
 WorldNetDaily.com trumpets ''exclusives'' reporting that the Army is seeking ''Internment/Resettlement'' specialists. On ResistNet.com, bloggers warn that Mr. Obama is trying to convert Interpol, the international police organization, into his personal police force. They call on ''fellow Patriots'' to ''grab their guns.'' 
 Mr. Beck frequently echoes Patriot rhetoric, discussing the possible arrival of a ''New World Order'' and arguing that Mr. Obama is using a strategy of manufactured crisis to destroy the economy and pave the way for dictatorship.
 At recent Tea Party events around the country, these concerns surfaced repeatedly.
 In New Mexico, Mary Johnson, recording secretary of the Las Cruces Tea Party steering committee, described why she fears the government. She pointed out how much easier it is since Sept. 11 for the government to tap telephones and scour e-mail, bank accounts and library records. ''Twenty years ago that would have been a paranoid statement,'' Ms. Johnson said. ''It's not anymore.''
 In Texas, Toby Marie Walker, president of the Waco Tea Party, stood on a stage before several thousand people, ticking off the institutions she no longer trusts -- the federal government, both the major political parties, Wall Street. ''Many of us don't believe they have our best interests at heart,'' Ms. Walker said. She choked back tears, but the crowd urged her on with shouts of ''Go, Toby!'' 
 As it happened in the inland Northwest with Friends for Liberty, the fear of Washington and the disgust for both parties is producing new coalitions of Tea Party supporters and groups affiliated with the Patriot movement. In Indiana, for example, a group called the Defenders of Liberty is helping organize ''meet-ups'' with Tea Party groups and more than 50 Patriot organizations. The Ohio Freedom Alliance, meanwhile, is bringing together Tea Party supporters, Ohio sovereignty advocates and members of the Constitution and Libertarian Parties. The alliance is also helping to organize five ''liberty conferences'' in March, each featuring Richard Mack, the same speaker invited to address Friends for Liberty. 
 Politicians courting the Tea Party movement are also alluding to Patriot dogma. At a Tea Party protest in Las Vegas, Joe Heck, a Republican running for Congress, blamed both the Democratic and Republican Parties for moving the country toward ''socialistic tyranny.'' In Texas, Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican seeking re-election, threw his support behind the state sovereignty movement. And in Indiana, Richard Behney, a Republican Senate candidate, told Tea Party supporters what he would do if the 2010 elections did not produce results to his liking: ''I'm cleaning my guns and getting ready for the big show. And I'm serious about that, and I bet you are, too.''
 Turning Points
 Fear of co-option -- a perpetual topic in the Tea Party movement -- lay behind the formation of Friends for Liberty.
 The new grass-roots leaders of the inland Northwest had grown weary of fending off what they jokingly called ''hijack attempts'' by the state and county Republican Parties. Whether the issue was picking speakers or scheduling events, they suspected party leaders of trying to choke off their revolution with Chamber of Commerce incrementalism.
 ''We had to stand our ground, I'll be blunt,'' said Dann Selle, president of the Official Tea Party of Spokane.
 In October, Mr. Selle, Mrs. Stout and about 20 others from across the region met in Liberty Lake, Wash., a small town on the Idaho border, to discuss how to achieve broad political change without sacrificing independence. The local Republican Party was excluded.
 Most of the people there had paid only passing attention to national politics in years past. ''I voted twice and I failed political science twice,'' said Darin Stevens, leader of the Spokane 9/12 Project.
 Until the recession, Mr. Stevens, 33, had poured his energies into his family and his business installing wireless networks. He had to lay off employees, and he struggled to pay credit cards, a home equity loan, even his taxes. ''It hits you physically when you start getting the calls,'' he said.
 He discovered Glenn Beck, and began to think of Washington as a conspiracy to fleece the little guy. ''I had no clue that my country was being taken from me,'' Mr. Stevens explained. He could not understand why his progressive friends did not see what he saw.
 He felt compelled to do something, so he decided to start a chapter of Mr. Beck's 9/12 Project. He reserved a room at a pizza parlor for a Glenn Beck viewing party and posted the event on Craigslist. ''We had 110 people there,'' Mr. Stevens said. He recalled looking around the room and thinking, ''All these people -- they agree with me.''
 Leah Southwell's turning point came when she stumbled on Mr. Paul's speeches on YouTube. (''He blew me away.'') Until recently, Mrs. Southwell was in the top 1 percent of all Mary Kay sales representatives, with a company car and a frenetic corporate life. ''I knew zero about the Constitution,'' Mrs. Southwell confessed. Today, when asked about her commitment to the uprising, she recites a line from the Declaration of Independence, a Tea Party favorite: ''We mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor.''
 Mr. Paul led Mrs. Southwell to Patriot ideology, which holds that governments and economies are controlled by networks of elites who wield power through exclusive entities like the Bilderberg Group, the Trilateral Commission and the Council on Foreign Relations.
 This idea has a long history, with variations found at both ends of the political spectrum. But to Mrs. Southwell, the government's culpability for the recession -- the serial failures of regulation, the Federal Reserve's epic blunders, the cozy bailouts for big banks -- made it resonate all the more, especially as she witnessed the impact on family and friends.
 ''The more you know, the madder you are,'' she said. ''I mean when you finally learn what the Federal Reserve is!''
 Last spring, Mrs. Southwell quit her job and became a national development officer for the John Birch Society, recruiting and raising money across the West, often at Tea Party events. She has been stunned by the number of Tea Party supporters gravitating toward Patriot ideology. ''Most of these people are just waking up,'' she said.
 Converging Paths
 At Liberty Lake, the participants settled on a ''big tent'' strategy, with each group supporting the others in the coalition they called Friends for Liberty. 
 One local group represented at Liberty Lake was Arm in Arm, which aims to organize neighborhoods for possible civil strife by stockpiling food and survival gear, and forming armed neighborhood groups. 
 Also represented was Oath Keepers, whose members call themselves ''guardians of the Republic.'' Oath Keepers recruits military and law enforcement officials who are asked to disobey orders the group deems unconstitutional. These include orders to conduct warrantless searches, arrest Americans as unlawful enemy combatants or force civilians into ''any form of detention camps.''
 Oath Keepers, which has been recruiting at Tea Party events around the country and forging informal ties with militia groups, has an enthusiastic following in Friends for Liberty. ''A lot of my people are Oath Keepers,'' Mr. Stevens said. ''I'm an honorary Oath Keeper myself.''
 Mrs. Stout became an honorary Oath Keeper, too, and sent an e-mail message urging her members to sign up. ''They may be very important for our future,'' she wrote.
 By inviting Richard Mack to speak at their first event, leaders of Friends for Liberty were trying to attract militia support. They knew Mr. Mack had many militia fans, and not simply because he had helped Randy Weaver write a book about Ruby Ridge. As a sheriff in Arizona, Mr. Mack had sued the Clinton administration over the Brady gun control law, which resulted in a Supreme Court ruling that the law violated state sovereignty by requiring local officials to conduct background checks on gun buyers.
 Mr. Mack was selling Cadillacs in Arizona, his political career seemingly over, when Mr. Obama was elected. Disheartened by the results, he wrote a 50-page booklet branding the federal government ''the greatest threat we face.'' The booklet argued that only local sheriffs supported by citizen militias could save the nation from ''utter despotism.'' He titled his booklet ''The County Sheriff: America's Last Hope,'' offered it for sale on his Web site and returned to selling cars.
 But last February he was invited to appear on ''Infowars,'' the Internet radio program hosted by Alex Jones, a well-known figure in the Patriot movement. Then Mr. Mack went on ''The Power Hour,'' another Internet radio program popular in the Patriot movement. 
 After those appearances, Mr. Mack said, he was inundated with invitations to speak to Tea Parties and Patriot groups. Demand was so great, he said, that he quit selling cars. Then Andrew P. Napolitano, a Fox News legal analyst, invited him to New York to appear on his podcast.
 ''It's taken over my life,'' Mr. Mack said in an interview.
 He said he has found audiences everywhere struggling to make sense of why they were wiped out last year. These audiences, he said, are far more receptive to critiques once dismissed as paranoia. It is no longer considered all that radical, he said, to portray the Federal Reserve as a plaything of the big banks -- a point the Birch Society, among others, has argued for decades.
 People are more willing, he said, to imagine a government that would lock up political opponents, or ration health care with ''death panels,'' or fake global warming. And if global warming is a fraud, is it so crazy to wonder about a president's birth certificate?
 ''People just do not trust any of this,'' Mr. Mack said. ''It's not just the fringe people anymore. These are just ordinary people -- teachers, bankers, housewives.''
 The dog track opened at 5:45 p.m. for Mr. Mack's speech, and the parking lot quickly filled. Inside, each Friends for Liberty sponsor had its own recruiting table. Several sheriffs and state legislators worked the crowd. ''I came out to talk with folks and listen to Sheriff Mack,'' Ozzie Knezovich, the sheriff of Spokane County, Wash., explained. 
 Gazing out at his overwhelmingly white audience, Mr. Mack felt the need to say, ''This meeting is not racist.'' Nor, he said, was it a call to insurrection. What is needed, he said, is ''a whole army of sheriffs'' marching on Washington to deliver an unambiguous warning: ''Any violation of the Constitution we will consider a criminal offense.'' 
 The crowd roared.
 Mr. Mack shared his vision of the ideal sheriff. The setting was Montgomery, Ala., on the day Rosa Parks refused to give up her bus seat for a white passenger. Imagine the local sheriff, he said, rather than arresting Ms. Parks, escorting her home, stopping to buy her a meal at an all-white diner.
 ''Edmund Burke said the essence of tyranny is the enforcement of stupid laws,'' he said. Likewise, Mr. Mack argued, sheriffs should have ignored ''stupid laws'' and protected the Branch Davidians at Waco, Tex., and the Weaver family at Ruby Ridge.
 Legacy
 A popular T-shirt at Tea Party rallies reads, ''Proud Right-Wing Extremist.''
 It is a defiant and mocking rejoinder to last April's intelligence assessment from the Department of Homeland Security warning that recession and the election of the nation's first black president ''present unique drivers for right wing radicalization.''
 ''Historically,'' the assessment said, ''domestic right wing extremists have feared, predicted and anticipated a cataclysmic economic collapse in the United States.'' Those predictions, it noted, are typically rooted in ''antigovernment conspiracy theories'' featuring impending martial law. The assessment said extremist groups were already preparing for this scenario by stockpiling weapons and food and by resuming paramilitary exercises.
 The report does not mention the Tea Party movement, but among Tea Party activists it is viewed with open scorn, evidence of a larger campaign by liberals to marginalize them as ''racist wingnuts.'' 
 But Tony Stewart, a leading civil rights activist in the inland Northwest, took careful note of the report. Almost 30 years ago, Mr. Stewart cofounded the Kootenai County Task Force on Human Relations in Coeur d'Alene. The task force has campaigned relentlessly to rid north Idaho of its reputation as a haven for anti-government extremists. The task force tactics brought many successes, including a $6.3 million civil judgment that effectively bankrupted Richard Butler's Aryan Nations. 
 When the Tea Party uprising gathered force last spring, Mr. Stewart saw painfully familiar cultural and rhetorical overtones. Mr. Stewart viewed the questions about Mr. Obama's birthplace as a proxy for racism, and he was bothered by the ''common message of intolerance for the opposition.''
 ''It's either you're with us or you're the enemy,'' he said.
 Mr. Stewart heard similar concerns from other civil rights activists around the country. They could not help but wonder why the explosion of conservative anger coincided with a series of violent acts by right wing extremists. In the Inland Northwest there had been a puzzling return of racist rhetoric and violence.
 Mr. Stewart said it would be unfair to attribute any of these incidents to the Tea Party movement. ''We don't have any evidence they are connected,'' he said. 
 Still, he sees troubling parallels. Branding Mr. Obama a tyrant, Mr. Stewart said, constructs a logic that could be used to rationalize violence. ''When people start wearing guns to rallies, what's the next thing that happens?'' Mr. Stewart asked. 
 Rachel Dolezal, curator of the Human Rights Education Institute in Coeur d'Alene, has also watched the Tea Party movement with trepidation. Though raised in a conservative family, Ms. Dolezal, who is multiracial, said she could not imagine showing her face at a Tea Party event. To her, what stands out are the all-white crowds, the crude depictions of Mr. Obama as an African witch doctor and the signs labeling him a terrorist. ''It would make me nervous to be there unless I went with a big group,'' she said. 
 The Future
 Pam Stout wakes each morning, turns on Fox News, grabs coffee and an Atkins bar, and hits the computer. She is the hub of a rapidly expanding and highly viral political network, keeping a running correspondence with her 400 members in Sandpoint, state and national Tea Party leaders and other conservative activists. 
 Mrs. Stout forwards along petitions to impeach Mr. Obama; petitions to audit the Federal Reserve; petitions to support Sarah Palin; appeals urging defiance of any federal law requiring health insurance; and on and on. 
 Meanwhile, she and her husband are studying the Constitution line by line. She has the Congressional switchboard programmed into her cellphone. ''I just signed up for a Twitter class,'' said Mrs. Stout, 66, laughing at the improbability of it all.
 Yet for all her efforts, Mrs. Stout is gripped by a sense that it may be too little too late. Yes, there have been victories -- including polls showing support for the Tea Party movement -- but in her view none of it has diminished the fundamental threat of tyranny, a point underscored by Mr. Obama's drive to pass a health care overhaul.
 She and her members are becoming convinced that rallies alone will not save the Republic. They are searching for some larger answer, she said. They are also waiting for a leader, someone capable of uniting their rebellion, someone like Ms. Palin, who made Sandpoint one of the final stops on her book tour and who has announced plans to attend a series of high-profile Tea Party events in the next few months.
 ''We need to really decide where we're going to go,'' Mrs. Stout said.
 These questions of strategy, direction and leadership were clearly on the minds of Mrs. Stout's members at a recent monthly meeting.
 Their task seemed endless, almost overwhelming, especially with only $517 in their Tea Party bank account. There were rallies against illegal immigration to attend. There was a coming lecture about the hoax of global warming. There were shooting classes to schedule, and tips to share about the right survival food.
 The group struggled fitfully for direction. Maybe they should start vetting candidates. Someone mentioned boycotting ABC, CBS, NBC and MSNBC. Maybe they should do more recruiting.
 ''How do you keep on fighting?'' Mrs. Stout asked in exasperation. 
 Lenore Generaux, a local wildlife artist, had an idea: They should raise money for Freedom Force, a group that says it wants to ''reclaim America via the Patriot movement.'' The group is trying to unite the Tea Parties and other groups to form a powerful ''Patriot lobby.'' One goal is to build a ''Patriot war chest'' big enough to take control of the Republican Party.
 Not long ago, Mrs. Stout sent an e-mail message to her members under the subject line: ''Revolution.'' It linked to an article by Greg Evensen, a leader in the militia movement, titled ''The Anatomy of an American Revolution,'' that listed ''grievances'' he said ''would justify a declaration of war against any criminal enterprise including that which is killing our nation from Washington, D.C.''
 Mrs. Stout said she has begun to contemplate the possibility of ''another civil war.'' It is her deepest fear, she said. Yet she believes the stakes are that high. Basic freedoms are threatened, she said. Economic collapse, food shortages and civil unrest all seem imminent. 
 ''I don't see us being the ones to start it, but I would give up my life for my country,'' Mrs. Stout said.
 She paused, considering her next words. 
 ''Peaceful means,'' she continued, ''are the best way of going about it. But sometimes you are not given a choice.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Less than a year ago, Pam Stout was new to protest politics. Now she runs a Tea Party group in Sandpoint, Idaho. (A1)
POST FALLS, IDAHO: Richard Mack, a former Arizona sheriff, draws large crowds to rallies where he calls the federal government ''the greatest threat we face.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAJAH BOSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DANN SELLE: A Tea Party leader who confronted the Republican Party
DARIN STEVENS: A follower of Glenn Beck from Washington State (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)
WACO, TEX.: Veterans pausing in prayer at a Tea Party rally in September (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
RACHEL DOLEZAL: An official of a human rights organization in Idaho (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAJAH BOSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 SPOKANE, WASH.: Lining up to attend a Tea Party gathering in October (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); POLITICS (88%); BAILOUTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); BOARD CHANGES (69%); SHERIFFS (68%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (66%); BANK FAILURES (57%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN BIRCH SOCIETY (55%)

PERSON: GLENN BECK (71%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (79%) IDAHO, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010



437 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2010

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1974 words

HEADLINE: Western Union: Debating Benefits and Challenges of EU Membership

BYLINE: DINAH MACK and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson Plan | Considering the economic crisis in Europe, researching the EU and discussing the pros and cons of EU membership. 

 BODY:
Overview | How do countries join the European Union, and what are the benefits and challenges of EU membership? With a shared currency, the euro, how does the economy in one EU country impact those of other EU nations? In this lesson, students research the European Union and the criterion and ramifications of membership and hold a conference to debate the admittance of other potential EU countries. 
Materials | Computers with Internet connection, video projection equipment, drawing paper, art supplies, atlases, blank Europe maps, research resources
Warm-up | Put students in pairs or small groups and give each group our blank outline map of Europe (PDF). Write a list of the current 27 European Union member countries on the board, and challenge students to locate the countries on their blank map, labeling the country name in the appropriate place. You might even turn this into a competition for speed and accuracy. 
Alternatively or additionally, you might have students take an interactive online Europe geography quiz.
Fill in a class-wide map together. Then ask: What do you know about the European Union? Have you heard or read anything about it in the news recently? If necessary, provide basic information and background about the EU and the euro.
For example, you might tell students about the EU's founding in 1950 and how it has expanded to reach 27 member countries. The timeline on the Times Topics page on the European Union is a good resource for background. 
Next, show the brief video "Financial Crisis Deepens in Greece," in which Times international business editor Marcus Mabry explains what the current economic issues are in the European Union with respect to Greece: 
When the video is over, invite students to ask clarifying questions regarding confusing or unfamiliar terms or content in the video. Then ask students to consider the impact of one country in the European Union having a financial crisis. How would that country's crisis impact other countries in the EU? Is it the same as if a state in the United States has a fiscal crisis? 
Related | In her Week in Review article "Contemplating the Future of the European Union," Liz Alderman explores how the wild spending of one EU nation, Greece, is having an impact on the stability of the EU economy:
In 1870, the French novelist Victor Hugo had a vision. Planting an oak tree in his yard, he predicted that by the time it matured, a "United States of Europe" would have sprung up, strengthened by a common currency that would one day make the Continent a force to be reckoned with.
One hundred and forty years later, the dream, like Hugo's tree, is alive - if a little twisted.
Around Europe, 27 nations now fly the flag of the European Union next to their own. 
Sixteen have ditched the drachmas, marks and other bills that symbolized their sovereignty to embrace a single currency, the euro, lending new power to their economic and trade bloc.
All that is now being called into question, however, as European leaders struggle to prevent ruinous spending by Greece from spiraling into a wider crisis or even breaking up the euro union. How they handle this problem could either propel Europe to greater economic and political clout in the decades ahead, or downgrade it to a sideshow in a global economic theater directed by China and the United States.
 Read the entire article with your class, using the following questions.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:

        
How many countries are member nations of the EU? Of the member nations, how many have dropped their currency and taken the Euro?
        
How might overspending by Greece affect the economies of other EU countries and/or threaten to break up the EU?
        
How is the current situation a repeat of what happened in 2003?
        
What does Thomas Mayer, chief economist at Deutsche Bank, feel will happen when the "dust settles"?
        
How does the current situation in Greece impact the desires of small Baltic nations to join the EU?
Activity | Explain to students that they will work in groups to research the European Union and the euro, and then hold a European Union Admittance Conference. Each group will focus on a specific country's role in the EU as well as the positives and negatives of EU membership for that country and across Europe. Make sure that students have their completed EU maps to refer to as they work.
(For a more limited activity, students might debate the quotation from Simon Tilford, chief economist at the Center for European Reform in London, in the article: "The crisis should lead to political unity, but it could just as easily lead to a divided Europe." One side would argue for greater political and economic unity in the EU, the other for increased political division and separation, to address the financial crisis.)
Ask students to consider why countries might want to become members of the EU, and why some might not. Tell them that today, three countries await acceptance into the EU, and that 20 other European countries remain outside the EU. 
Hold a brief discussion before breaking into groups for research. Ask: Why do you think Croatia, Macedonia and Turkey are seeking admittance to the EU? What might be the benefits of membership? Why might some European nations be content, at least for the time being, not to belong to the EU? What do you think are the criteria for admittance? Who decides which countries can join? Do countries have to move to the euro, or can they keep their own currency? What are the benefits and drawbacks of using the euro versus maintaining a national currency? 
Tell students that their research will prepare them to debate these questions during the classroom EU Admittance Conference.
Tell students that they will be researching the EU from the perspective of a member nation or a nation seeking membership. In addition to the resources listed above, these New York Times resources can be starting points for research: the overviews and links on the Times Topics European Union and Euro pages; the interactive feature "Fracturing on Economic Lines"; and recent articles, including the Op-Ed column "The Making of a Euromess" by Paul Krugman and the article "Growing Economic Crisis Threatens Idea of One Europe."
Depending on class size, assign individuals, pairs or small groups to represent some or all of the member countries, and have each group research use the following questions to guide their research:

        
What is the history of the EU? What are its goals?
        
How is a country admitted to the EU? What are the criteria for admittance?
        
When was your country admitted in to the EU?
        
What are the commonalities between your country and some other EU countries (religion, language, location, etc.)?
        
What is the role and purpose of the euro?
        
Does your country use the euro now, or did it keep its original currency? If so, what was your currency before using the euro?
        
Create a hand-drawn and -colored EU flag. What does it represent?
        
Create a hand-drawn and colored flag of your country. What does it represent?
Each group should also develop at least four questions, based on admittance criteria, which they will ask the representatives of other countries trying to be admitted, as well as create a detailed plan of who will say what at the conference.
In addition, assign three students or groups to the countries seeking admittance. These groups should use these guiding questions:

        
Describe the relative location of your country. What is it near? Do countries that belong to the EU border it?
        
What are the main languages spoken, the major religions, the cultural attributes, etc. of your country?
        
What natural resources and goods are produced and exported?
        
What is the currency? What is its value as compared to the euro?
        
How will the country contribute to the EU? What will it offer with its membership?
        
What is the history, and what are the goals, of the EU?
        
How is a country admitted to the EU? What are the criteria for admittance?
        
What are the commonalities among EU countries (religion, language, location, etc.)?
        
What is the role and purpose of the euro?
        
Create a hand-drawn and -colored flag of the country. What does it represent?
Each of these groups should also develop at least four questions, based on their knowledge of the EU, which they will ask the representatives of member countries, as well as create a detailed plan of who will say what at the conference.
When students have finished their research, have groups sit around a circle and hang their flags to identify which countries they represent. As the facilitator, your role is to guide students to dig into the positives and negatives of EU membership and to explore the ways in which the EU attempts to strengthen the economies of member nations. 
Call on countries to explain how membership in the EU has helped their country grow. Call on non-member countries to explain what they can offer and how they believe membership will help them grow. 
After all groups have shared, have member nations vote on whether or not Turkey, Macedonia or Croatia should be admitted and why. Each country should then cast and explain their vote. 
To go further into the economic crisis, ask the country representatives to explore what would happen to them, and what they might do, if another member country has a financial crisis. Discuss the interrelationship between the member countries. What happens when countries with different economic success rates share a single currency? 
Going further | Individually, students put their positions from the debate in writing, making their country's case and responding to statements made by other "country representatives" in a persuasive essay. 
For an ongoing extension, students track current events about the European Union for a specific period of time and keep a journal of news and highlights around the economy and politics. Crate a classroom bulletin board on which students can add news stories they clip or print out, or their written reflections on the current events. 
Students could also track the value of the euro over a period of time and see how it changes as compared to the U.S. dollar or other currencies by going to XE Universal Currency Converter http://www.xe.com/ucc/ and graphing the rise or fall of the euro as it changes. Ask students to hang these graphs on the bulletin board as well to see the change in monetary value as the news changes. 
Or, students might use our handout Around the World With Different Currencies (PDF) to compare the value of various currencies. (Teacher directions are here.) 
 Standards | From , for grades 6-12: 
World History
43. Understands how post-World War II reconstruction occurred, new international power relations took shape, and colonial empires broke up
44. Understands the search for community, stability, and peace in an interdependent world
45. Understands major global trends since World War II
Geography
1-Understands the characteristics and uses of maps, globes, and other geographic tools and technologies
2-Knows the location of places, geographic features, and patterns of the environment
3-Understands the characteristics and uses of spatial organization of Earth's surface
4-Understands the physical and human characteristics of place
5-Understands the concept of regions
6-Understands that culture and experience influence people's perceptions of places and regions
Language Arts
1-Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process
2-Uses the stylistic and rhetorical aspects of writing
3-Uses grammatical and mechanical conventions in written compositions
4-Gathers and uses information for research purposes
Life Skills: Thinking and Reasoning
 1- Understands and applies the basic principles of presenting an argument

        
The Euro in Crisis
        
The European Debt Crisis, Visualized
        
Greece's Economic Turmoil
        
It's All Greek to Me: Understanding the Debt Crisis in Europe
        
Are You Seeing Signs of Economic Recovery?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (98%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); GEOGRAPHY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); WRITERS (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); EURO CRISIS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%) economic crisis; economy; EU; euro; European Union; Crises Around the World; Culture and Identity; Current Events; Economics; Environment and Society; Europe; Geography; Global Economics; Global History; International Relations; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Maps; Persuasive Writing; Power and Authority; Research Skills; Social Studies; World Cultures and Traditions

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (98%); GREECE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011



438 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: In Boston, A New Focus On the Local

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Before Peter DuBois even began his duties here in 2008 as artistic director of the Huntington Theater Company, the city's largest, he had dinner with one of the area's most prominent young playwrights, Lydia R. Diamond, to discuss ways of fostering relationships between the Huntington and local writers.
 Like many cash-hungry, nonprofit regional theaters, the Huntington has long depended on producing reliably popular classics (Shakespeare, O'Neill) and works by well-known modern writers (Tom Stoppard, Wendy Wasserstein) to make money from ticket sales. Since 2003, too, the Huntington has offered area playwrights fellowships that include readings, feedback and $3,000 honorariums, and Mr. DuBois told Ms. Diamond that he wanted to deepen those collaborations and produce more of those writers' works. 
 ''The fact is, the artistic and business models of the regional theaters in the 20th century are over, given the costs of creating theater and the competition for people's time, so I needed to rethink our relationship with our home community,'' Mr. DuBois said during a recent interview in one of the Huntington's rehearsal studios. ''To thrive, we need a theater with work and audiences that look more like the city of Boston in terms of class, age, race, background. And you have to talk to people here to learn how to do that.''
 As theaters large and small struggle with issues of relevance and financing, the Huntington's new approach suggests one way to gain traction. A major national study on the relationships between playwrights and nonprofit theaters, published in December, found a paucity of such conversations and even a sense of alienation among many playwrights. 
 But Ms. Diamond, who has made a name for herself in regional theater circles with her play ''Voyeurs de Venus'' and an adaptation of Toni Morrison's ''Bluest Eye,'' said that Mr. DuBois made her feel like a priority to the Huntington, where she had previously been a fellow.
 ''That dinner empowered me to say which plays of mine I was most invested in seeing produced, hopefully by the Huntington, and now it's happening,'' Ms. Diamond said. Her play ''Stick Fly,'' about culture clashes among members of a wealthy black family on Martha's Vineyard, is to begin performances on Friday at the Huntington's new 360-seat theater in Boston's South End, a popular neighborhood for young and gay people.
 ''I've noticed that there's always been a frustration among artists about a lack of access to big local institutions,'' she continued. ''No theater is perfect, but the Huntington is interested in trying to reorient its identity through its own community.''
 Founded in 1982, the Huntington has one of the largest budgets -- $11 million -- of any performing arts organization in the region, and also the biggest audience base, with 10,000 subscribers and an annual audience of more than 130,000. In the past, it was a busier proving ground for Broadway-bound plays: August Wilson's ''Joe Turner's Come and Gone'' and ''Piano Lesson'' had important early productions at the theater. The current Broadway revival of ''Present Laughter'' was first directed at the Huntington in 2007 by Nicholas Martin, who was Mr. DuBois's predecessor.
 Mr. DuBois, a Connecticut native who was previously the resident director of the Public Theater in New York and artistic director of Perseverance Theater in Alaska, began forging ties with writers here over coffee and meals during his first year. He said he also asked members of his board of trustees about their lives and experiences in the Boston area to start educating himself on themes and history that could be reflected in Huntington productions.
 Among the first people he hired was Lisa Timmel, like him a newcomer to Boston, who was brought in as the director of new work. Together they decided to reshape the Huntington Playwriting Fellows program by creating an application process for potential fellows, who traditionally had been chosen by the Huntington's artistic staff. The new approach, which began last fall, yielded some 60 applications; about 10 people were called in for interviews, and 3 new fellows were selected this winter.
 Ms. Timmel, who previously worked at Playwrights Horizons in New York, said the new process helped put the Huntington in touch with more local writers. Even those who were not chosen for interviews or fellowships, she said, are now on the radar. She and Mr. DuBois are also starting a summer reading series of new plays in Provincetown, Mass. 
 ''In New York you can bump into a playwright walking down the street, but Peter and I knew fewer people here, and that same concentration of writers doesn't quite exist in a spread-out area like greater Boston,'' Ms. Timmel said. 
 While the Huntington had close ties with some local writers under its previous leadership, Mr. DuBois and Ms. Timmel said that the current economic landscape for regional theater made it crucial to communicate with those whose work might appeal to people who traditionally have not been a part of the theater's audience. And for some of the writers being produced, the Huntington's interest is making Boston a more interesting place to do new work.
 Paula Vogel, who won the Pulitzer Prize in drama in 1998 for ''How I Learned to Drive'' and who has homes in Providence, R.I., and on Cape Cod, said that the best way to make Boston ''a more vibrant theatrical town was to nurture the community of writers who live there,'' and not simply produce revivals of the classics.
 ''There is no better way to forge a conversation between the stage and the audience than to have writers who live in the community talk back and forth with the community audiences,'' said Ms. Vogel, who is chairwoman of the playwriting program at Yale University and whose play ''A Civil War Christmas'' was produced at the Huntington late last year.
 The Huntington's traditional appeal to older white theatergoers is still preserved, with crowd pleasers like Arthur Miller's ''All My Sons'' and Craig Lucas's ''Prelude to a Kiss'' on this season's schedule. But given that the Huntington cut $1.5 million from its budget for this season in response to the economy, theater experts in the Boston area say they are also grateful that the Huntington appears committed to increasing financial and job opportunities for new and emerging artists.
 ''From casting Boston-area actors in Huntington productions to staging the work of promising young playwrights, it's inspiring,'' said Barbara W. Grossman, chairwoman of the drama and dance department at Tufts University, who was recently part of a site visit at the Huntington as vice chairwoman of the Massachusetts Cultural Council, a state agency. ''Their cultivation of new playwriting voices and new audiences is something to watch.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The playwright Lydia R. Diamond onstage with Peter DuBois, artistic director of the Huntington Theater, which is staging Ms. Diamond's ''Stick Fly.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYCE VICKMARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 From left, Nikkole Salter, Jason Dirden, Billy Eugene Jones and Rosie Benton in the Huntington Theater's ''Stick Fly (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT SUCHMAN) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); TICKET SALES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (55%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



439 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Shares Gain as Merck Reports Strong Results

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks posted their biggest daily percentage gain in three months on Tuesday after strong revenue from the drug maker Merck and positive regional manufacturing data instilled confidence in the economic outlook. 
 Resource-related shares were among the strongest gainers as a weaker United States dollar set off buying in oil and other commodities.
 The CRB commodities index made its largest one-day percentage advance in three months and the energy company Chevron was the top gainer in the Dow industrials, up 2.8 percent, or $1.98, to $72.99.
 Shares of Merck gained 2 percent, or 74 cents, to $37.66, after it posted quarterly revenue above analysts' estimates.
 ''Earnings have been strong and people are starting to believe the recovery we're seeing in the economy is real,'' said Angel Mata, managing director of listed equity trading at Stifel Nicolaus Capital Markets in Baltimore. ''There's more of a fear that investors will miss the next move up, as opposed to not being involved and watching the market go down.''
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index resumed weekly gains last Friday after four consecutive weeks of declines that were partly caused by fiscal weakness in Greece and other euro-zone countries as well as uncertainty about China's moves to curb bank lending.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 169.67 points, or 1.68 percent, to 10,268.81. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 19.36 points, or 1.80 percent, to 1,094.87. The Nasdaq composite index gained 30.66 points, or 1.40 percent, to 2,214.19.
 In another encouraging sign, the New York Federal Reserve Bank's gauge of manufacturing in New York State rose more than expected in February. Its Empire State general business conditions index rose to 24.91 in February, the highest level since October and up from 15.92 in January.
 ''The U.S. manufacturing sector shows no signs of slowing down in February,'' said Kathy Lien, director of currency research at GFT in New York. ''The strong number will lead the markets to expect a similar improvement in the Philadelphia Fed index, which will be released Thursday.''
 Financial stocks rose after Barclays, the British bank, said it nearly doubled profits in 2009 to $18.2 billion. JPMorgan shares climbed 2.9 percent, to $40.07.
 Shares of the Southern Company gained 2.3 percent, to $31.88, after President Obama announced loan guarantees of $8.3 billion to build the nation's first nuclear plant in nearly three decades. 
 A Southern subsidiary, Georgia Power, received the guarantees.
 Simon Property said it had made a $10 billion offer for General Growth Properties, heightening optimism in the battered commercial real estate market with a combination of the two largest shopping mall owners in the nation. Simon shares rose 3.9 percent, to $74.82.
 On the Nasdaq, shares of the chip maker Intel increased 1.4 percent, to $20.72, after a brokerage firm raised its rating on the stock to a buy.
 Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 9/32, to 99 23/32, and the yield fell to 3.66 percent from 3.69 percent late Friday.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of three-and six-month bills: 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer)
 The Dow Minute by Minute (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); RETAIL PROPERTY (61%)

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (94%); SOUTHERN CO (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (53%); GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC (50%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (94%); MRK (NYSE) (94%); SO (NYSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%); GGP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (83%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (83%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (50%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%); GREECE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



440 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Lessons in Simplicity At an Arizona Bistro

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: SURPRISE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
 IN a restaurant tucked away in a strip mall here, between a military recruitment center and Doggy Style, a pet supply store, scallops sizzle quietly in brown butter, almost ready to join a plate of perfectly cooked Israeli couscous. 
 A table of four polishes off a bottle of pinot noir, and the diners find themselves unable to stop picking at the last luscious bits of bread pudding. Overcome by a fluffy seduction of starch, a nearby woman licks mashed potatoes off the back of a spoon. 
 It was sheer lack of planning, and a bit of real estate lust, that led a pair of French-trained chefs to establish their country-French bistro in this exurb of Phoenix, where chain restaurants dominate and residents balk at $22 entrees.
 This has meant a scaling down of some dreams, accepting that the most popular dish at Amuse Bouche would not be a rediscovered classic from the annals of Auguste Escoffier, but rather meatloaf. It has also meant having to say no, gently, to those who ask to have their wedge of quiche split in half to share. 
 ''The first year we were here, nobody came,'' said Kierstin Mor, a chef and an owner of Amuse Bouche with her husband, Snir. 
 The growing success of the Mors' venture in the desert about 20 miles northwest of central Phoenix says much about how some restaurants in this state, one of the most fiscally hammered in the nation, are staying alive through modified ambitions and simple fare. 
 ''I think we're all trying to bring reality back to dining,'' said James Porter, a celebrated chef in Scottsdale who last spring shuttered his large and expensive restaurant, Tapino Kitchen & Wine Bar, in favor of a French bistro of his own, Petite Maison. ''What we are doing now has no crack, crunch or sizzle of molecular gastronomy. We're just trying to get back to the way people used to eat.'' 
 Restaurants in Phoenix, the nation's fifth largest city, may labor in the shadows cast by San Francisco and Los Angeles to the west and Las Vegas to the north. With its mix of ethnic influences -- particularly Mexican -- and its fair share of prize-winning chefs, the city has enjoyed quiet but proud footing as an underrated food town among snowbirds and natives.
 But most of the city's best restaurants tend to be concentrated downtown and in central Phoenix, and in Scottsdale, a wealthy resort suburb. Independent restaurants offering sophisticated dining in the West Valley, as the area around Surprise is called, are few. 
 ''For them to be out there is kind of shocking, really,'' said Gwen Ashley Walters, a food writer in Phoenix who sees Amuse Bouche as one of her greatest finds of the last few years. ''The clientele out there is either older or very young families that don't have the money to eat out like that.'' But almost two years after it opened, Amuse Bouche is filling tables as other restaurants around the city fold. 
 The Mors have always aimed their knives high. They met cute over their cutting boards at a culinary school in Paris in 2002. Ms. Mor, a San Francisco native who studied computer technology in college, had been working in a lucrative job in Paris for an American technology firm, but found herself continually seduced by farmers' markets and croque-madames. ''I dreaded how was I going to break the news to my parents,'' Ms. Mor said. ''I was going to dump my $100,000 education and work in restaurants.'' 
 Mr. Mor was born in Israel and also found the kitchen irresistible. An engineer in the Israeli navy, he spent his weekends secretly peeling potatoes for free in a restaurant in Haifa, until they finally asked him to work full time. He soon left for Paris to hone his skills. 
 After finishing culinary school in 2003, marrying and moving back to the United States, the couple began to mull their options. San Francisco, where Ms. Mor owned a condo, was too costly to start a restaurant. Ms. Mor's parents had recently moved to the West Valley.
 The couple was drawn to the area's inexpensive real estate and high population growth. It is in Maricopa County, which was one of the fastest-growing counties in the nation before it imploded in the foreclosure crisis.
 ''I could not believe I was walking into a 3,000-square-foot home for $200,000,'' Ms. Mor said. ''Everything looked new and fun, and we were thinking, 'Oh, my God, we could move here and have a big home and start our restaurant and make our dreams come true.' Plus we wanted to have kids right away. We thought maybe we should come here and my folks can help. We didn't know anything about Arizona.'' 
 They began with catering. Slowly, the 24-seat restaurant opened. But in an area swaddled by territory where 75 percent of the population is older than 65, even French bistro food met some resistance -- especially over prices like $24 for a scallop dish. 
 ''A lady called to complain that four scallops for that price, she didn't get a potato or salad,'' Ms. Mor said. ''I can't come out and explain to her that organic spring greens and candied pecans are $11 a bag.'' So while the scallops have remained, along with loin of lamb with Cotija cheese and sunchokes, the Mors have learned to accept that they are most famous for their meatloaf and cabernet hamburger, as well as the quiche. 
 The food critics caught on, and now a smattering of Phoenix diners are willing to make the 45-minute trek and bring their own wine (the restaurant has no liquor license). The calls to split a quiche have lessened. Ms. Mor is thrilled that their place is catching on, and paying the bills. 
 ''We have to be true to ourselves and just hope people come because they appreciate the food,'' she said. ''The first year there was no restaurant business and all catering. Now, because of the economy, there is no catering and all restaurant. I can only imagine the year when the two come together.''
 Recipe: Mediterranean Citrus Chicken Skewers with Tahini Sauce Adapted from Amuse Bouche, Surprise, Ariz. Time: 35 minutes, plus overnight marinating
 Adapted from Amuse Bouche, Surprise, Ariz.
 Time: 35 minutes, plus overnight marinating
 FOR THE CHICKEN:
 1/3 cup peeled sliced ginger
 6 cloves garlic
 1 teaspoon salt
 1/2 teaspoon paprika
 1/2 cup lemon juice
 1/2 teaspoon Tabasco or other hot sauce
 1/2 cup extra virgin olive oil
 2 pounds skinless boneless chicken breasts, cut into 1-inch cubes
 Vegetable oil or nonstick cooking spray, for broiling pan
 FOR THE TAHINI SAUCE:
 1/2 cup tahini paste
 2 cloves garlic
 1/2 teaspoon salt
 2 1/2 tablespoons lemon juice
 1/2 cup (packed) flat-leaf parsley leaves.
 1. For the chicken: In a blender combine the ginger, garlic, teaspoon salt, paprika, lemon juice and hot sauce. Blend on high speed until smooth, about 1 minute. With the motor running, add olive oil and blend until combined. Place chicken in a bowl, add marinade and mix well. Cover and refrigerate overnight.
 2. For the tahini sauce: In a blender combine tahini, garlic, salt, lemon juice, and 1/4 cup water. Blend until smooth, adding more water if needed to bring to a syrupy consistency. Add parsley and blend again until finely chopped. Add salt to taste. May be served immediately or covered and refrigerated overnight.
 3. To finish and serve: Place 6 to 8 six-inch bamboo skewers in a bowl of water to soak briefly. Heat broiler and lightly oil a broiling pan, or prepare grill. Thread marinated chicken cubes close together on skewers, and arrange on broiling pan or grill so they are close together but not touching. Broil, turning once, until lightly browned on all sides and opaque in center; be careful not to overcook. Serve on or off skewers, with tahini sauce. 
 Yield: 4 to 6 servings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UNPRETENTIOUS: Snir Mor, left, and his wife, Kierstin Mor, prepare a slice of clafoutis at Amuse Bouche, below, their bistro in Surprise, Ariz. Right, the rack of lamb with artichoke hearts, baby beets and goat cheese. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (93%); RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (73%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



441 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Forecasting A Snowfall: The Bigger The Better

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
It has become a fixed feature of the television news landscape: hype at 6, slightly more educated hype at 11, followed by team coverage of the weather event of the moment. A northeaster one day, ''Snowmageddon'' another. There may be significant developments in Congress or Haiti or a shooting in Brooklyn or the Bronx, but first, the weather.
 No one remembers precisely when it happened, when the weather -- or more often than not, the mere prospect of weather -- automatically became a top story on local newscasts. But in a winter when forecasters have had more to talk about than when you will need an umbrella in the morning, viewers have noticed. 
 ''This isn't anything new, but like a snowball rolling down a hill, it's gained momentum,'' said Storm Field, who for more than 30 years forecast the weather on three television stations in New York. ''There was a point -- I think this goes back 20 years or more -- when you had consultants coming in, telling stations weather was something important and you should move it up in the show.''
 Mr. Field said that in making snowfall predictions toward the end of his career, ''I had these moments where I thought they wouldn't be happy if I didn't get on the air like Crazy Eddie and scream, 'It's coming, it's coming, white death from the sky.' '' 
 Robert J. Thompson, a professor of popular culture at Syracuse University, said weather coverage, not to mention the promise of weather coverage at the opening of a local news program, was ''absolutely'' driven by ratings. 
 ''The ratings go up with that kind of coverage,'' he said. 
 And, Mr. Field said, ''ratings equal revenue.''
 ''Therefore, the more ratings you can generate, the more revenue you can generate,'' he continued. ''And in a failing economic climate where people can go online and get instant weather gratification, they've got to do something.''
 Professor Thompson said weather had become a continuing story with its own narrative. On Monday night, the forecasters were once again talking about warnings and accumulations, with maps behind them that looked ominous -- even if the approaching storm was smaller than the one last week. 
 ''The narrative develops that says, 'O.K., we were once in a cold war with the Soviet Union, then we were in a war on drugs, then the war on terror, now there's the war on snow,' '' Professor Thompson said. ''What we're seeing in this recent extreme coverage of the weather and these snowstorms, we have seen played out a thousand times. It's not that different than 'balloon boy' or the Michael Jackson trial. 
 ''When one of these stories gets into the supernarrative of the news cycle, you've built up equity value in the story, and it's really hard to let go. To stop the story when the storm is over would be like moving out of your house the day you pay off the mortgage.''
 Ted Faraone, who has been a publicist or public relations consultant for six New York stations over the years, said stations went all out for weather events because ''weather's easy to do.''
 ''All you have to do is find a car accident or a fallen tree or stand out in Fifth Avenue and ask how they like the snow,'' Mr. Faraone said. ''I mean, this is not exactly investigative journalism. And the city made this last blizzard a bigger deal when they closed the schools the day before.''
 Mr. Faraone said stations competed to be the first to break into regular programming with a significant story, even one about the weather. He said there was another consideration: awards for the broadcasters covering the weather. 
 ''The big breaking-news story team coverage -- always the big snowstorm or the big flood, whatever cockamamie weather event happened, is always entered in the local Emmy Awards,'' he said.
 And, he added, it almost always wins.
 After the fact, of course.
 Mr. Field said he still remembered his instructions from certain news directors. ''Usually they'd tell me, 'We're leading the show with the weather, you've got to push it harder,' '' he recalled. ''I'd say, 'This storm's not a big deal.' They'd say: 'We're leading the show with it; it is a big deal.' ''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 24, 2010

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with an article in some editions last Wednesday about the dominance of the weather as a top story on local newscasts misstated the name of the airline whose plane was being de-iced at Kennedy International Airport. It is Alitalia, not Air Alitalia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At Kennedy International Airport on Tuesday, an Air Alitalia aircraft was de-iced with radiant heat in an open hangar before taking off during a snowstorm. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); COLD WAR (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



442 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: If You Can't Take the Heat, Don't Read Me On Twitter

BYLINE: By JULIA MOSKIN

 BODY:
NEW YORK CITY'S restaurant world has never been cuddly, but last week may have seen its first shouting match prompted by a Twitter post. 
 During last Wednesday's snowstorm, the owner and chef of JoeDoe restaurant in the East Village, Joe Dobias, tweeted that his deliveries from upstate purveyors had arrived, but not fish from a local supplier. He didn't post the supplier's name, but the next morning, Robert DeMasco of Pierless Fish -- who also delivers to restaurants like Daniel and Esca -- called Mr. Dobias to tell him that his business was no longer welcome. Then things became loud. 
 Mr. Dobias, who has been airing grievances on the Internet since opening the restaurant in 2008, shrugged off the conflict in an interview on Thursday and said that he had found a new purveyor. ''What are we, teenage girls now?'' he said. ''How is it good business to make decisions off some lame thing you read on the Internet?'' 
 Mr. Dobias is an extreme example of how chefs are now going online to confront customers, bloggers, critics, rivals and sometimes even their bosses. 
 ''Maybe he should get to work instead of spending his time Twittering,'' said Mr. DeMasco, adding that the delivery had arrived early but that Mr. Dobias hadn't been there to receive it.
 For many chefs in the current economic climate, cooking no longer seems enough. To make their names, they need to develop online personas as well as culinary ones. And with instant access to the Web, chefs -- who have traditionally been walled up behind the dining room -- are bursting out and talking back, often more profanely than can be conveyed here.
 In January, the chef Jason Neroni of Blanca, north of San Diego, blasted back at anonymous critics who had posted negative comments on Yelp.com. ''Yelp is for cowards,'' he tweeted, who don't have the courage ''to say anything while in your restaurant.'' 
 Ulrich Sterling of Agua Dulce in Midtown recently vented on Twitter about customers who e-mail from the table. ''I don't care what e-mail you have to send out,'' he wrote, it can wait. ''Stop. Drink. Eat. Enjoy the company.''
 Ryan Skeen, who was unhappy as executive chef at Allen & Delancey on the Lower East Side in November, said that he deliberately -- and successfully -- provoked the restaurant's owner, Richard Friedberg, into firing him with a series of posts on Twitter, culminating in ''Get me ...out of NYC I can't do it anymore'' on Nov. 11. 
 ''I knew that Eater would pick it up immediately,'' he said last week in an interview, referring to the Web site that breathlessly covers the New York food world. ''And then the owners would have to do something.'' He was fired days later. (Mr. Friedberg said Mr. Skeen was let go because of the way he ran the restaurant -- ''Twitter had nothing do with it; I never even read it.'') 
 Mr. Skeen, who said he is now developing recipes for a new restaurant in Manhattan, has barely posted since. ''My girlfriend and my publicist told me to cut it out,'' he said. 
 But it seems likely that more and more chefs will be jockeying for attention on the Internet. The lure of free publicity is enormous. 
 ''JoeDoe is a character I play online to keep my name in front of people,'' Mr. Dobias said. ''I just need them to come into my restaurant, and then my food will do the talking and I can shut up.'' 
 Other chefs see an opportunity for control. ''Before the Web and Twitter, restaurants were completely controlled by the press, and chefs and restaurants just had to sit back and take it,'' said Kristine Lefebvre, wife of the Los Angeles chef Ludovic Lefebvre, who tweets frequently as @FrenchChefWife. ''Now we have a voice.''
 Amanda Cohen of the East Village vegetarian restaurant Dirt Candy was displeased by a New York Times Dining Brief review last year, and wrote a lengthy response on her restaurant's Web site. When Sarah DiGregorio of The Village Voice wrote last month that the tofu at Baohaus on the Lower East Side seemed ''slicked with mucus,'' an owner, Eddie Huang, responded online. 
 ''She was probably right,'' he said in an interview. ''With tofu, if you don't fry it just right, it does get mucus-like, so I posted on Yelp that everyone who came in would get a free tofu bao. And I made sure they were perfect.'' 
 Not many chefs use Twitter to do more than promote their specials. Ivy Stark of Dos Caminos (@IvyStark), Chris Cosentino of Incanto in San Francisco (@OffalChris), and Dave Schuttenberg of Cabrito (@CabritoChefDave) are lively exceptions. But the few who have found their voice online have often done so in a spectacular manner, and those posts are often noted, linked and re-tweeted on food blogs like Eater and New York magazine's Grub Street. 
 Last week, Mr. Dobias aired on Twitter a longing to run his bicycle over the editor of Grub Street, Daniel Maurer, because of perceived slights. 
 ''Obviously Joe Doe is feeling a little stressed,'' Mr. Maurer responded on the blog, adding jokingly, ''we'd like to offer him a massage.'' 
 Mr. Dobias's tweet was deleted.
 Mr. Skeen noted that chefs may get infuriated by blogs, but they benefit from the notoriety they generate. ''They want us to be rock stars, which doesn't have anything to do with what we do in the kitchen,'' he said. ''But, on the other hand, let's be honest, we're getting paid twice as much as we used to.'' 
 Many chefs say they join the online scrum to protect their restaurants. They say the pressure for immediate success has become intolerable -- bloggers, Yelpers and the like weigh in too early and too often. According to Foodbuzz, a central site for food blogs, 11,000 writers upload posts to the site. ''On the one hand, the Internet opened everything up, which is great,'' Mr. Huang said. ''And on the other hand, it lowered everything down, which is too bad.'' 
 Baohaus, which opened in December, is much loved by commenters on Yelp, but Mr. Huang is touchy about online slights: last week, he posted a rant on his blog, in response to a post on Chowhound that mildly queried the authenticity of his boiled-peanut recipe. 
 For most chefs, using social media like Twitter and Facebook is a simple, conscious marketing decision to keep their names in front of the public. 
 Those who do it tend to be extroverted in person and online, like the Lefebvres, (Ms. Lefebvre, a lawyer, appeared topless in Playboy magazine in 2007 when she was a contestant on the reality-TV show ''The Apprentice''). 
 The Lefebvres took to the Internet last year to respond to a blogger's critique that the tuna tartare served at their restaurant LudoBites was served too rare -- it is raw, on purpose -- and that the sweetbreads were ''lackluster,'' though as the blogger, Diana Hossfeld, admitted in the post, she had never had sweetbreads before. Ms. Lefebvre posted a lengthy response to Ms. Hossfeld's blog that the writer said reduced her to tears. (They have reconciled.)
 ''I didn't mean to take her apart, but her words were ignorant and ill informed, and they would have stayed up there forever,'' Ms. Lefebvre said. 
 The Lefebvres have expanded their publicity campaign to Twitter, he as @chefludo and she as @FrenchChefWife. Last week, they tweeted on the progress of 2,000 portions of fried chicken and Mr. Lefebvre's mood, leading up to Saturday's L.A. Street Food Fest. 
 ''It's a way for people to understand a chef's process, and frankly, how hard we are working to make a living in this business,'' she said. ''Maybe following us, seeing how hard we are working, would make someone think twice before trashing a dish.''
 Ms. Lefebvre has found perhaps the most practical application for a chef's Twitter feed: immediately filling restaurant tables when there are no-shows. 
 The online dialogue has not just been between chef and public, but between chef and chef. Mr. Dobias took a swipe at David Chang. Mr. Skeen called out his fellow chef Jim Lahey on Twitter, criticizing his decision to complain about a Times review of his Chelsea pizzeria, Co. And Mr. Huang of Baohaus violated the final culinary taboo last week when he posted a list of Asian restaurants he thought were awful, shattering a stone-etched code: do not criticize another chef outside the community. 
 ''I never wanted to be part of a community,'' he said. ''Why should I back you up when your food is dishonest?'' 
 Mr. Huang has a particular beef with restaurants that dumb down Asian food, or that lower the high standards of flavor and technique that he identifies with his Taiwanese family's cooking. He also said that exaggerated trash talk is part of the hip-hop culture he was immersed in as a clothing designer, before turning his talents to the kitchen. 
 He called Joe's Shanghai a ''hellhole,'' and said of Anita Lo's Rickshaw Dumplings, ''The dumplings are horrible and the kitschy Chinese branding is offensive.'' 
 He seems confident in his judgments. ''I don't put you on blast unless you are a serious problem,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BOILING OVER: On his blog and elsewhere online, Eddie Huang violates the taboo about publicly criticizing other chefs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE GLASSBERG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
ONLINE FUEDING: Disputes can quickly escalate. Ryan Skeen, above right, says he used Twitter to get fired by Richard Friedberg, left. Joe Dobias, below left, tweeted about wanting to run over a critic, Daniel Maurer, with his bike.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY J.B. REED/BLOOMBERG, VIA GETTY IMAGES
CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES
 LEA GOLIS/NEW YORK MAGAZINE)(D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (87%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: YELP! INC (53%)

TICKER: YELP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



443 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Q. & A. WITH MICHAEL WHAN; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2320 words

HEADLINE: Taking Charge of a Tour in Flux

BYLINE: By LARRY DORMAN

 BODY:
As the ninth commissioner of the Ladies Professional Golf Association Tour, Michael Whan, 44, has taken the reins of an organization in flux. Its last commissioner, Carolyn Bivens, left after a player revolt at last year's United States Women's Open over sponsor defections, some of them caused as much by Bivens's autocratic management style as by the slumping economy.
 The 2010 outlook is uncertain for the tour, which gets under way Thursday with the Honda PTT L.P.G.A. in Thailand. There are 25 tournaments on the schedule this season, down from 34 in 2008 and from 27 last year, and there are nine open dates between now and June. Although Whan will admit to facing a learning curve and acknowledge some challenges, he seems confident of where the tour is going.
 A graduate of Miami University in Ohio with a Procter & Gamble background, Whan was a marketing and sales executive at TaylorMade Adidas Golf and then turned around a struggling hockey gear company in Orange County, Calif. Sleeping is not high on his priority list, nor is thinking about things outside his control -- traits associated with chief executives and successful sports commissioners. He has been the former and is learning to become the latter. People who know him say he is a quick study, and he is determined to show just how quick. LARRY DORMAN 
 Q.You are opening the season in Thailand this week and then going to Singapore. Doesn't it hurt the opener to not have it on live TV in the United States?
 A. I think the L.P.G.A. -- and we should take pride in this -- is showcasing its brand worldwide. We're doing that with fans, players and sponsors, and the developmental programs around the world prove it. We put the show on the road, and we do it often enough that you can wake up one day and 7 of your top 10 players in the world can come from different countries, from outside the U.S. That's a testament to what the L.P.G.A. has become. Fifteen years ago, people wondered if the L.P.G.A. could be any bigger or better because it was really limited to the U.S. and Europe. Nobody asks that question today.
 All you have to do is go to Q-School and see how many different flags are flying above the practice range to realize we're really worldwide. To us it's a duty to showcase the best all around the world. We'll always be a U.S.-based business; we'll always have our home in the U.S. Like any other business that has gone global in the last 20 years, going global isn't easy and a lot of people will tell you it's tough to do the process. But when you wake up on the other side, it's such a better business model. We're not going to turn back, because the players and the fan base wouldn't let us. And not only is the fan base growing, but our sponsor base is growing because of the global nature of our tour.
 Q.There are still a lot of moving parts -- entering the season with just 9 of your 25 tournaments, not including majors, on live TV. Do you find it overwhelming at times?
 A. In business I have found there are two kinds of overwhelming. There's the 'Oh my gosh do I have a lot to do and where am I going to find the time and the ability to do all of this?' And there is the 'I've got so many interested, passionate, exciting people to help, how do I make sure I utilize all of them and don't use that as a distraction but as a positive?' The good news for me is that it's the latter. The key for me is how do I make sure Iget them all on the same train going on the same track. I'd much rather have that problem.
 Q.Your biggest challenge so far?
 A. I think the biggest challenge to the job, not necessarily the company but the job -- and I don't know if I'd have said this 60 days ago -- has been focus. The core responsibility of getting the best women players in the world out on the course playing for money and on TV is a fairly simple business challenge. I think, on the commissioner front, so many of the requirements and needs -- I don't want to use the word distractions, which I would have as a C.E.O. -- the different requirements and requests and constituents come through me every day. None are unimportant or irrelevant. But if you're not careful, you can actually finish a 10-, 12-hour day and realize you spent zero amount of time focusing on the most important thing: that is our business partners, who get our players on the golf course.
 Q.Have 10-hour or longer days been the norm?
 A. My wife and kids are not going to move until the summer. I have three teenage boys, so moving them in the middle of school and teams and seasons was unexciting to everyone including me. My wife said, you know, you're not going to be much of a father the first six or seven months anyway, so go do what you got to do. When you're somewhere else from your wife and kids, there's no guilt in coming home at 11 o'clock at night.
 Q.Are you staying fresh enough?
 A. I'm excited about it. I love the topic, I love the challenge I've really enjoyed the people. I've always been an early-morning person, so starting my day at 6:30 in the office is normal for me. It's not normal to come home at 11 o'clock at night. But I've got a few months of that just because there's so much to learn. I don't have to be there; I'm just enjoying the orientation process.
 Q.So your routine is?
 A. I've been working a couple of weeks or three weeks and then go home for a three- or four-day weekend, that kind of span, and think I might do that for this six months and then when the school season ends in June, we'll move in June or July.
 Q.The difficulties of attracting corporate sponsors in the current economic climate are well known, and yet one of your top priorities has to be to find sponsors to fill some of the holes on the schedule.
 A. It is the No. 1 priority. I wouldn't even call it one of, it is the. There certainly are other things to do, but No. 1 is about getting us playing a lot more often, a lot more places and on TV. Nobody got to avoid what happened to the business community in 2008 and 2009, and certainly businesses that were downsizing and challenging the sports marketing plan, nobody was immune to that -- certainly not the L.P.G.A., either. At the same time it's kind of helped us all realize that none of this is a given and you've got to work for it. We've got to make sure that when these title partners sign up with us that we're working hard for their business, not just working hard for the purse.
 Q.Could you explain the term title partner instead of sponsor?
 A. I've said many times I don't even like the term sponsor. A sponsor, you sell something to. A partner, you go into business with. We've just got to get into the mind-set that we partner up with these title holders and we have to understand what they need and want to get out it from a business perspective. The real work begins after you've signed the contract and not before. The best business to be in is contract renewal, when people love what you're doing working for them and want you to keep doing it.
 Q.Can share any insight into how you're going to do that?
 A. I don't think I'm letting the cat out of the bag to say that one of the terms I've got us talking about is what I call ROO, which is return on objective. If you have five title partners sitting in front of you, they probably have four different reasons why they do the event. All of them are important, they're just different reasons for different folks. Some are all about a charity opportunity; some are about moving cases of product; some are all about community outreach in one of the key areas where they have employment; some are all about getting close to the top 50 or 100 customers and it's all about customer interaction and securing better business with the customers. They all have sort of a primary objective.
 Q.How do you get this across to players and staff?
 A. I've said to some of the players: 'You've got a warning. Coming soon ... ' I would like by 2011, when the players and my staff and I roll into a tournament, we all know very well what the objectives are of this tournament sponsor is and we're all about it, not only the week we're there, but in the weeks before it and the weeks after. If we all know what we're trying to achieve for CVS, or Honda, or Kia, then we're all working for them and we realize it's more than a golf tournament. It's an important corporate effort, and making it succeed is key to what we do.
 Q.Any other ways your partners get value from the relationship?
 A. I've got some ideas that are from the first 30 days, you get a lot of ideas and you just don't know which are the good ones for another 60 days. We're going to try things -- our pricing is a little complex right now -- to sit across from a C.E.O. and explain how the whole thing works. I've looked at it as a C.E.O. and said this doesn't have to be this hard. It could be real simple to explain so everybody gets it and we don't spend a lot of time with all the different price points. So I think we'll have to change how we price, which doesn't mean our price will be different, just a lot easier to understand. Right now it's a little cryptic.
 Q.Are you staffed up enough with experienced hands who can identify opportunities to find new partners?
 A. I do have people doing that who I feel are pretty talented. I also would tell you that given that that's the No. 1 objective -- finding new partners, bringing new tournaments to the table -- that's also where you're going to see an increased devotion of resources and people on my side.
 Q.You just hired John Podany from a senior executive position at the PGA Tour as your chief marketing officer. How will he fit in?
 A. First, John has 15 years of selling golf title sponsorships in his background, which gets right to using resources to support your No. 1 objective. I knew John at Procter & Gamble; we came out of school at the same time. We've been friends for a long time, and he brings some significant horsepower to the table. He's just a perfect fit. His wife is a super athlete and he has three girls who are all world-class athletes, so the idea for him enhancing and growing women's opportunities in sport and getting exposure for some of the best women athletes in the world is a little personal for him. So that's great for me and for the organization. 
 Q.You inherited the 10-year relationship with the Golf Channel. What are your thoughts on it?
 A. First and foremost, it gives our tour a home, a consistent location for our fans to find us. One of the criticisms we heard was that we were just kind of all over the place and it was difficult to find us. The second thing it gives us is a significant media partner with a skin in the game to want to see us grow and get better. I mean, their 10-year deal looks great if we really grow this thing over the next five years, and it doesn't look so great if we don't. I talk to the Golf Channel once a day, and it's always on the same topics -- how can we do more better to help the fans get to meet these personalities on the tour? Anybody who follows the L.P.G.A., and even those who don't regularly, the one thing they all agree on is that the personalities on the L.P.G.A. are second to none -- exciting young women who are having fun on the golf course. They're fun to look at, fun to watch and they perform at a freakishly high level. Our job is to make sure that more people not only get to see them, but also get to know them.
 Q.This is not your father's L.P.G.A. is it?
 A. I tell people all the time that the Solheim Cup was the No. 1 reason why I became the commissioner, at least on my side. I mean, I've never had so much fun viewing golf that I can remember in a long time. I had my 12-year-old son next to me, and we were visiting my parents and we had three generations of Whans sitting together on the couch high-fiving and laughing. I remember turning off the TV and telling my dad I was going to call back the recruitment firm and tell them this is a fantastic product I'd feel blessed to feel part of. It was a spectacular viewing event. It was hard not to root for both sides, not to love the personalities. These were women who were having a lot of fun, nervous, competing, hitting the shots of their lives, and as a golf fan it was hard to turn away.
 Q.Have you had an opportunity to visit with your PGA Tour counterpart, Tim Finchem?
 A. I drove up to Ponte Vedra, might have been Day 5 of my tenure. He was one of the first people who e-mailed me after my announcement, which I was very impressed with. He said any time, anyplace, so I just decided to take him up on it. Spent about two and a half hours, just he and I in his office, and then he set up the rest of the day where I could meet with different executives in different departments. If there would have been a way for him to be more welcoming to me, I don't know what it would have been. Since then, we've exchanged e-mails and text messages. He is a clear partner to the L.P.G.A. I don't know what I expected, but he's certainly surpassed any expectation I ever had.
 Q.You really do seek input, talking to and visiting with past commissioners, founders, former sponsors, the U.S.G.A. in Far Hills. What do you learn?
 A. When I was 9 years old my father told me, 'I'm going to teach you about a game that will teach you more about life than I will.' I thought my dad would teach me everything I ever needed to know. First and foremost, as a fan and a guy who loves the game, I'm interested in talking to people. And it only took me a few of those calls to realize how much more I could learn. Whether it's calling up an Annika Sorenstam or Charlie Mechem or going to meet Tim Finchem or just bending the ear of a David Fay, as a golfer I find that interesting, and as an incoming commissioner who clearly has a lot to learn, where else would I get better learning?
 The full interview with Michael Whan is at nytimes.com/sports. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Whan watching an L.P.G.A. event in 2009, before he became commissioner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT HALLERAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); GOLF (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TOURNAMENTS (73%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LADIES PROFESSIONAL GOLF ASSOCIATION (84%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (77%); THAILAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



444 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Estimates of Quake Damage In Haiti Increase by Billions

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 

 BODY:
The devastating earthquake that hit Haiti last month may have caused billions of dollars more in damage than initially estimated, according to a study released Tuesday by the Inter-American Development Bank.
 The study, based on a statistical analysis of data from 2,000 natural disasters over 40 years, estimates that the cost could be $7.2 billion to $13.2 billion, based on a death toll of 200,000 to 250,000; earlier estimates had hovered around $5 billion. 
 The authors -- Eduardo A. Cavallo, Andrew Powell and Oscar Becerra -- said their early snapshot was ''useful to put this event into perspective and to inform the international community of the enormity of the challenge that lies ahead in the task of reconstructing Haiti.'' 
 But they underlined their caution about the exact figures, writing: ''We cannot know if the experience with past episodes around the world will be relevant for Haiti. Every event is different, and although we control for country and regional specific characteristics in the regression, we could have missed something.''
 A more comprehensive estimate of damages is under way by experts at the Inter-American bank, the World Bank and the United Nations Development Fund. But it is already clear, the development bank's economists said, that the ''sum will be beyond the scope of one agency or one bilateral donor'' and require significant international cooperation to manage.
 Established 60 years ago, the Inter-American Development Bank, based in Washington, has 48 members, including 26 Latin American and Caribbean countries. The United States is its strongest single member.
 The authors note that Haiti's economy is likely to be stunted by the earthquake for many years, citing an earlier study that shows that ''even 10 years after a major disaster, the affected country growth may be some 30 percent below what growth would have been.''
 In terms of rebuilding Haiti's homes, schools, roads and other infrastructure, the study released Tuesday said, the cost is expected to be many times lower than that of Hurricane Katrina in 2005, a result of the far higher costs of property in the United States. Katrina's price tag was put at more than $100 billion.
 But in terms of Haiti's economy coupled with the number of deaths per million inhabitants -- Haiti's population was at 8.7 million before the earthquake struck -- the development bank's study estimates Haiti's quake is likely to be the most destructive natural disaster in modern times. 
 It caused five times more deaths per million inhabitants, the bank said, than the second-ranking natural killer, the 1972 earthquake in Nicaragua. The Haiti quake will be vastly more destructive that the Asian tsunami in 2004 and the cyclone that hit Myanmar in 2008. 
 The astronomical figures were difficult to fathom for Haiti's traumatized residents, but they certainly agreed that the earthquake's damage had been profound.
 ''All those buildings, the cars, the collapsed houses, a lot has been lost,'' said Jean Philippe Dorzin, 32, interviewed on the edge of a vast squatter camp in Port-au-Prince's Champ de Mars, where thousands of displaced people now live within sight of the damaged National Palace and other destroyed government buildings. ''One thing we'll never recover is all the people we've lost. You can't put a price on them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The remains of a pharmacy burned on a desolate street in Portau- Prince, Haiti, in late January, two weeks after the quake. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (91%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); TSUNAMIS (78%); HURRICANES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); WRITERS (75%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (73%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%)

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (95%)

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (95%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (94%); MYANMAR (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NICARAGUA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



445 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: 3 Companies Quit Group Over Moves On Climate

BYLINE: By JOHN LORINC

 BODY:
Three large corporations are quitting the Climate Action Partnership, a group in Washington that has sought to find common ground among corporations and environmental groups in battling global warming.
 The three companies cited concerns over the direction that climate change legislation has taken in Congress. Oil companies are particularly upset about concessions Congress has made to the coal and utility industries. 
 In separate statements, BP America, ConocoPhillips and Caterpillar said Tuesday that they were discontinuing membership in the lobbying group, which includes corporate giants like Alcoa and DuPont, and influential environmental organizations like the Nature Conservancy and the Environmental Defense Fund. 
 In a statement that played down the significance of the departures, the Climate Action Partnership said that ''all three companies have provided invaluable assistance, expertise and significant commitments of time and resources'' in seeking to advance climate legislation.
 In the proposed legislation, Congress granted free emission allowances to coal-burning utilities to forestall the possibility of huge increases in electric bills. Oil companies, by contrast, would have to pay for their emissions if the bill became law, most likely driving up the price of gasoline. (The legislation is stalled at the moment on Capitol Hill, though the Obama administration is trying to revive it.)
 James J. Mulva, the chief executive of ConocoPhillips, said Tuesday that ''House climate legislation and Senate proposals to date have disadvantaged the transportation sector and its consumers, left domestic refineries unfairly penalized versus international competition, and ignored the critical role that natural gas can play in reducing'' greenhouse gas emissions.
 BP echoed that view, with a spokesman, Ronnie Chappell, saying the company believes it can do more to influence the outcome of pending House and Senate legislation on its own. ''Our views are that there are segments of the economy that are largely untouched or aren't carrying as big a piece of the burden that they might,'' he said.
 Caterpillar said it would spend its energy on new technologies that could help to cut emissions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (56%); GASOLINE PRICES (52%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (93%); BP AMERICA INC (57%); ALCOA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (57%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (93%); AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (93%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); JAMES MULVA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



446 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: In a Challenge to Rangel, An Echo of His Rise

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
A 40-year-old challenger wages a grass-roots Democratic primary campaign against a popular Harlem congressman who has been entrenched for decades and for whom he once worked. The upstart says the incumbent, who has been dogged by a Congressional ethics investigation, is ''still living in the realm of his past accomplishments'' and that distractions have left the 15th District ''unrepresented.'' 
 Sound familiar? It would, perhaps painfully so, to Representative Charles B. Rangel. 
 In 1970, that same scenario ended with Mr. Rangel's stunning primary upset of Representative Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Now another upstart is borrowing a page from Mr. Rangel's playbook. 
 ''I have a lot of personal admiration for Mr. Rangel,'' said that challenger, Vincent Scott Morgan, a banker, who once worked for the congressman. ''I think, though, that he's grown more and more out of touch with the needs of the district. He's had a great run, but it's time for folks of this district to have an alternative.'' 
 Mr. Morgan faces a far steeper climb than his former boss did. Unlike Mr. Morgan, Mr. Rangel was an elected official -- a two-term state assemblyman -- when he challenged Mr. Powell, and he enjoyed the support of powerful Harlem elected officials -- support he still commands. 
 Mr. Rangel's campaign treasury is also much bigger. As of Dec. 31, Mr. Rangel had $770,000 on hand. Mr. Morgan reported $28,000 in receipts, including a $25,000 loan to his own campaign, but he said that since the reporting period had ended his total had swelled to about $50,000. 
 ''I do not think Charlie Rangel is vulnerable at all,'' said Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, the leader of the Manhattan Democratic Party, noting that as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Rangel had poured a lot of money into his district. ''The electorate of the greater Harlem community is very sophisticated,'' Mr. Wright said.
 Still, challengers across the country, encouraged by a populist groundswell, smell incumbent blood. 
 ''Everybody's vulnerable right now,'' said Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr., Mr. Wright's predecessor as county chairman. ''This is 1974 all over again, when incumbents were falling by the wayside. It wasn't about party, but that 'you've been here too long.' But they only caught the ones who were weak. Charlie's always there. People know him. But will it be closer than normal? Yes.''
 Mr. Rangel has rarely faced threats to his job security. He won re-election two years ago with nearly 90 percent of the vote. He has not faced a serious rival for the Democratic nomination since 1994, when he defeated City Councilman Adam Clayton Powell IV, the son of the former congressman, by nearly two to one.
 Another long shot, the Rev. Michael Faulkner, a former defensive lineman for the New York Jets and the founder of New Horizon Church, is seeking the Republican nomination. 
 Mr. Morgan was raised by a single mother in Chicago, and his father is a former Tennessee state senator who is in prison after being convicted on federal corruption charges. 
 Like Mr. Rangel, Mr. Morgan was a high school dropout who returned to school, earning a bachelor's degree in business from the University of Illinois and a master's in public administration from Columbia. He has lived in Harlem for a decade and is the chairman of the 125th Street Business Improvement District. 
 Being a banker might not seem like a political asset these days, but Mr. Morgan says that as regional manager of Community Reinvestment Act compliance for TD Bank, he steers investments to low- and middle-income neighborhoods.
 ''I'm a community development banker -- at the opposite extreme of who the Wall Street bankers are,'' he said.
 Mr. Morgan said he had always been attracted to politics and was between jobs when he volunteered to work for Mr. Rangel in 2000, becoming a full-time special assistant. At the time, his cousin, Harold E. Ford Jr., who is considering a challenge to Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand in the Democratic primary, was serving as a congressman from Tennessee. But they are apparently not close. Mr. Ford declined to say whom he supports in the Congressional race, and Mr. Morgan said he would wait to see who was running before he endorsed anyone for the Senate. 
 Mr. Morgan says the district is hurting economically: it has high unemployment, small businesses struggling to stay afloat and wide economic disparities among the racial and ethnic groups that make up the 15th Congressional District, which dips into Queens to include Rikers Island and a heavily industrial area and runs from the Upper West Side to Washington Heights. 
 Mr. Morgan and Mr. Rangel are ideological soul mates. ''He's a liberal lion, I'm not going to fault him on that,'' Mr. Morgan said. ''But for every person we could talk to who said he brought something back to the district, I'd give you two that said he didn't.'' 
 Mr. Rangel said he was disappointed that Mr. Morgan was challenging him. ''I assume he's a constituent, and I have to be concerned about what all my constituents say,'' he said. ''But I've also heard from constituents who say they need me there.'' 
 Given the years he has already put in, has Mr. Rangel contemplated retirement? ''Nope,'' Mr. Rangel said. 
 In an interview, Mr. Morgan did not mention the ethical cloud hanging over Mr. Rangel. ''It would be inappropriate,'' Mr. Morgan said, to discuss the ethics investigation of Mr. Rangel, because he knows about it only from news accounts.
 The closest Mr. Morgan came to addressing the issue was to say: ''With all the trouble he's had of late, his effectiveness as chairman is questionable.'' 
 Mr. Rangel has been under investigation by the House ethics committee since last year, when The New York Times reported that he rented four rent-stabilized apartments in Harlem for thousands of dollars per month below market value, despite a rule forbidding members to accept gifts worth more than $50. The committee is also looking into whether he improperly used his office to raise money for an academic center named for him and into unreported taxable income from a villa he owns in the Dominican Republic. 
 Mr. Rangel has repeatedly expressed confidence that he would be cleared by the investigation. 
 Mr. Morgan is still working full time, and his campaign operates on a shoestring. His mother fields calls from the news media, and his wife, Shola Lynch, a documentary filmmaker, shares an office with him on East 131st Street, where a photograph of Mr. Rangel sits on a bookcase. The couple have two young children and live on West 116th Street.
 Mr. Morgan was asked why he would not wait to run until Mr. Rangel leaves office. 
 ''I'm not that guy,'' he said. ''I'm the guy who believes the time is now, and I can make a better congressman. Waiting it out is what lesser folks do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VINCENT SCOTT MORGAN, Democratic candidate for Congress from the 15th District (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Democrats disagree on whether Representative Charles B. Rangel, who first was elected to Congress in 1970, would be vulnerable in a primary.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16)
 Vincent Scott Morgan says his district has high unemployment and big economic disparities among racial and ethnic groups.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ETHICS (72%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



447 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2207 words

HEADLINE: Try the Red: Napa Learns To Sell

BYLINE: By KATRINA HERON

DATELINE: NAPA, Calif. 

 BODY:
TOM DAVIES was driving last fall down Highway 29, the two-lane blacktop that serves as the Napa Valley's main drag, when he saw something that literally stopped him in his tracks. ''There was a sign on the side of the road that said, 'Cabernet Grapes for Sale,' '' he recalled, still incredulous that economic desperation had forced a Napa grower to hawk the region's hallowed fruit like a load of zucchini.
In the 30 years that Mr. Davies, the president of V. Sattui Winery and Vineyards, has worked in the Napa wine business, he has never seen a sight quite so unsettling. ''Grapes were left hanging on the vine last year,'' he said.
 This unusual predicament is not easily remedied at a time when vintners are awash in wine. Highly touted Napa releases in 2009 did not sell out, which means that inventory is backing up, which in turn means that much of the 2010 grape harvest will essentially have nowhere to go. Some winemakers have even debated skipping a vintage, which would amount to wiping a year off the calendar. 
 Not so long ago, it seemed a given that Napa wines would forever be immune from oversupply.
 But in 2009, sales of wines priced at $25 and above dropped 30 percent nationwide, according to Nielsen. While global wine sales increased, California wine shipments fell for the first time in 16 years. Searching for a way out of the crisis, many Napa wineries are increasingly pinning their hopes on direct-to-consumer sales. 
 The hottest topic in the business is the so-called ''retail room,'' meaning the combined forces of the winery tasting room, the now-ubiquitous wine club and, most of all, nascent e-commerce.
 This isn't exactly a new idea -- the winery tasting room became a profit center during the boom years, offering a preview of the possibilities. But on average, direct sales make up a meager 10 percent of local winery revenues, according to Brian Baker, a vice president at Chateau Montelena who presided over a recent symposium in Santa Rosa, Calif., on the subject. 
 For some in Napa, stepping up their retail business means the kind of sales pitch more often associated with a Rachael Ray recipe roundup than a boutique cabernet. Cakebread Cellars serves up a range of food-and-wine-pairing videos set to bouncy instrumentals. And two weeks after Lehman Brothers collapsed, Mr. Davies and a colleague started an online video series called ''The Wine Guys,'' in which they are not afraid to discuss the unique characteristics of petit verdot while unveiling special deals available exclusively on the V. Sattui Web site. 
 ''The concept of the 'winemaker's minute' is starting to catch on,'' Mr. Baker said. Chateau Montelena's site proudly features video snippets from the 2008 movie ''Bottle Shock.'' This loose retelling of how Chateau Montelena's chardonnay took first prize at a tasting in Paris in 1976 ''has created a kind of Disney effect for us,'' said Mr. Baker, adding that ''Shockers'' often make up 75 percent of weekend traffic to the winery. 
 If taking charge of marketing and distribution looks like a silver bullet, it also scares the pants off a good many vintners. It demands technological and social-networking prowess, for which this particular valley is not known. It's also expensive. But a new acronym has crept into the local lexicon: ERP, or Enterprise Resource Planning, which refers to integrated technology systems that let all the different parts of a business operation talk to one another. It's heady stuff for wineries just learning to analyze and deploy data on their customers and discovering that a Webmaster may be as important to their future as a winemaker. 
 Mike Grgich, the founder of Grgich Hills Estate, distrusted computers so intensely that for decades he insisted on handwritten accounting. No more. At 87, Mr. Grgich recently bellowed to his staff: ''We have to upgrade everything! Get me Facebook and Twitter!'' recalled Ivo Jeramaz, a vice president at the winery who is also Mr. Grgich's nephew. 
 ''We nearly fell off our chairs,'' Mr. Jeramaz said.
 Those who attended the symposium on direct-to-consumer sales listened in rapt attention to a keynote speech on Gen Y -- also known as the millennials. 
 Rick Bakas, a panelist at the symposium, joined St. Supery winery last August with a title heretofore unknown in the valley: director of social media.
 St. Supery, which produces 100,000 cases a year, now has the requisite Facebook fan page, in addition to which Mr. Bakas has inaugurated Napa cabernet and pan-California virtual wine tastings via Twitter. 
 ''Where wineries need to focus most is on signing up new wine club members through social media,'' he said, rather than rely on cementing relationships with tourists who drive up to the tasting room.
 Mr. Baker estimated that only about 20 percent of Napa wineries are on Facebook so far. Mr. Bakas, who last worked at a Web start-up that folded, said his spiel on new marketing techniques still meets with bewilderment and reticence in some quarters. ''Wineries will say they say they can't afford to learn about social media,'' he said. ''I tell them they can't afford not to, and the economy is pushing the reluctant ones whether they want to or not.''
 In short, Napa's winemakers are in the throes of a classic market disruption. They can't go backward, and the way forward is still largely unknown. 
 The only certainty is that they can't stay where they are. 
 ''When I talk to my local colleagues, they try to deny what's happening at first,'' Mr. Jeramaz said. ''Then it comes out that their sales are down 30, 40, maybe even 50 percent.'' At Grgich, sales are off about a third. ''In 2009, 20,000 cases went unsold,'' he said. With sales in free-fall, the wholesalers who distribute wines to restaurants and retail stores have demanded -- and received -- price cuts. 
 ''It's an understatement to say it's a buyers' market, even for a smaller distributor like me,'' said Lou Bock, whose wholesaler business is based in San Francisco. ''The guys in Napa are shellshocked.'' 
 ''Wineries that need to move inventory have gotten desperate,'' said Peter Mondavi Jr., president of Charles Krug Winery. Like a few other major, time-honored brands with ample lower-priced offerings, Krug has been shielded to date from such dire scenarios.
 For the less fortunate, haggling from wholesalers is merely insult added to continuing injury: Recent consolidation in the distribution industry has left many wineries believing they're getting the bum's rush. Distributors, they say, pay attention only to their biggest accounts, while small independent wineries, which predominate in Napa Valley, have to figure out ways to promote themselves. 
 But even wineries with good distributor rapport need to recognize that times are changing, Mr. Mondavi said. ''Direct-to-consumer sales are becoming more critical,'' he said. ''We want to grow that segment of our business.''
 This may seem a no-brainer for Napa winemakers in an era when many industries are cutting out the middleman and going straight to the end user. It's a bit more complicated than that, thanks to a long history of state-mandated prohibitions on direct shipping. According to Steve Gross, director of state relations for the Wine Institute, an industry trade group, 38 states and counting have dropped their shipping embargoes, but wineries typically still need a separate license from each state where they do business. 
 Distributors, meanwhile, will continue to control a major portion of the wine market, given that only 10 states currently allow a winery to ship directly to their retail outlets and restaurants. 
 For customers, the potential advantages of the drive toward direct sales include better prices, more varied selection and long-term personalized service. For the wineries, the immediate lure is the chance for a bigger bite of the profits. 
 ''Let's say our chardonnay's suggested retail for a one-bottle purchase is $60,'' Mr. Jeramaz said. ''When we sell through a distributor, we give them a steep discount -- we only get $30 for that bottle. If we give the customer a 20 percent discount, it's a better deal for them and for us.''
 But the notion of offering discounts at the winery is still radical in much of Napa. At many tasting rooms, one feels warmly welcomed into a curious time warp, where tasting fees and wine prices are the same as (and sometimes higher than) they were before. On a recent Saturday, Stag's Leap Wine Cellars was selling its 2006 merlot for $45. Earlier in the week, the same bottle had been spotted on the shelves of a couple of Target stores in the Bay Area priced at $31.99.
 For Michael Haley, a grape grower and aspiring local politician, Napa's vaunted prices -- nobody batted an eye at bottles costing $100 and up -- are themselves a major part of the challenge. ''For a good while now, Napa's specialty has been high-end wine, and that business has fallen off a cliff,'' he said. ''We're talking here about a major case of denial.''
 In fairness, not all of Napa's wineries went to the last decade's velvet-rope party. At Smith-Madrone Winery, in the hills above the town of St. Helena, the brothers Stuart and Charles Smith produce 1,000 cases of wine a year from their own grapes and sell them for $30 to $45. 
 Devoutly untrendy -- Charles Smith's desk in the wine shed doubles as the tasting counter -- the Smiths came to feel like an anachronism in recent years. ''We got a hard time from other vintners,'' Stuart Smith recalled. ''They said, 'Why don't you raise your prices? You make everybody else look bad.' ''
 Today, the Smiths appear to be ahead of the curve, beneficiaries of both their moderate prices and their early decision to tend to their customer list with the same care they lavish on their vines. This year is going to be every bit as bad as 2009, Stuart Smith said, ''and we would be in very tough shape if it wasn't for our on-site and Internet sales.'' He added that Smith-Madrone never placed undue faith in its distributors, three of which went out of business last year. 
 Though they anticipated the pitfalls of the traditional sales channel, the Smiths along with a good number of their brethren are feeling pinched by another legacy system, this one home-grown. The trouble is that, in the eyes of Napa County's body politic, not all wineries are created equal.
 At issue is an increasingly controversial piece of red tape known as the Winery Definition Ordinance. Enacted in 1990, it piggybacked onto a use-permit system set up in 1974, a date that quickly became the dividing line between the haves and the have-nots. Among other things, the ordinance dictates the number of guests a tasting room can admit in a day -- and whether they can just show up or need to make an appointment -- what kinds of memorabilia the wineries can sell and what kinds of events they can hold. 
 Generally speaking, elder-statesman wineries like Charles Krug, Sutter Home and Beringer, along with historic-winery descendants like Rubicon Estate, are exempt from the strictures. (Not always, though: some years back, Francis Ford Coppola was ordered to remove an illegitimate espresso cart from the Rubicon terrace.) 
 ''What we have created, in effect, is class warfare,'' said Mr. Haley, who is running for a spot on the Napa County Board of Supervisors with a pledge to overhaul the regulations and let a thousand marketing incentives bloom. New pricing structures, delivery systems and technology are crucial, Mr. Haley said, but they can't help Napa compete in the 21st century ''if we hang on to our anticompetitive habits.'' 
 Dario Sattui, who started his wine business in 1975 with borrowed money and a VW bus for a bed, offers a glimpse of what life for Napa's new guard may look like were freer trade the norm.
 His great-grandfather, Vittorio, made wine and sold it out of a storefront in downtown San Francisco. Following in his footsteps, Dario Sattui created a line of mostly inexpensive wines for sale directly to consumers. No wholesaler or retailer has ever gotten hold of a V. Sattui label. 
 Mr. Sattui's marketing acumen extended to securing commercial zoning for his property, a loophole that makes V. Sattui one of just two Napa wineries (the other is Krug) allowed to host weddings. V. Sattui is the friend-of-the-people winery, the Everyman. The tasting room, where $5 buys a ''classic'' tasting, also sells Coke and Red Bull, and an adjacent deli gives the Dean & Deluca outpost across the road a run for its money.
 If Napa's high-minded denizens consider Mr. Sattui's winery garish, they are in awe of his prescient direct-sales approach. V. Sattui's wine clubs have 40,000 active members, and today about 35 percent of its business is done via mail order or on the Internet, with the balance handled on site. 
 Mr. Sattui instigated the legal challenge to the distributors' lock on wine shipments that culminated in a 2005 United States Supreme Court ruling paving the way for wineries to sell directly to out-of-state consumers. Like Mr. Bakas, his goal now is to get Napa with the program, using his own experience as a guide. ''Making wine -- that's the easy part,'' Mr. Sattui said. ''It's selling it that's hard.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/ THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
 ROUTE TO PROFITS: Wines lined up for tasting at V. Sattui Winery, above. Castello di Amorosa winery on Highway 29, below right. Some wines discounted at Grgich Hills Estate, below left. Bottom, Peter Mondavi Jr. of Charles Krug draws a wine sample, and a farmstead building at Nickel & Nickel winery.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINERIES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (75%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); BEVERAGE PRICES (75%); SHIPMENTS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); INTERNET VIDEO (63%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (62%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



448 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: In Des Moines, Downtown Revival Is a Team Effort

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- It took Wellmark Blue Cross and Blue Shield only about a year in 2007 to locate, assemble and buy a 6.6-acre parcel of land from nine owners for its new headquarters in this city's downtown. 
 Next December, after 30 months of construction at a cost of $250 million, Wellmark is scheduled to complete the 600,000-square-foot five-story building, which will occupy three blocks of Grand Avenue and anchor a growing downtown office and entertainment district known as the Western Gateway. If that schedule is met, the project will have taken roughly four years from start to finish. 
 By the standards of most downtown construction -- where land assembly alone can span half a decade or more -- that is unusually fast, developers say. But Wellmark's speedy pace is typical of recent commercial, residential and retail development in Des Moines, where public and private cooperation has produced a robust urban landscape matched by few cities its size. 
 ''We surveyed our employees and they wanted to be downtown,'' said David N. Southwell, the chief financial officer of Wellmark, which insures 2.2 million people in Iowa and South Dakota. ''We know downtown and like it. There's been a keen interest by city leaders to make downtown attractive. Downtown 13 years ago, when I got here, looked nothing like it does today.''
 Before the recent development, the western approach to the city was a hodgepodge of vacant lots, repair shops and abandoned car dealerships. 
 Unemployment in the Des Moines area has hovered around 6.5 percent, among the lowest jobless rates for a metropolitan area, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. There are some 75,000 jobs in downtown Des Moines, according to city statistics, 20,000 more than in the 1990s. 
 This year, with the completion of the Wellmark headquarters and several other projects, Des Moines will add almost 700,000 square feet of downtown office space. Developers are expected to complete 175 housing units.
 Des Moines added 3.8 million square feet of downtown office space in the last decade, city officials said, a 45 percent increase that brought the downtown total to 12.3 million square feet. The Class A vacancy rate last year was 4.5 percent. The city has 4,900 housing units downtown, 1,900 more than in 2000, and a 64 percent increase.
 The formula for Des Moines's economic strength in the face of the recession is multifaceted, business and elected leaders said. The city is Iowa's capital and home to roughly 200,000 people, many of whom work for large and stable employers like Drake University, Nationwide Mutual Insurance, Wells Fargo and several agriculture companies, among them Pioneer Hi-Bred International a unit of DuPont that has 6,000 workers in the Des Moines region.
 Farmers are doing well, and a state decision in the 1980s to turn Iowa into a clean energy production center has made it the nation's largest producer of biofuels, according to the Department of Energy, and the second-largest generator of electricity from wind power, according to the American Wind Energy Association. 
 One more factor, urban specialists said, is the collaboration Des Moines has built into its governing practices to avoid civic wars that can delay projects. Moreover, virtually all of the city's new private projects, including the Wellmark building, were assisted by city tax funds. Richard A. Clark, the city manager, said Des Moines had invested an average of nearly $2 million annually in public dollars over the last several decades to help businesses assemble parcels of land, improve streets, build parking structures and other infrastructure. The public money has leveraged over $2 billion in private investment downtown since the 1990s, he said.
 Des Moines even spends $250,000 in tax revenue annually to support public art. Its hotel-motel tax contributes $740,000 annually to a $2.45 million regional account that the city shares with seven suburbs to support the zoo, a civic center, a botanical garden, a symphony and other cultural institutions. 
 Christopher B. Leinberger, a professor of real estate at the University of Michigan, said Des Moines was one of a growing number of cities that recognize the potential of downtown development, as well as the urgency of changing economic and political strategies to encourage it. Mr. Leinberger said that Des Moines, like Salt Lake City, Denver, Dallas, Seattle and Chicago, was adopting development plans based on persuading residents and employers to cluster homes, jobs, schools and stores rather than spreading them out. 
 Mr. Leinberger also said that Des Moines was able to find a nonpartisan formula for making decisions on taxes, infrastructure, parks and housing that support downtown construction. ''Des Moines is one of those places that recognized that to pull off being a special place they can be proud of, people have to work together,'' Mr. Leinberger said.
 The results are especially evident along the broad boulevards and narrower streets that make up the Western Gateway and its adjacent neighborhoods. Two years ago, Nationwide completed a $279 million, 1.2 million-square-foot campus on Locust Street where 4,000 people work. A block away is the 34,000-square-foot, $11.4 million Pappajohn Education Center, a branch of the University of Iowa that was completed in 2006. The Des Moines Public Library on Grand Avenue, designed by the British architect David Chipperfield, spans 110,000 square feet and cost $32.3 million. 
 At the center of the Western Gateway is a 4.4-acre public park and sculpture garden, with 24 works by Ugo Rondinone, Louise Bourgeois and Deborah Butterfield, among others. The sculptures, valued at some $40 million, were a gift from John and Mary Pappajohn, two local art collectors and benefactors. Jeff Fleming, the director of the Des Moines Art Center, played a central role in grouping the sculptures into ''rooms'' flanked by an undulating landscape of berms, trees, walkways and grass that was paid for by the city and private donors.
 Among the businesses that have settled near the sculpture park is the Des Moines Social Club, a combination art gallery, theater, bar and education center that has enlivened the city's night life. It is run by Zachary Mannheimer, a theater producer and director from New York who moved to Des Moines after visiting some 20 cities to find a building suitable for his multifaceted entertainment concept. Mr. Mannheimer leases a 30,000-square-foot building on Locust Street that was built in 1919 and operated as a Cadillac dealership. He is trying to raise $4 million to buy and renovate the structure. ''We serve as a public house for those who have explored the park and then wish to discuss the work,'' Mr. Mannheimer said. 
 Like almost everything else connected to downtown construction, the park displaying the Pappajohns' donation was built with unusual speed, about two and a half years from conception to completion. ''It's a wonderful example of what this city can do,'' said Mr. Southwell, the Wellmark executive. ''The park has been a real magnet. It's much more popular than what people originally thought it might be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Wellmark Blue Cross and Blue Shield building, above, will occupy three blocks. Zachary Mannheimer, left, operates the Des Moines Social Club, an art gallery, theater and bar. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW HOLST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); CITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); STATISTICS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

COMPANY: WELLMARK INC (94%); WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); NATIONWIDE MUTUAL INSURANCE CO (60%); PIONEER HI-BRED MAGYARORSZAG VETOMAGTERMELO ES FORGALMAZO RT (50%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (60%); SIC0181 ORNAMENTAL FLORICULTURE & NURSERY PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (95%) IOWA, USA (95%); MANNHEIM, GERMANY (57%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



449 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Dream of Gaining Senate Control Faces Significant Hurdles

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The retirement of Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana has raised Republicans' hopes of capturing a significant number of Democratic Senate seats in November. Some Republicans and analysts are even suggesting that the party might take control of the Senate. 
 In theory, at least, that is possible, given the number of Democratic retirements, soaring public disillusionment with Congress and an unemployment rate that seems unlikely to diminish appreciably before November. 
 But a review of the political map suggests how daunting the Republican task would be, requiring both a continuing barrage of bad luck for Democrats and nothing short of a flawless performance by the Republican Party.
 ''As the map stands now, if we run the table of competitive races, we can get there,'' said Rob Jesmer, the executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee. ''We hope to get a few more races in play over the next couple months, which would give us some margin for error.''
 Democrats control the Senate 59 to 41. Because Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. casts the tie-breaking vote if the Senate is split 50-50, Republicans would need to pick up 10 seats to gain control.
 For argument's sake, factor in the possibility that Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a Connecticut independent whom Democrats have counted as one of their own, switches his party affiliation if Republicans are on the verge of taking control, a move that Democrats do not rule out. 
 Then Republicans would have to win every one of the eight Democratic-held seats viewed as vulnerable -- in Arkansas, Colorado, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Nevada, North Dakota and Pennsylvania.
 Republicans can probably put North Dakota in the bank today, after Senator Byron L. Dorgan, a Democrat, decided not to seek re-election. Republicans also appear to be in strong shape in Delaware, where Mr. Biden's son Joseph R. Biden III, known as Beau, decided not to run, yielding the stage to Representative Michael N. Castle.
 Mr. Bayh's retirement makes Republicans justifiably comfortable about their prospects of taking back a state that tilts Republican. 
 An open seat in Illinois means Republicans have a good shot at winning the Senate seat once held by President Obama. In Colorado, where Ken Salazar gave up his Senate seat to become interior secretary, Republicans are hopeful about toppling the appointed senator, Michael Bennet.
 Republicans say they have a strong chance of winning in Pennsylvania, where Senator Arlen Specter, who changed his party registration to become a Democrat, is wheezing as he faces a strong primary challenge from the left. And two Democratic senators are clearly in trouble: Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas and the majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, though a self-identified Tea Party candidate could divide the anti-Reid vote.
 If Republicans win all those races, that would put them one seat away from control. But they are not only playing offense. There are seven open seats that were held by Republicans, including four that appear highly competitive: in Kentucky, Missouri, New Hampshire and Ohio. 
 ''We feel we're going to pick up states on their side of the ledger, and that is going to make it harder for them,'' said J. B. Poersch, executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
 In Kentucky, the Republicans' prospects in the general election have been threatened by a primary battle. Rand Paul, who has the support of the Tea Party, is running strong against Trey Grayson, the secretary of state; Republicans think Mr. Paul could easily win a Republican primary but stumble in a general election.
 In Missouri, Democrats said the Republican candidate -- Roy Blunt, a former Republican whip in Congress -- would have trouble overcoming his past association with President George W. Bush. Republicans are less worried, pointing out that Senator John McCain of Arizona, the party's presidential nominee in 2008, squeaked out a victory in Missouri over Mr. Obama.
 Assuming that Republicans held on to all seven of the open seats and picked up all eight held by vulnerable Democrats, they would still need to pick up one Democratic seat in decidedly less competitive races in California, Connecticut, New York, Washington and Wisconsin. 
 But the old rule of politics is you can't beat somebody with nobody. And so far, Republicans are struggling to find top-tier candidates in New York, Washington and Wisconsin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (56%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (89%); EVAN BAYH (78%); JOE LIEBERMAN (78%); KEN SALAZAR (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); BYRON DORGAN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%); MICHAEL BENNET (58%); MICHAEL N CASTLE (58%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



450 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DIPLOMATIC MEMO; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Iran Policy Now More in Sync With Clinton's Views

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: JIDDA, Saudi Arabia 

 BODY:
If Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton seemed especially fired up in criticizing Iran during her visit to the Persian Gulf this week, there was good reason for it: President Obama's Iran policy is beginning to look a lot like candidate Clinton's Iran policy.
 With the administration's efforts to reach out to Iran having failed to produce a response, it is shifting to a more confrontational strategy that is tailor-made for Mrs. Clinton, a longtime skeptic of the value of engaging with Tehran. This, after all, is the woman who once warned that if she were president and Iran attacked Israel, the United States would ''totally obliterate'' Iran. 
 As the nation's chief diplomat, Mrs. Clinton avoids that kind of excess in her statements. But only just. She declared on this trip that Iran was on its way to becoming a military dictatorship, that Iran's religious and political leaders should seize back the reins of power from the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps and that Iran could ignite a nuclear arms race in the Middle East.
 ''You have to ask yourself, 'Why are they doing this?' '' Mrs. Clinton said Tuesday to students at a women's college here, in a bare-knuckles tone that she could have used at a campaign rally in Pennsylvania.
 It is a measure of how much things have changed that Mr. Obama, who clashed repeatedly with Mrs. Clinton about how to deal with Iran during the campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination, has assigned her to drum up international support for a package of United Nations sanctions against Iran.
 She has accepted the task with relish. Mrs. Clinton returned to the theme of the Revolutionary Guards often during the trip, twice briefing reporters in the back of her plane about it.
 The administration's concerns are shared. On Tuesday, Russia joined the United States and France in bluntly questioning Iran's ultimate intentions in enriching uranium.
 The three nations have signed a letter to the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear watchdog, saying that Iran's uranium enrichment and its failure to notify the agency beforehand were ''wholly unjustified, contrary to U.N. Security Council resolutions, and represent a further step toward a capability to produce highly enriched uranium.'' 
 The letter, dated Feb. 12 and obtained from diplomatic officials in Washington, said that if ''Iran goes forward with this escalation, it would raise new concerns about Iran's nuclear intentions.''
 A senior administration official said that the White House was not only comfortable with what Mrs. Clinton was saying about Iran, but was ''grateful for her leadership on this in the region and at home.''
 Certainly, Mrs. Clinton's focus on the role of the Revolutionary Guards reflects the White House's strategy. Officials there have decided to pursue new sanctions that would go after assets owned by the Guards because they are ripe targets -- both the shadowy manager of Iran's nuclear program and the brute force behind the crackdown on antigovernment protesters after the disputed presidential election in June.
 White House officials dispute the idea that Mr. Obama's effort at engaging Iran has failed. They say it has left Iran isolated abroad, racked by political divisions at home and facing a loss of influence, as President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's claims to legitimacy as a regional leader have rung hollow.
 These are the arguments for engagement that Mrs. Clinton laid out last February on her first overseas trip as secretary of state.
 ''Not everybody will unclench their fist,'' she said then to reporters in South Korea, ''but the message of our extended hand has an impact. When regimes decide that they don't want to unclench their fist, I think that puts us in a stronger position. A lot of international diplomacy is a head game.'' 
 The following month brought a blunt reminder of Mrs. Clinton's pessimism about winning over Iran: a State Department spokesman reported that she had told the foreign minister of the United Arab Emirates that Iran was unlikely to respond to Mr. Obama's diplomatic overtures.
 Even now, Mrs. Clinton says, the door is open to engagement. But after she declared that the Revolutionary Guards had usurped much of the political, economic and military power in Iran, it is not clear who she thinks would be on the other end of the line in Tehran.
 The evolution from engagement to pressure benefits Mrs. Clinton. Early in the administration, the State Department seemed eclipsed by the White House in formulating Iran policy, a perception underscored when one of the senior Iran policy makers, Dennis B. Ross, decamped from the department for a job on the National Security Council.
 The White House handled Mr. Obama's early gestures to Iran, like his videotaped New Year's greeting to the Iranian people. Letters to Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, went out over the president's signature.
 But now Iran policy has shifted from bold gestures to the grinding diplomacy of drafting a Security Council sanctions resolution. That is the State Department's forte. William J. Burns, a low-key diplomat who is the under secretary of state for political affairs, is a central player in that effort, shuttling among capitals to hash out acceptable language.
 Mrs. Clinton is working to persuade allies and others that the world now needs to confront Iran. Speaking to the women at the Saudi college, she offered a lengthy indictment of Iran, not sparing them a technical discussion of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and the International Atomic Energy Agency.
 ''Iran has threatened other countries,'' she said. ''Iran has funded terrorists who have launched attacks within other countries. Iran is the largest supporter of terrorism in the world today.''
 The consequences of a nuclear Iran, Mrs. Clinton said, would be disastrous. She said that leaders in other Middle Eastern countries would say, ''If Iran has a nuclear weapon, I better get one, too, to protect my people.'' 
 She added, ''Then you have a nuclear arms race in the region; then you have all kinds of opportunities for problems that could be quite dangerous.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Rodham Clinton signed autographs on Tuesday at Dar Al-Hekma College in Jidda. (PHOTOGRAPH SUSAN BAAGHIL/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); ARMS RACE (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); RELIGION (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (88%); ISRAEL (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN (78%); FRANCE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



451 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: When Cell Doors Won't Close

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
As of Tuesday afternoon, New York State had about 5,000 empty beds in its 67 prisons. Even if the state weren't flat broke, this would be an expensive proposition. Just turning on the lights in the morning costs money. Correction officers must be on duty 24 hours a day, year round, even when there are only a handful of inmates to watch.
 Take, for example, three prisons in the northern reaches of the state, near the Canadian border. In a count taken Dec. 31, a prison in Lyon Mountain had 91 employees and 135 inmates. The Ogdensburg Correctional Facility had 287 employees and 474 inmates. The minimum security portion of a complex in Red Creek had a staff of 67 for a grand total of 71 inmates. 
 It's not that the prisons are overstaffed, it's just that they're under-prisonered.
 New York has 13,000 fewer inmates today than it did in 1999, when the prison population was at its peak. The state projects that a year from now, the number will go down by an additional 1,000. Crime has been dropping, and nonviolent offenders are spending less time behind bars. 
 But closing prisons is even harder than closing hospitals. (About a quarter of the state's hospital beds were chronically empty when a special commission on health care issued a report in 2006.) 
 The prison industry is the foundation of local economies in many parts of the state. And for years, the correctional facilities spread throughout the vast rural stretches of the state helped protect Republican legislative districts from dwindling populations -- the inmates are counted as permanent residents when maps are drawn for the Senate and the Assembly. 
 Yet the prisons survive changes in the political weather.
 A little more than two years ago, the governor announced that he would close four unnecessary prisons. But that governor's name was Eliot Spitzer. 
 At the time, Republicans controlled the State Senate, and their majority leader was hailed in a rally outside the Capitol by correction officers who chanted, ''Joe Bruno! Joe Bruno!''
 Mr. Bruno has since moved on, resigning suddenly one day, and then slowly being turned on a prosecutor's spit for using his Senate powers to stoke his private business interests. Mr. Spitzer left even more quickly in a prostitution scandal. 
 With his departure, the state effectively suspended its efforts to shutter prisons. Right after David A. Paterson became governor, he agreed with the Legislature to spend $34 million to keep open the four prisons that Mr. Spitzer had wanted to close. The Paterson administration did close three prison camps, but spared one in a district represented by a Democrat.
 Now the Democrats control the Senate by a single vote, giving every Democratic senator tremendous negotiating power. As a way to save $46 million, the governor has proposed closing four prisons, including the one in Ogdensburg, which is represented by a Democratic senator, Darrel J. Aubertine. 
 On his Web site, Mr. Aubertine made it clear that he did not think any of the four should be closed, especially the one in Ogdensburg.
 ''The devastating negative economic impact to these communities will outweigh any proposed savings,'' Mr. Aubertine said. 
 BOTH Mr. Aubertine and the president of the union representing the state correction officers dispute the counts taken by the Department of Correctional Services, saying that there are not enough beds in the system now to accommodate all the inmates without ''double bunking.'' The union has made television and radio ads that warn of dire consequences to public safety if prisons are closed and claim that the department's administration is bloated. But Brian Fischer, the correction commissioner, said that most inmates are in single cells or dormitories, and that there is plenty of room. 
 Even though the state expects that no one will lose a job if some prisons are closed -- there's enough attrition so that it would be possible for any employee to find a job through a transfer -- there will be major upheavals in the prison towns. The families of prison employees go to the schools, pay taxes and keep their communities humming. 
 But for a state facing billions in deficits for years to come, even the considerable power of the prison industry might not outweigh these stark numbers. In the four prisons that the governor has proposed closing, there are 547 employees and 851 inmates. That's one state employee for every 1.5 prisoners. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); CLOSINGS (75%); HEALTH CARE (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (69%); SEX SCANDALS (50%); SCANDALS (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (78%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



452 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Federal Reserve Officials, Often Tight-Lipped, Openly Voice Deficit Concerns

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Wading deeply into fiscal policy is not normally the domain of the Federal Reserve, but several central bank officials have begun speaking out in forceful terms about the dangers of the expanding deficit.
 Though only a minority so far, the officials are warning that a failure to bring the budget under control could lead to a dangerous spiral of inflation. Worries about the possible long-term effects of the deficit have galvanized political debate in recent days, culminating in President Obama's decision to create a bipartisan commission to tame the nation's debt.
 The comments by Fed officials reflect, in part, a concern about the central bank's ability to maintain its political independence over the long term, a concern shared by the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. Next week, Mr. Bernanke is set to deliver the Fed's semiannual monetary report to Congress, and economists will be watching closely to see if he too says anything about the debt and the deficit. 
 Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City since 1991 and the longest-serving of the 12 Fed bank presidents, warned on Tuesday that in the worst case, the Fed could face pressure to inflate the nation's way out of its indebtedness. 
 ''It seems inevitable that a government turns to its central bank to bridge budget shortfalls, with the result being too-rapid money creation and eventually, not immediately, high inflation,'' he said at a policy forum here, sponsored by the Peterson-Pew Commission on Budget Reform. ''Such outcomes require either a cooperative central bank or an infringement on its independence.'' 
 Last Wednesday, the Dallas Fed president, Richard W. Fisher, said that interest rates on Treasury securities had been kept unnaturally low by the willingness of the Chinese to buy American debt and by shaky European economies, like Greece's.
 ''We cannot count forever on the largess or the misfortune of others to mask our own imbalances here at home -- for fiscal profligacy in Washington today hinders our ability to address fiscal challenges tomorrow,'' Mr. Fisher told the World Affairs Council of Dallas-Fort Worth.
 The Fed has just two main responsibilities -- keeping inflation low and promoting maximum employment -- but balancing them is perhaps its greatest challenge. With unemployment at 9.7 percent, few expect the Fed to start raising interest rates for at least several months. 
 For now, Mr. Bernanke, who was granted a second four-year term last month after a contentious Senate debate, has shown little appetite for applying brakes on the economy, though he has outlined a strategy for the Fed to gradually reduce the size of its balance sheet, in part to reassure the markets that he is mindful of the threat of inflation.
 Mr. Hoenig was the sole dissenter last month when the Fed's key policy-making body, the Federal Open Market Committee, voted to keep short-term interest rates near zero, where they have been since December 2008. Specifically, Mr. Hoenig objected to the panel's statement that ''exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period'' were still warranted.
 Mr. Hoenig is known for his wariness of inflation, so his dissent was not entirely a surprise. But other members of the committee, while using more cautious language, appear to share at least some of his concerns. 
 In a speech last month in Arlington, Va., the Fed's vice chairman, Donald L. Kohn, said ''the deficit is on track to remain quite large even as the economy recovers, pushing up the ratio of federal debt to gross domestic product substantially.''
 Mr. Kohn added: ''Unless the trajectory is changed, the competition for savings between the government, on the one hand, and households and businesses, on the other, could be significant as households and businesses begin to borrow and spend in the recovery, putting upward pressure on interest rates.'' 
 And James Bullard, president of the St. Louis Fed, said in an interview last week that it made sense for the Fed to think about withdrawing from what he called its ''unprecedented monetary policy'' since 2008: the combination of near-zero interest rates and huge purchases of mortgage-backed securities and Treasury securities. 
 The expansion of the balance sheet helped drive down long-term interest rates and support economic recovery. But Mr. Bullard said the idea that ''the worst part of the crisis is over, so maybe it's time to start adjusting'' was sensible, adding, ''I'm sympathetic to that argument.'' 
 Not all of the Fed's leaders are preoccupied about the prospect of inflation; some consider it remote and are more focused on the weak job market. 
 ''I do think the news is mostly good on the inflation front, although the need for careful policy choices is even more critical than usual,'' Narayana R. Kocherlakota said Tuesday in his first speech as president of the Minneapolis Fed.
 Mr. Kocherlakota told the Minnesota Bankers Association, in St. Paul, that the decline in gross domestic product during any recession was not felt evenly across the population. 
 ''Some workers -- those who lose their jobs -- suffer much bigger falls in income,'' he said. ''For this reason, many macroeconomists now believe that the true cost of a recession is not the fall in G.D.P. per se, but the associated increase in the risk of people becoming, and staying, unemployed.'' 
 Mr. Kocherlakota noted that employment was slow to recover after the last two recessions, in 1990-91 and in 2001, and that unemployment -- still at its highest level since the early 1980s -- has leveled off only because fewer employees are getting laid off or quitting. 
 ''To get a true expansion in employment and in the economy, the hiring rate has to pick up -- and we have yet to see evidence that it will do so in the immediate future,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas M. Hoenig, left, and Narayana R. Kocherlakota, both Fed bank presidents, have different views on inflation.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TAMI CHAPPELL/REUTERS
 CRAIG LASSIG/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); INTEREST RATES (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (86%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



453 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Women Are Seeking Greater Political Influence

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND and RIYADH MOHAMMED

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
For women in Iraq, the coming national elections offer both a promise and a reminder of the difficulty of change in this male-dominated culture. 
 The Constitution calls for at least 25 percent of Parliament's seats to go to women. But the first women elected in 2005 have had little effect, analysts and women who are members of Parliament say. 
 Now, as the campaign begins for the country's second post-invasion parliamentary vote, on March 7, some women say a new female political class is starting to emerge. In one sign of this development, 12 women from outside the political system have formed their own party, with a platform built on women's rights and a jobs program for Iraq's more than 700,000 widows. 
 ''People can see we are independent and we are not working for any party in Iraq,'' said Jenan Mubark, who organized the slate because, she said, women were often marginalized within parties. ''They can see we just want to empower Iraqi women in the educational and economic sectors. It's a very wide range of objectives, but I believe that Iraqi women need it.'' 
 Iraqi women have higher rates of poverty and unemployment than men, and lower levels of education.
 Ms. Mubark manages a construction company and runs the Iraqi Center for Women's Rehabilitation and Employment, a nongovernmental organization that she said gave her a base of support, both male and female. In her walkup office in central Baghdad, she described her agenda in language that has become familiar to political campaigns around the world. ''This,'' she said, ''is the first step for change in our country.'' 
 Women have not been spared the violence of the electoral process. Last week, gunmen near Mosul killed Suha Abed Allah, a veterinarian running as a member of a multisectarian alliance. 
 ''Everything is possible,'' said Safia Taleb al-Souhail, a member of Parliament whose father was killed after plotting a coup against Saddam Hussein, and who is now seeking re-election. ''But I believe women have more space than four years ago, and the ability to go from place to place.''
 After the fall of Mr. Hussein in 2003, when women's groups called for a quota in Parliament -- originally seeking 40 percent of seats -- they expected support from the United States, Ms. Souhail said. But American officials put other priorities ahead of women's rights, Ms. Souhail and others said. ''We took pictures with the president and the secretary of state,'' she said. ''This is not support. Support is letting the leaders know there also female leaders.''
 American officials have said they did support the inclusion of women in the new government. 
 Like Ms. Mubark's list, Ms. Souhail is running on a moderate, democratic platform. Both oppose an article in the Constitution requiring the creation of legislation that would give religious leaders partial authority over domestic matters, including marriage, divorce and inheritance. After opposition from women's groups, the planned legislation was suspended, but religious parties hope to pass it. 
 For Ms. Souhail, the suspension was a major success, as was establishing the quota for women in Parliament. But she said that in other areas, the impact of women had been disappointing. 
 ''We are seeing women in soft ministries,'' she said. ''Even those women who are chosen by certain political parties can't give their positions independently, they have to bow to a leader. We want to have a woman who is a leader herself.''
 She added: ''I'm not saying we didn't improve. We improved by seeing women participate in the political process. And we have learned a lot for the last four years. Many women who did not know anything about political expression now can really teach.''
 Tanya T. Gilly, a member of Parliament from the heavily Kurdish north, will not be part of that next wave. She has decided not to seek re-election, citing a desire to spend more time with her children. 
 She said that many of her peers, male and female, accused her of trying to impose Western values on Iraqi society. 
 ''One misconception is that we want some kind of liberal movement for women,'' she said, adding that she had once received a death threat from another female lawmaker. 
 ''I have literally been told, 'Why don't you stay at home and learn how to cook and find yourself a husband,' '' said Ms. Gilly, who is married. ''These are colleagues who are members of the same party, who supposedly embody the same values that the party values.'' 
 She said that young women often avoided politics for fear of harming their reputations. ''As a woman politician I should not have a problem having a meeting with all men, or a one-on-one meeting with a man,'' she said. ''But some people think that's not the right thing, because Islamically you're not supposed to have a woman and a man sitting in a room together unless they're married.'' 
 Shatha al-Musawi, an independent member of Parliament, said she would not seek re-election because of the power exerted by party leaders over their membership, which often meant that women were excluded from decision-making sessions. ''I am not ready to lie to people claiming that we have a democracy,'' she said. 
 ''Iraqi women in the Parliament are more serious, more devoted, more present and more interactive than men with the public issues,'' she said. 
 Nonetheless, she said she did not think the solution was an all-woman party. ''Politics is about ideas, principles and theories,'' she said. ''These issues can't be tackled by a gender approach only.''
 She added, ''I don't think this is the right time to focus on women's issues.''
 More than 6,500 candidates are running for 325 seats. In a campaign that has already been stirred by sectarianism, Ms. Mubark has joined the Iraq Unity Alliance, a secular, cross-sectarian coalition. She said the parties in the alliance had promised to support her on women's issues. 
 But even so, the effect that women like Ms. Mubark can have remains marginal, said Haider al-Musawi, a political analyst.
 ''In comparison with other regional countries, Iraq is formally advanced, with many female M.P.'s and ministers,'' he said. ''But this is only a false bright image. In reality, Iraq is left behind other countries.'' 
 Ms. Souhail said that was starting to change, in part because of missteps by the men in office. 
 ''When it comes to violence, militias, corruption, so many mistakes, men were mainly the ones who made these mistakes,'' she said. ''So we do believe we have improved the willingness of our people for our acceptance in the future.'' 
 She pointed to stirrings of change among Iraqi women. ''Many women who wore the hijab for security reasons are now able to take it off, and many who were not able to drive cars are now starting to drive,'' she said. ''There is a change in the tone of our society.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a campaign rally in Baghdad last week, women held a poster of a female candidate who was assassinated in Mosul this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MEN (90%); POLITICS (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POVERTY RATES (72%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); COUPS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



454 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: More Deals Expected In Energy

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Energy companies are on the prowl again. 
 After a two-year slowdown in mergers and acquisitions in the industry, companies are once again looking for ways to use their checkbooks to expand their reserves, buy new technology or snap up promising oil and gas fields. 
 Unlike the round of mergers that created today's behemoths in the late 1990s, the current round is not expected to form new giant companies like Exxon Mobil or ConocoPhillips. This time, companies are focused on buying fast-growing small companies, or on acquisitions that expand their reserves in an era when it is hard for them to find new places to drill. 
 The targets include companies that own new fields in nations like Ghana and Sierra Leone, independent gas producers in the United States, and companies that control fields in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
 ''In this industry, where you're in the business of increasing your reserves, there are two ways to do so -- to drill or to acquire,'' said Christopher W. Sheehan, director for mergers and acquisitions research at IHS Herold. ''There is an intense competition for access to resources through mergers.'' 
 This latest wave of consolidation comes amid fresh enthusiasm for natural gas production, especially in the United States, where new technology has significantly expanded the nation's reserves. The huge potential of new gas fields has driven most mergers in the North American energy sector in recent months, with more to come this year, according to bankers and analysts. 
 Buying interest is particularly strong among the international oil majors, which sold off many of their onshore assets in the United States over the last decade and are now eager to come back. Anthony B. Hayward, the chief executive of BP, said last month at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, that the gas being extracted from beds of shale was ''a complete game-changer. It probably transforms the U.S. energy outlook for the next 100 years.''
 The biggest deal in that sector was announced in December, when Exxon Mobil said it would buy XTO Energy for $31 billion. Shortly after, Total of France said it would pay $800 million for a minority share in Chesapeake Energy's Barnett shale gas portfolio. Chesapeake has raised about $11 billion from joint ventures for its shale gas assets in the last two years; BP and Royal Dutch Shell have struck similar agreements in recent months. 
 In a humorous note to investors, Bernstein Research analysts quipped recently: ''Frankly, you can virtually plan your gym sessions around these deals, they are becoming so regular. Thinking about it, isn't it about time for another Statoil deal?''
 Statoil, the Norwegian national oil company, recently struck a deal with ConocoPhillips to trade some of its assets in the Gulf of Mexico for acreage that Conoco holds in the Chukchi Sea of Alaska; in November, Statoil agreed to pay $3.4 billion for a 32.5 percent stake in Chesapeake's assets in the Marcellus shale formation in the Appalachian region.
 ''The growth opportunities from shale gas are something we haven't seen in the United States for decades,'' said Roger D. Read, managing director and senior energy analyst at Natixis Bleichroeder in Houston. ''The United States, which had been a static market, now has the chance to grow its production.'' 
 Bankers and energy consultants expect deals to pick up this year after a two-year lull. There were 244 deals in the global oil and gas industry last year, down from 285 in 2008, and 336 at the peak in 2007, according to data from IHS Herold, a consulting and advisory firm. 
 While the number of transactions was down, the size of the Exxon-XTO transaction helped raise the total value of last year's mergers to $144 billion, up from $104 billion in 2008. (Merger values peaked at $200 billion in 1998, a year when many of today's giant companies were created.) 
 Analysts point to a wide range of companies that are potentially on the market, including EOG Resources, Southwestern Energy, PetroHawk Energy, the Encana Corporation, Chesapeake Energy, Devon Energy and Anadarko Petroleum. 
 ''There will be a shakeout there. It will be eat, or be eaten,'' said James Bogues, who leads Accenture's North America energy mergers and acquisition unit. ''Given Exxon's reputation as a very deliberate, cautious company, the fact they made such a bold move with XTO will no doubt inspire others that a price has been set for shale gas assets and technology.'' 
 Outside of the United States, the pace of mergers has also picked up. Suncor Energy of Canada bought Petro-Canada in a deal valued at $18 billion at the time to form a national giant and stave off possible bids from foreign buyers, particularly Chinese companies. In West Africa, Exxon has offered $4 billion for a stake in an offshore field in Ghana, though that deal could fall through given the government's threat to block the transaction; international firms, including Eni of Italy, are battling over some prospective fields in Uganda. 
 Chinese companies have also been particularly active. In August, Sinopec, one of China's biggest oil companies, closed a $9 billion acquisition, buying Addax Petroleum, a Geneva-based oil explorer that is most active in Nigeria, Gabon and the Kurdistan region of Iraq. 
 Sinopec, formally known as the China Petroleum and Chemical Corporation, said the deal ''represents the largest successful acquisition of overseas oil and gas assets by a Chinese company.''
 The interest of national oil companies, like Sinopec, could prove a powerful and lasting driver for mergers. 
 ''The mandate of national oil companies is to go and find reserves around the world,'' said Jon McCarter, the oil and gas transactions leader for the Americas at Ernst & Young. ''They have been very active and very aggressive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Drilling at a natural gas site in Texas. New technology for natural gas production has driven many of the recent energy company mergers in North America.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT NAGER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B6) CHARTS: Expecting Another Wave of Consolidation: Companies in the oil and gas industry have more deals in the works amid new interest in natural gas drilling in the Unites States.: Global oil and gas industry mergers and acquisitions (Source: IHS Herold)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); MERGERS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (79%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (79%); EXECUTIVES (67%); JOINT VENTURES (60%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (93%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (93%); RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (93%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%)

PERSON: TONY HAYWARD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GHANA (71%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



455 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Slow and Steady Across the Sea Aids Profit and the Environment

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
It took more than a month for the container ship Ebba Maersk to steam from Germany to Guangdong, China, where it unloaded cargo on a recent Friday -- a week longer than it did two years ago. 
 But for the owner, the Danish shipping giant Maersk, that counts as progress. 
 In a global culture dominated by speed, from overnight package delivery to bullet trains to fast-cash withdrawals, the company has seized on a sales pitch that may startle some hard-driving corporate customers: Slow is better. 
 By halving its top cruising speed over the last two years, Maersk cut fuel consumption on major routes by as much as 30 percent, greatly reducing costs. But the company also achieved an equal cut in the ships' emissions of greenhouse gases. 
 ''The previous focus has been on 'What will it cost?' and 'Get it to me as fast as possible,' '' said Soren Stig Nielsen, Maersk's director of environmental sustainability, who noted that the practice began in 2008, when oil prices jumped to $145 a barrel. 
 ''But now there is a third dimension,'' he said. ''What's the CO2 footprint?''
 Traveling more slowly, he added, is ''a great opportunity'' to lower emissions ''without a quantum leap in innovation.'' 
 In what reads as a commentary on modern life, Maersk advises in its corporate client presentation, ''Going at full throttle is economically and ecologically questionable.''
 Transport emissions have soared in the past three decades as global trade has grown by leaps and bounds, especially long-haul shipments of goods from Asia. The container ship trade grew eightfold between 1985 and 2007.
 The mantra was, ''Need it now.'' But the result is that planes, ships, cars and trucks all often travel at speeds far above maximum fuel efficiency. 
 Slowing down from high speeds reduces emissions because it reduces drag and friction as ships plow through the water.
 That principle holds true in the air and on land. Planes could easily reduce emissions by slowing down 10 percent, for example, adding just five or six minutes to a flight between New York and Boston or Copenhagen and Brussels, said Peder Jensen, a transportation expert at the European Environment Agency. 
 And simply driving at 55 instead of 65 miles per hour cuts carbon dioxide emissions of American cars by about 20 percent, according to the International Energy Agency. Yet many states are still raising speed limits, even as policy makers fret about dependence on foreign oil and emissions that heat the atmosphere. 
 ''There's a sense of urgency we've created -- it's always faster, faster, faster,'' said Tim Castleman, founder of the Drive55 Conservation Project, a group in Sacramento that advocates the lower speed limit. 
 ''I can drive 55 right now,'' he said. ''I believe it will make a profound difference.''
 Of course, mile per mile, shipping even at conventional speeds is far more efficient than road travel. Shipping a ton of toys from Shanghai to northern Germany churns out lower emissions than trucking them south to Berlin afterward.
 Some carriers initially resisted the idea of slowing down, arguing that speed was indispensable to serving their clients. 
 ''There was initially a lot of skepticism,'' said Philip Damas, director of liner travel at Drewry Shipping Consultants of London. ''All ships are built with the expectation they'd have to sail fast.''
 But now, he said, carriers from Germany to Israel to China are starting to embrace the slow strategy. Today more than 220 vessels are practicing ''slow steaming'' -- cruising at 20 knots on open water instead of the standard 24 or 25 -- or, like Maersk's vessels, ''super slow steaming'' (12 knots). 
 And many companies find that the practice allows them to cut prices in an ever more competitive market, even at a time when oil prices hover around $80 a barrel. 
 Any rise in fuel prices or taxes would enhance the appeal of slow steaming. At the international climate conference in Copenhagen in December, Connie Hedegaard, now the European Union's climate minister, proposed a tax on fuels used in shipping, saying the proceeds could be used to help poor countries adapt to rising temperatures. 
 China and India objected, saying it would increase the price of their exports to the West. 
 There are practical obstacles to a tax. For one thing, longstanding international agreements intended to promote global trade exempt airline and shipping fuel from taxation. 
 And even if nations were to accept emission ceilings under a so-called cap-and-trade system, there is enormous disagreement over how the accounting would work. Should the Ebba Maersk's emissions appear on Denmark's balance sheet, even though it travels from China to Germany and back? 
 While slowing speeds is a good idea, said David Bonilla, senior research fellow at the transport studies unit at Oxford University's School of Geography and the Environment, he maintains that it cannot on its own arrest the emissions growth resulting from today's trade patterns, in which vast amounts of goods are produced in Asia but consumed in Europe or the United States. 
 To make a difference, he said, fuel costs for long-distance shipping must rise to the point where carriers are forced to invest in new, far more efficient boats or shift to shorter routes. 
 ''What you may have to do is to shift the location of industrial plants in international supply chains to shorten the distance between production and consumption,'' he added. ''But it's very difficult to do that.''
 Yet in shifting hundreds more ships to its slow steaming program last year, Maersk considered itself prescient: it is convinced that a carbon tax or tighter shipping rules are on the horizon. 
 ''This is not going away, and those of us who are starting now will be ahead of regulations,'' Mr. Nielsen said. 
 Super slow shipping involves adjustments. Maersk had to prove that slow speeds would not damage ship engines in order to maintain engine warranties that did not cover such slow travel. Customers have to factor in extra time for delivery, which can be problematic for time-sensitive products like fashion or electronics, said Mr. Damas of Drewry Shipping. 
 Maersk has also shouldered the labor costs of having crews at sea for longer periods and added two ships on its Germany-to-China route to maintain scheduled deliveries. But those expenses were canceled out by decreased fuel costs, it said. 
 Now Maersk is working with customers in the hopes of slowing more boats and contemplating charging customers variable rates, depending on speed. 
 If so, ''they will have to decide what needs to come quickly,'' Mr. Nielsen said, ''and what can go on the proverbial slow boat to China.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A view of loading operations from the bridge of the Eugen Maersk at Bremerhaven, Germany.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON WELTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); CONTAINERIZATION (89%); SPEED LIMITS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (72%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); SHIPMENTS (50%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: A P MOELLER-MAERSK A/S (92%)

TICKER: MAERSK.B (CPH) (92%); MAERSK.A (CPH) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BREMEN, GERMANY (79%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (66%); BOSTON, MA, USA (66%) SOUTH CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%) CHINA (92%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); DENMARK (73%); BELGIUM (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



456 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 AFTER MEETINGS, POPE MAKES 
 No Call for Punishment
 After two days of conversations between Pope Benedict XVI and Irish bishops about a sex scandal, there was no explicit call for the punishment of those who perpetrated what the Pope called a ''heinous crime.'' PAGE A7 
 DUBAI CALLS FOR MANHUNT 
 The authorities in Dubai called for an international search to capture nearly a dozen professional assassins who tracked a senior Hamas official to his Dubai hotel in January, killed him and then fled the country using European passports. PAGE A4 
 POWER BATTLE IN VENEZUELA
 Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez, is using tactics like raids by secret police and the expropriations of some of his most powerful supporters' businesses to consolidate control as a power struggle at the highest levels of the country's government unfolds. PAGE A6 
 National
 FOR FAMILY OF SUSPECT, 
 Questions Linger
 Eight months after a man opened fire on an Arkansas military recruiting center, killing a soldier, the family of the Muslim convert charged in the attack is still struggling to explain what happened. PAGE A11 
 DISCONTENT OVER COLLEGES
 A new study finds that most Americans believe that colleges operate like businesses, concerned more with their bottom line than with the educational experience of students. PAGE A11 Bay Area Rail Money Blocked A13 
 New York
 RANGEL FACES CHALLENGE
 In Democratic Primary
 Vincent Scott Morgan is waging a grass-roots Democratic primary campaign against Charles B. Rangel, a popular Harlem congressman with whom he once worked, claiming that distractions have left the 15th District ''unrepresented.'' 
 PAGE A16 
 Business
 ENERGY COMPANY MERGERS ARE EXPECTED TO RISE
 After a two-year slowdown in mergers and acquisitions in the energy industry, companies are once again looking for ways to use their checkbooks to expand their reserves, buy new technology or snap up promising oil and gas fields. PAGE B1 
 TIGHT REIN ON WALL STREET
 Paul A. Volcker, former chairman of the Federal Reserve, has enlisted the support of nearly a dozen peers whose pedigrees on Wall Street and in banking are impeccable for a rule prohibiting banks from trading securities for their own gain. PAGE B1 
 OLD CANDY, NEW SIZE
 The Hershey Company is introducing three new candy varieties modeled after its Reese's Pieces: Almond Joy Pieces, York Pieces and Hershey's Special Dark Pieces, in the hope of offering brand devotees more options. PAGE B7 
 EXECUTIVES REFUSE BONUS
 For the second year in a row, Barclays two top leaders, the chief executive, John Varley, and the president, Robert E. Diamond Jr., opted to give up their bonuses, in recognition of public anger over bank executives taking large payouts amid the country's current recession.
 PAGE B9 
 Sports
 MUSCLES AND POUNDS BOOST 
 Ice Dancer's Prospects
 Heading into their second Olympic Games, Tanith Belbin and Ben Agosto, the Olympic silver medalists in 2006, are once again among the favorites to win a medal in the competition. What should give them an edge this time, though, are Belbin's newly found muscles and curves. PAGE B15
 WEATHER REDUCES CROWDS
 Olympic organizers finally abandoned all hope for standing-room admission to the snowboarding events. The monthlong meltdown at Cypress Mountain has left about 28,000 spectators disappointed and will reduce the Games' ticket revenue by $1.4 million. PAGE B13
 Arts
 NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC WEIGHS RENOVATIONS
 The New York Philharmonic announced its programming for 2010-11. Separately, the orchestra's board of trustees recently formed a committee to consider interim and major long-term restructuring of the orchestra's home, Avery Fisher Hall. PAGE C1
 MUSINGS ON GAY IDENTITY
 Ben Brantley writes that ''The Pride,'' a diptych portrait of homosexuality in the 1950s, which opened at the Lucille Lortel Theater in Manhattan, is a heartfelt work, but often feels as awkward and self-conscious as its closeted 1950s lovers. PAGE C1
 OBSESSING OVER TOLSTOY
 ''The Possessed,'' by Elif Batuman, is ostensibly about her favorite Russian authors, but Dwight Garner writes that is actually an examination of this question: How do we bring our lives closer to our favorite books? PAGE C1
 Dining
 CHEFS USE TWITTER 
 To Air Their Grievances
 An online war of words has been ignited, the result of a Twitter message posted during the snowstorm last week by Joe Dobias, owner and chef of JoeDoe restaurant. He wrote that deliveries from upstate purveyors had arrived, but not fish from a local supplier. It was all downhill from there once the supplier responded. PAGE D1 
 Op-ed
 THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MERGERS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (85%); SEX SCANDALS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); MILITARY RECRUITING (72%); WINTER SPORTS (71%); HAMAS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); RECESSION (66%); CONFECTIONERY (65%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (61%); ATHLETES (61%); WINTER OLYMPICS (61%); OLYMPICS (61%); SPORTS AWARDS (60%); SECURITIES TRADING (60%); RESEARCH REPORTS (53%)

COMPANY: HERSHEY CO (81%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%)

TICKER: HSY (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (81%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (81%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (73%); HUGO CHAVEZ (54%); JOHN VARLEY (50%); CHARLES B RANGEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



457 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: An Order of Prosperity, To Go

BYLINE: By W. MICHAEL COX. 
W. Michael Cox, the former chief economist for the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, is the director of the Center for Global Markets and Freedom at Southern Methodist University's Cox School of Business.

DATELINE: Dallas 

 BODY:
 PRESIDENT OBAMA called on America to ''export more of our goods'' in his State of the Union address last month, setting a goal of doubling what we sell abroad in five years. Good idea, but it would have been so much better if he had said ''goods and services.''
 Editing the president's speeches isn't my job, but the missing words suggest that the White House, like much of the rest of the country, hasn't realized that exports of services are one of America's 21st-century success stories. We still picture exports being loaded on ships or planes, but -- as the accompanying chart based on Commerce Department data shows -- overseas sales are today increasingly delivered in person or sent across the Internet.
 Exports of American services have jumped by 84 percent since 2000, while the growth rate among goods was 66 percent. America trails both China and Germany in sales of goods abroad, but ranks No. 1 in global services by a wide margin. And while trade deficits in goods have been enormous -- $840 billion in 2008 -- the country runs a large and growing surplus in services: we exported $144 billion more in services than we imported, dwarfing the surpluses of $75 billion in 2000 and $58 billion in 1992. 
 Equally important, Commerce Department data show that the United States is a top-notch competitor in many of the high-value-added services that support well-paying jobs.
 One of the brightest spots is operational leasing -- a segment of the industry that handles short-term deals on airplanes, vehicles and other equipment -- in which exports exceeded imports by eight to one. Our edge was six to one in distributing movies and television shows, and nearly four to one in architectural, construction and engineering services. Royalties and license fees, one of the largest categories in dollar terms, came out better than three to one, as did exports in advertising, education, finance, legal services and medicine. 
 All told, the United States is competitive in 21 of 22 services trade categories. It recorded striking surpluses in 12 of them. Only in insurance did America run a significant deficit, a persistent outcome that reflects foreign prowess in reinsurance (that is, policies insurers take out from other insurance companies to protect against catastrophic losses).
 This pattern holds over time. The pecking order may change from year to year -- for example, industrial engineering had the biggest surplus in 2006 and film and television held the top spot in 2007 -- but the data consistently show the United States is highly competitive in a wide range of services categories.
 So, given how well we are selling services abroad already, can we reach President Obama's five-year goal of doubling exports? Actually, it shouldn't be that daunting. Our overseas sales of goods and services combined rose nearly 80 percent from 2003 to 2008. In fact, the current weak dollar and continuing economic growth in Asia might be enough to carry us the rest of the way to the goal even if the president's proposed National Export Initiative fails to get off the ground. That said, there are some concrete measures that should be taken now that will pay off in the longer term, most having to do with free trade. 
 The president said he would ''reform export controls'' and ''continue to shape'' an agreement that opens global markets during the so-called Doha round of World Trade Organization negotiations. But those talks are in their ninth year, and a final accord is a long way off. For now, we have to look at trade as a two-way street: increasing our opportunities to export entails giving other countries greater access to the American market. We can complain as much as we want about China and other nations stifling domestic sales of our products, but our companies will get nowhere if the United States comes to the bargaining table with a something-for-nothing mindset.
 President Obama's call for investing in the skills and education of our people will help exports, as our services tend to entail a great deal of specialized knowledge. Improving this labor force takes time, however, so any education improvements aren't going to spur exports in the next few years. The quickest way to upgrade the labor force to meet Mr. Obama's goal lies in immigration reform that admits more well-educated foreigners. A good place to start is by passing laws to allow more American-educated foreigners to stay in the country after they get their degrees. 
 A word of caution on jobs: the bilateral nature of trade suggests the president's goal on exports, even if reached, might not produce the net gain of two million jobs he prophesied. While rising exports will create jobs, higher imports would cut into employment. Still, even if a doubling of exports leads to a wash in the job count, the nation would be better off because the American jobs created will be higher-paying than those we lose. 
 Last, the details of Mr. Obama's export initiative haven't been fleshed out yet, but its very words should give us pause. They have the government meddling in a part of the economy where the private sector has been succeeding. 
 For example, will Washington offer tax breaks or other export incentives? While businesses may clamor for them, these would be a setback for freer trade -- after all, for years it has been America that has been hectoring other countries to end their subsidies to exporters. Will Washington try to pick winners in the global marketplace, like green energy? More often than not, this kind of industrial policy wastes money, fosters inefficiency and creates few permanent jobs.
 So, let's assume the government does its part to break down barriers and open more foreign markets -- what can our businesses themselves do to improve their performance? First, no company should assume that its services can't be exported. Today's technologies allow us to do things that were unthinkable just a decade ago. For example, surgeons are using high-speed data connections and robotics to operate on patients thousands of miles away. 
 Second, companies should also think about how they can adapt services to the local market. For example, the food retailer Yum Brands augmented its all-American KFC menu in China with noodles, steamed vegetables and pot stickers. 
 American executives also cannot show timidity in the face of supposed anti-Americanism. By and large, foreign consumers are fascinated by our products and consumerism. American companies took eight of the top 10 spots in Interbrand's 2009 survey of best global brands.
 President Obama was right to place a new emphasis on exports, but the best thing the administration can do is reduce impediments to trade and then get out of the way so America's resourceful companies and talented workers can increase their dominance in the global marketplace.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: AMERICA'S SERVICE TRADE (2008, in billions of dollars): EXPORTS EXCEED IMPORTS
 IMPORTS EXCEED EXPORTS (CHARTS BY ALWAYS WITH HONOR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INSURANCE (84%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); SALES & SELLING (77%); ROYALTIES (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (67%); ENGINEERING (67%); EDUCATION FUNDING (66%); REINSURANCE (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (62%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (62%); FILM (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



458 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Jobs On State's Bill In Mississippi

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: HATTIESBURG, Miss. 

 BODY:
Scott Phillips had to close his small plumbing company after the housing bubble burst and his business dried up. Roshonda Bolton lost her job when the garment and uniform factory where she had worked for 16 years shut down last August.
 Hunting for work just as the nation's economy was shedding eight million jobs, they found little besides discouragement. 
 ''I applied for everything, found nothing,'' said Ms. Bolton, 37.
 That finally changed when the two were hired by a paper-napkin factory here last month, placing them in the vanguard of a new approach that Mississippi and a growing number of states are taking to get people working again. Their salaries will initially be paid by the State of Mississippi, which is tapping into a relatively small pot of welfare money in last year's stimulus package that can be used to subsidize jobs directly. 
 Now they are being trained on the machines here at the Hattiesburg Paper Company, learning to turn mammoth rolls of paper into folded dinner napkins and toilet paper. The general manager, Steve Swiggum, said the state's offer to subsidize the salaries helped push the company to accelerate its hiring. 
 ''We kind of held back a little bit in the midpart of the fall,'' he said, ''just to wait to really see what the economy was going to do.'' 
 The debate over a new jobs bill in Congress -- where the Senate is considering a wavering agreement supported by the Obama administration -- largely centers on other approaches, like modest payroll tax breaks for businesses that hire and more spending on infrastructure. 
 Lately, however, with the unemployment rate stubbornly hovering near 10 percent, some liberal economists have urged the Obama administration to take a more direct tack: they want the government to spend money directly to create jobs, much as it did during the New Deal. Some call it the most cost-effective way for the government to create jobs. 
 The idea has gained little traction in Washington. But on a small scale, some 21 states are already taking the direct approach, using a sliver of the $5 billion in welfare money in last year's stimulus act that can be used to pay governments and private employers to hire people. 
 Florida recently announced that it would use up to $200 million to create thousands of jobs in the public and private sectors. Los Angeles County set itself a goal of putting 10,000 people to work with its money. Tennessee focused its initial efforts on Perry County, a small rural county where the unemployment rate rose above 25 percent after an auto parts plant closed.
 After Perry County paid for roughly 400 jobs, as varied as road workers and pie bakers, the unemployment rate dropped to 18 percent. But local officials worry about what will happen when the subsidies end.
 Here in Mississippi, state officials have come up with a novel approach that they hope will improve the chances that the jobs they create will outlast the subsidies. Labor experts say the experiment is being watched with interest by other states. 
 The Steps program, as Mississippi calls it, focuses on private-sector jobs. There are limits as to what kinds of work can qualify -- no strippers or bartenders need apply. And the program is set up to reduce the subsidy for each new worker over time: employers will be reimbursed for each new worker's full salary for the first two months of work, and then the monthly reimbursement will be scaled back gradually until it drops to just a quarter of the salary in the sixth month. After that, the employer must pay the full salary.
 The program is basically open to almost all for-profit businesses and nonprofit groups, as well as public hospitals, that are in good standing with the state. To increase small-business participation, officials said they were giving priority to employers with 25 employees or fewer, and barring companies where the work force has gone on strike or been locked out. No more than half of a business's work force can participate.
 For now, stimulus money is paying the salary of Edgar Herring, a 49-year-old who lost his job of 18 years when a local lumber company shut down last fall, at his new job on the housekeeping staff at King's Daughters Medical Center in Brookhaven.
 It is also paying the salary of Roger Thomas, 36, who lost his job as a car salesman, at his new sales job with National Collection Systems, a locally owned waste management company in Jackson. 
 And it is paying Johnny B. McGowan, 59, Curtis R. Williams, 43, and John McCoy, 46, to install metal studs and Sheetrock in the old Standard Life building in downtown Jackson, an Art Deco tower being converted to apartments.
 The challenge with subsidized work programs is to make sure that the government does not wind up paying for jobs that would have been created without public money, said Richard A. Hobbie, the chief executive officer of the National Association of State Workforce Agencies, which represents state labor departments.
 The last big federal subsidized jobs program, signed into law by President Richard M. Nixon, ended during the Reagan administration after critics charged that it was paying local governments for jobs they would have filled in any case.
 If the idea of subsidized jobs is seen as liberal in some circles, it seems to have bipartisan appeal at the state level. Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, one of the nation's most prominent Republicans, said he saw the state's program as being in the spirit of the welfare overhaul. 
 ''It's welfare to work,'' he said. 
 The state can spend up to $43 million on the program, which officials estimate could create as many as 3,500 jobs -- the equivalent of several factory openings, but only a small dent in the problem for a state that had 133,000 unemployed residents in December. Only a few dozen workers have been hired since the program began last month after receiving federal approval.
 Mississippi's decision to pay for jobs in the private sector means that the public is paying to create jobs that will provide little public benefit. But Mr. Barbour said he believed it to be the best way to improve the economy. 
 ''The real economy that generates jobs generates private-sector jobs, from whence come taxes and quality of life for people,'' he said in an interview in his office in Jackson. He added that he believed it would be self-defeating to try to spur economic development by using taxpayer money to create more public-sector jobs. ''That's like a dog chasing its tail, except sooner or later there's no tail left,'' Mr. Barbour said. 
 Now the problem facing Mississippi and other states is the calendar: the welfare money in the stimulus bill must be in the process of being spent by the end of September. Mr. Barbour said he hoped the program would be extended so more jobs could be created. 
 For the workers, there is another deadline: six months from now, when the subsidies wind down. But Wanda Lindsey, 39, who was hired to help a Jackson construction firm, Garrett Enterprises, manage projects and bid on new ones, said she expected to more than pay for herself. 
 ''I fully intend to make them a lot more than that in the first six months,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steve Swiggum, general manager of the Hattiesburg Paper Company, said the subsidized salaries helped accelerate hiring.
The State of Mississippi is paying John McCoy's salary as he works to help convert an Art Deco tower in Jackson into apartments.
 Scott Phillips, who closed his small plumbing business amid the housing bust, was eventually hired by Hattiesburg Paper. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); COUNTIES (69%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); LIBERALISM (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HATTIESBURG, MS, USA (90%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



459 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Judging A Stimulus By the Jobs

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 Imagine if, one year ago, Congress had passed a stimulus bill that really worked.
 Let's say this bill had started spending money within a matter of weeks and had rapidly helped the economy. Let's also imagine it was large enough to have had a huge impact on jobs -- employing something like two million people who would otherwise be unemployed right now. 
 If that had happened, what would the economy look like today?
 Well, it would look almost exactly as it does now. Because those nice descriptions of the stimulus that I just gave aren't hypothetical. They are descriptions of the actual bill. 
 Just look at the outside evaluations of the stimulus. Perhaps the best-known economic research firms are IHS Global Insight, Macroeconomic Advisers and Moody'sEconomy.com. They all estimate that the bill has added 1.6 million to 1.8 million jobs so far and that its ultimate impact will be roughly 2.5 million jobs. The Congressional Budget Office, an independent agency, considers these estimates to be conservative.
 Yet I'm guessing you don't think of the stimulus bill as a big success. You've read columns (by me, for example) complaining that it should have spent money more quickly. Or you've heard about the phantom ZIP code scandal: the fact that a government Web site mistakenly reported money being spent in nonexistent ZIP codes. 
 And many of the criticisms are valid. The program has had its flaws. But the attention they have received is wildly disproportionate to their importance. To hark back to another big government program, it's almost as if the lasting image of the lunar space program was Apollo 6, an unmanned 1968 mission that had engine problems, and not Apollo 11, the moon landing.
 The reasons for the stimulus's middlingpopularity aren't a mystery. The unemployment rate remains near 10 percent, and many families are struggling. Saying that things could have been even worse doesn't exactly inspire. Liberals don't like the stimulus because they wish it were bigger. Republicans don't like it because it's a Democratic program. The Obama administration hurt the bill's popularity by making too rosy an economic forecast upon taking office.
 Moreover, the introduction of the most visible parts of the program -- spending on roads, buildings and the like -- has been a bit sluggish. Aid to states, unemployment benefits and some tax provisions have been more successful and account for far more of the bill. But their successes are not obvious.
 Even if the conventional wisdom is understandable, however, it has consequences. Because the economy is still a long way from being healthy, members of Congress are now debating another, smaller stimulus bill. (They're calling it a ''jobs bill,'' seeing stimulus as a dirty word.) The logical thing to do would be to examine what worked and what didn't in last year's bill.
 But that's not what is happening. Instead, the debate is largely disconnected from the huge stimulus experiment we just ran. Why? As Senator Scott Brown of Massachusetts, the newest member of Congress, said, in a nice summary of the misperceptions, the stimulus might have saved some jobs, but it ''didn't create one new job.'' 
 The case against the stimulus revolves around the idea that the economy would be no worse off without it. As a Wall Street Journal opinion piece put it last year, ''The resilience of the private sector following the fall 2008 panic -- not the fiscal stimulus program -- deserves the lion's share of the credit for the impressive growth improvement.'' In a touch of unintended irony, two of article's three authors were listed as working at a research institution named for Herbert Hoover.
 Of course, no one can be certain about what would have happened in an alternate universe without a $787 billion stimulus. But there are two main reasons to think the hard-core skeptics are misguided -- above and beyond those complicated, independent economic analyses. 
 The first is the basic narrative that the data offer. Pick just about any area of the economy and you come across the stimulus bill's footprints. 
 In the early months of last year, spending by state and local governments was falling rapidly, as was tax revenue. In the spring, tax revenue continued to drop, yet spending jumped -- during the very time when state and local officials were finding out roughly how much stimulus money they would be receiving. This is the money that has kept teachers, police officers, health care workers and firefighters employed.
 Then there is corporate spending. It surged in the final months of last year. Mark Zandi of Economy.com (who has advised the McCain campaign and Congressional Democrats) says that the Dec. 31 expiration of a tax credit for corporate investment, which was part of the stimulus, is a big reason. 
 The story isn't quite as clear-cut with consumer spending, as skeptics note. Its sharp plunge stopped before President Obama signed the stimulus into law exactly one year ago. But the billions of dollars in tax cuts, food stamps and jobless benefits in the stimulus have still made a difference. Since February, aggregate wages and salaries have fallen, while consumer spending has risen. The difference between the two -- some $100 billion -- has essentially come from stimulus checks.
 The second argument in the bill's favor is the history of financial crises. They have wreaked terrible damage on economies. Indeed, the damage tended to be even worse than what we have suffered. 
 Around the world over the last century, the typical financial crisis caused the jobless rate to rise for almost five years, according to work by the economists Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff. On that timeline, our rate would still be rising in early 2012. Even that may be optimistic, given that the recent crisis was so bad. As Ben Bernanke, Henry Paulson (Republicans both) and many others warned in 2008, this recession had the potential to become a depression.
 Yet the jobless rate is now expected to begin falling consistently by the end of this year.
 For that, the stimulus package, flaws and all, deserves a big heaping of credit. ''It prevented things from getting much worse than they otherwise would have been,'' Nariman Behravesh, Global Insight's chief economist, says. ''I think everyone would have to acknowledge that's a good thing.'' 
 So what now?
 The last year has shown -- just as economists have long said -- that aid to states and cities may be the single most effective form of stimulus. Unlike road- or bridge-building, it can happen in a matter of weeks. And unlike tax cuts, state and local aid never languishes in a household's savings account. 
 The ideal follow-up stimulus would start with that aid. It would then add on extended jobless benefits, which also tend to be spent, as well as tax credits carefully drafted to get businesses to hire and households to spend, like the cash-for-clunkers program. 
 By this yardstick, the $154 billion bill that the House passed in December is decent. It includes $27 billion in state and local aid, $79 billion for jobless benefits and other safety nets, and $48 billion in infrastructure spending. 
 The smaller bills being considered by the Senate are worse. They may end up with no state aid at all, and their tax credits sound better -- with promises to help the long-term unemployed and small businesses -- than they are. ''The economic impact of the Senate bill, at this point, is starting to look very small,'' Mr. Behravesh says.
 Given what people have been saying about a successful stimulus bill, just imagine what they'll say about one that doesn't accomplish much.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, with Joseph Biden, after Mr. Obama signed the stimulus bill into law last year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B8) CHARTS: Signs of Improvement: Shortly after the stimulus package was signed last February, the economy began to turn around.: GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT
EMPLOYMENT
STOCK MARKET (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis
Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Bloomberg)(B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CONSERVATISM (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



460 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Issues Another Warning to Iran

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and ALAN COWELL; Mark Landler reported from Jidda, Saudi Arabia, and Alan Cowell from London. Clifford J. Levy contributed reporting from Moscow.

DATELINE: JIDDA, Saudi Arabia 

 BODY:
The confrontation with Iran over its nuclear program appeared to deepen Tuesday as Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton escalated her verbal assault during a Persian Gulf visit and Russia joined the United States and France in bluntly questioning Iran's ultimate intentions in enriching uranium. 
 Speaking in Jidda as she prepared to end a three-day regional visit, Mrs. Clinton said that it would create ''quite dangerous'' problems if Iran acquired a nuclear weapon, potentially setting off a nuclear arms race. 
 Mrs. Clinton offered a list of Iranian actions that, she said, contradicted its protestations of peaceful intent, including the disclosure last year of a hitherto secret nuclear facility near Qum.
 ''You have to ask yourself: why are they doing this?'' Mrs. Clinton said. Referring to Iran's insistence that it is not seeking nuclear weapons, she said, ''The evidence doesn't support that.''
 Only last week, Iran said it had begun enriching uranium to a higher level, ostensibly to feed a medical reactor in Tehran. 
 At a news conference in Tehran on Tuesday, reports said, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad reiterated that Iran was ready to suspend enrichment if it could exchange its low-enriched uranium stockpile for processed fuel rods from abroad. But he said the swap should be ''simultaneous'' -- a demand already dismissed by the United States and its allies.
 ''We are still ready for an exchange, even with America,'' Mr. Ahmadinejad said, according to Reuters.
 Mrs. Clinton's comments seemed to amplify the verbal sparring that began Monday when she said Iran was drifting toward a military dictatorship with the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps gathering ever greater political, military and economic power.
 By way of a response, the Iranian foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, said Tuesday that America itself answered to the description of a military dictatorship. 
 And as the exchanges intensified on Tuesday, Russia also entered the debate about Washington's campaign to secure stricter sanction against Iran, saying penalties could not be ruled out if Iran did not persuade world powers that its intentions were peaceful.
 Russia also joined the United States and France in signing a letter to the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear watchdog, asserting that Iran's uranium enrichment and its failure to notify the I.A.E.A. beforehand were ''wholly unjustified, contrary to U.N. Security Council resolutions, and represent a further step toward a capability to produce highly enriched uranium.'' 
 The letter, dated Feb. 12 and obtained from diplomatic sources in Washington, said that if ''Iran goes forward with this escalation, it would raise new concerns about Iran's nuclear intentions.''
 Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, visiting Moscow, on Monday urged Russia's president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, to support stiffer sanctions against Iran, but Mr. Medvedev withheld public support.
 On Tuesday, Natalya Timakova, Mr. Medvedev's spokeswoman, said Russia's position had not changed and the Kremlin believed Iran should have ''broader and more active cooperation'' with world powers on its nuclear program. 
 ''The international community needs to be certain that Iran's nuclear program is peaceful,'' she said, ''but no one can rule out the use of sanctions if these obligations are not fulfilled.''
 Iran has reacted sharply to the latest American criticism. 
 Mr. Mottaki ''raised questions about the United States military dictatorship in the region,'' the English-language broadcaster Press TV said on Tuesday, and accused Washington of practicing ''modern deceit,'' using ''fake words'' to disguise its intentions in the Persian Gulf area.
 ''We are regretful that the U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton tries to conceal facts about the stance of the U.S. administration through fake words,'' Press TV quoted him as saying. 
 Mr. Mottaki was speaking at a news conference alongside his visiting Turkish counterpart, Ahmet Davutoglu.
 He also accused Washington of interfering in the internal affairs of other states by undermining their ''scientific and technological achievements,'' an apparent reference to Iran's nuclear program which Iran says is for peaceful purposes permitted under international law. 
 ''Those who have been the very symbol of military dictatorships over the past decades, since the Vietnam war until now, see everyone else in the same way,'' The Associated Press quoted Mr. Mottaki as saying. Mrs. Clinton's current visit to the region, he said, was ''overflowing with contradictions and incorrect actions.''
 On Monday, Mrs. Clinton encouraged Iran's religious and political leaders to rise up against the Revolutionary Guards, coming as close as any senior administration official has to inviting political upheaval in the country. She chose to issue the call in Doha, Qatar, just across the waters of the Persian Gulf from Iran itself. 
 ''We see that the government of Iran, the supreme leader, the president, the Parliament is being supplanted and that Iran is moving toward a military dictatorship,'' Mrs. Clinton said. 
 Her visit was seen as part of the Obama administration's attempt to shore up support for more stringent sanctions directed at the Revolutionary Guard Corps. But Mr. Mottaki urged Russia and China not to follow Washington's lead, The A.P. said.
 While China has offered steady resistance to the idea of stricter sanctions against Iran, which supplies oil to Beijing, Russia's stance has seemed slightly more ambivalent. Russia has appeared in recent weeks to be edging closer to supporting stricter sanctions, but still seems to have reservations. Unlike other permanent members of the Security Council, Russia has a regional relationship with Iran that it does not want to inflame.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); ARMS RACE (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) INDIAN OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); FRANCE (91%); IRAN (90%); GULF STATES (88%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



461 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PAYBACK TIME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: PARTY GRIDLOCK FEEDS NEW FEAR OF A DEBT CRISIS

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator Evan Bayh's comments this week about a dysfunctional Congress reflected a complaint being directed at Washington with increasing frequency, and there is broad agreement among critics about Exhibit A: The unwillingness of the two parties to compromise to control a national debt that is rising to dangerous heights. 
 After decades of warnings that budgetary profligacy, escalating health care costs and an aging population would lead to a day of fiscal reckoning, economists and the nation's foreign creditors say that moment is approaching faster than expected, hastened by a deep recession that cost trillions of dollars in lost tax revenues and higher spending for safety-net programs.
 Yet rarely has the political system seemed more polarized and less able to solve big problems that involve trust, tough choices and little short-term gain. The main urgency for both parties seems to be about pinning blame on the other, before November's elections, for deficits now averaging $1 trillion a year, the largest since World War II relative to the size of the economy. 
 Mr. Bayh, the centrist Democrat from Indiana, lodged his complaint about excessive partisanship and Congressional gridlock on Monday by way of explaining his decision not to seek re-election. But he is hardly alone in sounding an alarm about the long-term budgetary outlook, which has Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security costs growing at unsustainable rates and an inefficient tax system that cannot keep up.
 ''I used to think it would take a global financial crisis to get both parties to the table, but we just had one,'' said G. William Hoagland, who was a fiscal policy adviser to Senate Republican leaders and a witness to past bipartisan budget summits. ''These days I wonder if this country is even governable.''
 Sensing political advantage, Republicans are resisting President Obama's call for a bipartisan commission to cut the debt, although recent studies have implicated the tax cuts and spending policies of the years after 2000 when they controlled Congress and the White House. Even seven Republican senators who had co-sponsored a bill to create a commission nonetheless voted against it recently.
 The president is not giving up. On Thursday, administration officials say, he will sign an executive order establishing the 18-member National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. He also will name as co-chairmen Alan K. Simpson, a former Republican Senate leader from Wyoming, and Erskine Bowles, a moderate Democrat from North Carolina who, as President Bill Clinton's White House chief of staff, brokered a 1997 balanced budget agreement with Congressional Republicans.
 ''There isn't a single sitting member of Congress -- not one -- that doesn't know exactly where we're headed,'' Mr. Simpson said in a telephone interview Tuesday just before word of his role got out. ''And to use the politics of fear and division and hate on each other -- we are at a point right now where it doesn't make a damn whether you're a Democrat or a Republican if you've forgotten you're an American.''
 While he criticized some liberal Democrats' refusal to reduce entitlement benefits, Mr. Simpson also dismissed Republicans' antitax arguments that deficits could be controlled with spending cuts alone. ''But they don't cut spending,'' he said, referring to the years Republicans governed with President George W. Bush. 
 Elected Republicans, however, are under intense pressure from their party's conservative base to oppose any tax increases -- a line in the sand that dims any prospects for bipartisan cooperation. Yet economists, including veterans of past Republican administrations, are vocal in insisting that the debt problem is too great to be solved without increasing revenues somehow and perhaps moving to a new consumption tax system like Europe's.
 The same economists also say a significant deficit-reduction plan is not possible unless Mr. Obama breaks his campaign promise not to raise taxes for households making less than $250,000. Last week, Mr. Obama said he would not impose that condition or any other on a fiscal commission.
 The situation is complicated by a debate over how quickly Washington should act even if it could. The Obama administration, Congressional Democratic leaders and many economists are pushing for additional government stimulus measures while the private sector remains weak. But anger about big deficits has stoked the populism roiling politics, and Republicans as well as some conservative Democrats want to cut spending right now as a way of addressing perceptions among voters that government has gotten too big, too intrusive and too profligate. Mr. Obama himself proposed a budget that would freeze spending on some categories of domestic spending for three years. 
 Many analysts say the president and Congress could send a strong signal to global markets by agreeing this year to a package of both long-term tax increases and spending reductions, especially in the popular entitlement programs, that would not take effect until 2012. That is the recommendation of two new studies, one from a diverse group sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences and a separate joint project of the Peter G. Peterson Foundation, the Pew Charitable Trusts and the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.
 As debt rises, so do interest costs; by 2014, at a projected $516 billion, they will exceed the budget for annual appropriations for domestic programs. The government will be competing with the private sector for credit, forcing interest rates higher and imperiling future prosperity. 
 Foreign investors now own more than half of the publicly held debt, and officials for the largest creditor, China, have fretted publicly about the fiscal course of the United States. While few expect foreigners to dump their assets, since the resulting plunge in values would hurt them as well as everyone else, the fear is that investors will demand higher interest payments and reduce or stop future debt purchases, threatening the government's ability to finance its borrowing. 
 Lesser financial and fiscal crises have brought the two parties together to compromise on tough choices about taxes and spending. They include the 1983 accord between President Ronald Reagan and a Democratic-controlled Congress that reduced the financial strains on Social Security, based on proposals from a commission led by Alan Greenspan, and budget agreements in the 1990s that contributed to a four-year run of surpluses at the end of the decade.
 Those bipartisan deals were done during times of divided government, when one party had the White House and the other controlled at least one chamber of Congress, giving each side some governing responsibility to find solutions. Now, with Democrats controlling the White House and Congress, the parties have less incentive to work together.
 Republicans today see opposition as a way back to power in November, and their party is more ideologically antitax than in the past, especially now that it is courting the Tea Party movement. Conservative activists so oppose compromise of any sort that several lawmakers have drawn primary challengers for working with Democrats. 
 Because the worst of the fiscal problem remains years away and therefore somewhat hypothetical to most people, there is also not the same incentive to act immediately that drove, for example, the 1983 deal, when Social Security was facing an imminent crisis.
 ''We literally tweaked the Social Security system,'' Mr. Simpson said. The changes, which still are being phased in 27 years later, resulted in big savings over time. Economists say future measures will have to be more severe the longer they are delayed. 
 In 1987, a global markets crash led the Reagan administration and Democrats to agree to a deficit-reduction package of spending cuts and tax increases. In 1990, the successful budget summit between Democrats and the administration of President George Bush came about after deficits had spiked again, threatening a fiscal crisis of mandatory and deep across-the-board cuts.
 Yet Mr. Bush's breaking of his ''no new taxes'' promise so infuriated conservatives that they helped defeat him in 1992. One of his critics was Newt Gingrich of Georgia. By the mid-1990s, Mr. Gingrich was House speaker and his party controlled Congress. After a politically damaging government shutdown, in 1997 he reached a deal with Mr. Clinton that helped balance the budget.
 When George W. Bush took office in 2001, the government projected surpluses of $5.6 trillion for the coming decade.
 In an analysis of what happened next, the economists Alan J. Auerbach and William G. Gale found that much of the accumulated debt owes to Bush-era policies and to the recession, with its costs in lost income taxes and automatic benefits for the unemployed. The one-time costs of stimulus and bailout measures are ''really small stuff'' relative to the rest, Mr. Auerbach said.
 More than Mr. Obama could have imagined, the situation now tests his promise to break Washington's gridlock and to lead in making ''the hard choices.'' 
 Privately, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and other administration officials are courting Republicans with assurances of the administration's sincerity about bipartisanship. Publicly, and with advice from some out-of-office Republicans, the White House is applying pressure by repeatedly reminding Americans of the mess Mr. Obama inherited.
 Polls are helping the administration make its case, people in both parties say. In the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, Americans by a two-to-one ratio say Mr. Obama is trying to work with Republicans, while by more than two-to-one they say Republicans are not reciprocating. As for the deficit, 41 percent say the Bush administration is most to blame, 24 percent say Congress and 7 percent say Mr. Obama.
 Yet politicians' failure to reduce deficits has long reflected voters' opposition to the necessary steps. The poll also found that by a two-to-one ratio Americans oppose cutting health care and education; 51 percent oppose lower military spending. 
 PAYBACK TIME Spending and Debt: Articles in this series are examining the consequences of, and efforts to deal with, growing public and private debts. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about troubled efforts to control the national debt misidentified the organizations that issued a recent report addressing the problem. ''Choosing the Nation's Fiscal Future,'' was by the National Research Council and the National Academy of Public Administration -- not by the National Academy of Sciences, which is the research council's parent organization.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Evan Bayh and John McCain, right, on Jan. 26 as they discussed proposed legislation to halt discretionary spending.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A14) CHARTS: A Troubling Outlook: Over the last decade, rosy deficit projections have collapsed, largely because of the latest recession, as well as Bush-era policies like tax cuts, Medicare drug benefits and war costs.: Estimates of the 2010 budget
Explaining the change
Debt held by the public, as a percentage of G.D.P.(Sources: Congressional Budget Office
Office of Management and Budget
 Government Accountability Office)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); INTERVIEWS (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); AGING TRENDS (71%); BUDGET FORECASTS (71%); MEDICARE (71%); AGING (71%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (67%); WORLD WAR II (67%); MEDICAID (56%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: EVAN BAYH (90%); BILL CLINTON (71%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); ERSKINE BOWLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



462 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths HAYES, DR

 BODY:
HAYES--Dr. Arthur Hull, Jr. Former FDA Commissioner, dies at 76. Dr. Arthur Hull Hayes, Jr. who led the US Food and Drug Administration during the Tylenol crisis of 1982 and was a nationally known professor of clinical pharmacology, died on February 11, 2010 from complications caused by a chronic illness. In 1981, Dr. Hayes was appointed Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration by President Ronald Reagan. 
During his years at the agency, he directed the FDA's response to the Tylenol tampering cases, called for a voluntary moratorium on direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription medicines and weathered criticism on the FDA's approval of the sweetener aspartame. Born in Highland Park, Michigan in 1933 to Arthur Hull Hayes and Florence (Gruber) Hayes, he loved to travel and visited countries on five continents with his wife of 49 years. In 1970, he and his wife co-founded a medical clinic on the Pacific island of Pohnpei, and they worked as a doctor and nurse team on behalf of the Jesuit Missions. Hayes was ordained a permanent deacon in the Roman Catholic Church in 1978 and served in parishes in Pennsylvania, Maryland and New York. Dr. Hayes received his A.B. in philosophy magna cum laude from Santa Clara University in 1955 and then went to Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar, earning a degree in philosophy, politics and economics in 1957. He returned to the US to study medicine; first at Georgetown University Medical School and graduated from Cornell University Medical School in 1964. Following his graduation, he served in the United States Army Medical Corps from 1965 to 1967-achieving the rank of Captain. Dr. Hayes worked as an Assistant Professor of medicine and pharmacology and Associate Dean for Academic Programs at Cornell before becoming a Professor of Medicine and Pharmacology and Director of Clinical Pharmacology at Pennsylvania State University Medical School in Hershey, Pennsylvania. After leaving the FDA, Dr. Hayes worked as Provost and Dean at New York Medical College and later, in 1986, was appointed President of E.M. Pharmaceuticals, a division of the German company E. Merck. Five years later, he founded MediScience Associates, a consulting firm, part of Nelson Communications, Inc., and stayed there until 2005, when he retired. Dr. Hayes served on numerous commercial and pro bono boards, received many honorary degrees and awards and was named a visiting professor at a several academic institutions. He consulted for a dozen foreign governments, authored more than a hundred professional papers, delivered thousands of lectures and trained many clinical pharmacologists working today. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Anne (Carey) of Oxford, CT ; his three children Arthur of Westport, CT, Lisa of The Netherlands and Kathy of Oxford, CT and their spouses; two sisters, MaryAnn Kelley of Kensington, MD and Florence of Southbury, CT, a brother, Joseph of New York, and eight grandchildren. Calling hours will be held on Thursday, February 18, 2010 at the Southbury Funeral Home of Munson-Lovetere, 235 Main St. North, from 4pm to 7pm. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held at St. Thomas the Apostle Roman Catholic Church, 733 Oxford Road, Oxford, CT at 11am on Friday, February 19, 2010. Burial will follow in Southford Cemetery, Oxford. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations be made to The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society, P.O. Box 9026, Pittsfield, MA 01202 and/or Ann's Place Cancer Support Services, 39 Old Ridgebury Rd., Suite 17, Danbury, CT 06810. To send online condolences, please visit www.munsonloveterefuneralhome.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); PHARMACOLOGY (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); US FDA APPROVALS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); CHRONIC DISEASES (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (71%); APPROVALS (71%); ARMIES (67%); RELIGION (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); BUSINESS TO CONSUMER MARKETING (55%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (53%)

COMPANY: NELSON COMMUNICATIONS INC (63%); E MERCK (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MICRONESIA, FEDERATED STATES OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010



463 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: February 17, 2010

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: HBO Go, the Best Online Video Service I Cannot Use

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: The service ignores the viewing habits of some Web-only video viewers. 

 BODY:
HBO's latest venture, HBO Go, looks like a great new product, streaming more than 600 hours of HBO-specific programming online. It's a shame that I won't be able to use it.
As my colleague Brian Stelter reported on the Media Decoder blog Tuesday: "There's one catch: you must already be an HBO subscriber" through your cable company, or now, Verizon's FiOS service.
I canceled cable last year and haven't looked back since. Although the vast majority of Americans still pay a cable or satellite TV operator a monthly fee to watch their favorite TV shows, a small segment of viewers have thrown away their cable boxes and chosen Web-based services like Hulu, iTunes from Apple and the streaming videos on Netflix.
Eric Kessler, a president of HBO, said the company was not offering the HBO Go service to attract a new audience. Instead, it hoped to extend its relationship with its current audience.
"We're a subscription service, and our ongoing overarching objective is to enhance the service to make it better," Mr. Kessler said. "It's about enhancing the satisfaction and continuing the life cycle of the subscriber."
But what about non-cable TV households? Eventually this group is going to grow, just as it has with every previous technological advance.
MP3 music players and digital cameras began as niche products, too. Now, compact discs and film cameras are an endangered species. Just a few years ago, most Web users derided social networking services like Facebook as a fad. Now Facebook is the second-most visited Web site on the Internet (after Google) and is closing in on half a billion users.
James McQuivey, a principal analyst for Forrester Research, sees online video viewers as a rapidly increasing audience. "I take umbrage with the idea that people don't watch video online, or that it's the bleeding edge of an audience," Mr. McQuivey said. "Video viewing online has reached two hours a week, which has doubled from 2008 to 2009, and it will continue to grow each year moving forward."
HBO has decided not to worry about those kinds of changes for now. It's clinging to the old model -- what Mr. Kessler called the "affiliate-friendly" approach, in which the company works closely with the cable and telephone operators to distribute its content.
"We have a relationship with the cable providers. They have 100 million users, and they literally have tens of thousands of customer service representatives on the phone selling HBO every single day," Mr. Kessler said. "That is a tremendous benefit to us."
Mr. McQuivey believes HBO could simply flip a switch later and enable an online-only video subscription. "HBO is simply putting a system in place, and at a later date, when enough consumers are viewing online video, they could easily integrate an online only membership further down the road."
But in the meantime, if you don't have cable and you want to watch HBO original programming, you have two options. You can call up your cable provider and ask if you can pay it $100-plus a month, again, so you can access HBO on your television and the Internet. Or you can continue to watch other shows online and wait until HBO's content comes out on DVD, iTunes or Netflix streaming, which is what I'm going to do. (Some people might choose a third option -- downloading pirated versions of HBO shows.)
It's too bad. I would've been willing to pay $15 or $20 a month for HBO content online, and I bet others would, too. HBO is choosing its partners of the present over its customers of the future.

        
What We're Reading: A Cook, a Slacker, Some Bubbly and Fall Colors
        
Boxee Raises Another $6 Million for Assault on Big Media
        
New Yorkers Cutting Back on Cable TV Service
        
Don't Count Out Cable Online
        
QuickBits: The Double Whammy for Sony and More

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); INTERNET VIDEO (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (79%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); STREAMING MEDIA (78%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (78%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (76%); INTERNET AUDIO (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); FILM (73%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (69%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (64%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (64%) apple; Cable And Satellite Television; Cable Television; HBO; hulu; iTunes; netflix; Televisions; time warner cable; Computers and the Internet; DVD (Digital Versatile Disc); Music; New Models, Design and Products; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Recordings and Downloads (Video); Satellites; Social Networking (Internet); Television; Apple Inc; Facebook.com; Home Box Office; Hulu.com; Netflix Inc; Netflix Inc|NFLX|NASDAQ; Internet

COMPANY: HOME BOX OFFICE INC (92%); NETFLIX INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); GOOGLE INC (53%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Inc; Facebook.com; Home Box Office; Hulu.com; iTunes; Netflix Inc

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (58%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%) Netflix Inc; NFLX; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (58%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012



464 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1794 words

HEADLINE: The Spotless Garden

BYLINE: By MICHAEL TORTORELLO

 BODY:
THERE'S a ''Beyond Thunderdome'' quality to Rob Torcellini's greenhouse. The 10-by-12-foot structure is undistinguished on the outside: he built it from a $700 kit, alongside his family's Victorian-style farmhouse in Eastford, Conn., a former farming town 35 miles east of Hartford. What is going on inside, however, is either a glimpse at the future of food growing or a very strange hobby -- possibly both.
 There are fish here, for one thing, shivering through the winter, and a jerry-built system of tanks, heaters, pumps, pipes and gravel beds. The greenhouse vents run on a $20 pair of recycled windshield wiper motors, and a thermostat system sends Mr. Torcellini e-mail alerts when the temperature drops below 36 degrees. Some 500 gallons of water fill a pair of food-grade polyethylene drums that he scavenged from a light-industry park.
 Mr. Torcellini's greenhouse wouldn't look out of place on a wayward space station where pioneers have gone to escape the cannibal gangs back on Earth. But then, in a literal sense, Mr. Torcellini, a 41-year-old I.T. director for an industrial manufacturer, has left earth -- that is, dirt -- behind. 
 What feeds his winter crop of lettuce is recirculating water from the 150-gallon fish tank and the waste generated by his 20 jumbo goldfish. Wastewater is what fertilizes the 27 strawberry plants from last summer, too. They occupy little cubbies in a seven-foot-tall PVC pipe. When the temperature begins to climb in the spring, he will plant the rest of the gravel containers with beans, peppers, tomatoes and cucumbers -- all the things many other gardeners grow outside.
 In here, though, the yields are otherworldly. ''We actually kept a tally of how many cherry tomatoes we grew,'' Mr. Torcellini said of last summer's crop. ''And from one plant, it was 347.'' A trio of cucumber plants threw off 175 cukes.
 If that kind of bounty sounds hard to believe, Mr. Torcellini has a YouTube channel to demonstrate it. ''There's alternate ways of growing food,'' he said. ''I don't want to push it down people's throats, but if someone's interested, I'd like to show them you can do this with cheap parts and a little bit of Yankee ingenuity.''
 It's all part of a home experiment he is conducting in a form of year-round, sustainable agriculture called aquaponics -- a neologism that combines hydroponics (or water-based planting) and aquaculture (fish cultivation) -- which has recently attracted a zealous following of kitchen gardeners, futurists, tinkerers and practical environmentalists.
 And Australians -- a lot of Australians.
 In Australia, where gardeners have grappled with droughts for a decade, aquaponics is particularly appealing because it requires 80 to 90 percent less water than traditional growing methods. (The movement's antipodean think tank is a Web site called Backyard Aquaponics, where readers can learn how, say, to turn a swimming pool into a fish pond.)
 In the United States, aquaponics is in its fingerling stage, yet it seems to be increasing in popularity. Rebecca Nelson, 45, half of the company Nelson &Pade, publishes the Aquaponics Journal and sells aquaponics systems in Montello, Wis. While she refused to disclose exact sales figures, Ms. Nelson said that subscriptions have doubled every year for the last five years, and now number in the thousands. Having worked in the industry since 1997, leading workshops and consulting with academics, she estimates that there may be 800 to 1,200 aquaponics set-ups in American homes and yards and perhaps another 1,000 bubbling away in school science classrooms.
 One of Ms. Nelson's industry colleagues, Sylvia Bernstein, who helped develop a mass-market hydroponic product called the AeroGarden, recently turned her attention to aquaponics. She has started her own YouTube channel and a blog (aquaponicgardening.wordpress.com) and is teaching aquaponics at the Denver Botanic Gardens. She said she has done market research that suggests the technology may appeal to a half-dozen consumer types, including those seeking fresh winter herbs; gadget-happy gardeners; and high-income parents and their science-fair kids. But primarily, she envisions aquaponics as catnip for ''the LOHAS market,'' she said. ''That means Lifestyles of Health and Sustainability -- the green crowd.''
 It's worth mentioning that most of those categories would appear to describe the 47-year-old Ms. Bernstein. She built her first aquaponics system with her 15-year-old son on a concrete pad outside her remodeled 1970s-era Boulder, Colo., home. And she has since set up quarters in a 240-square-foot greenhouse. While she boasted about picking fresh basil the other day for a risotto, she has lately been preoccupied with exotic fish. Having tired of tilapia and trout, Ms. Bernstein is now introducing pacu, a thin, silvery import from South America that she called ''a vegetarian piranha.''
 Aquaponics is addictive, Ms. Bernstein believes, and it has a way of becoming a full-time pursuit. ''If you spend some time on Backyard Aquaponics,'' she said, ''people start with this little 100-gallon backyard system. But it never stays that way. Next thing, they'll say, the tilapia were really cool, but I want to grow trout.''
 Interested in aquaponics, but not ready to make it a life calling? No problem. An Atlanta company called Earth Solutions now sells kits online, on Amazon.com and the Home Depot's Web site. Called Farm in a Box, they range in price from $268 to $3,000, and come with pipes, pumps, frames and fittings. David Epstein, 50, the osteopath and entrepreneur who invented Farm in a Box, reports that the company has sold several hundred units since the product went on sale last March.
 Dr. Dave, as he likes to be called, created Farm in a Box after studying a do-it-yourself manual written by Travis W. Hughey -- a creative debt that bothers Mr. Hughey not a bit.
 Mr. Hughey, 49, is not just another proselytizer for aquaponics but, in his words, an ''agri-missionary'' who hopes to help feed the developing world. His free step-by-step plans have been downloaded more than 15,000 times since he started his site, Faith and Sustainable Technologies (fastonline.org), in 2007.
 Mr. Hughey credits researchers at North Carolina State University for building the prototype that started the modern aquaponics movement some 25 years ago. By comparison, he came to aquaponics with little more than an unfinished biology degree at Oral Roberts University and a background in yacht repair, a career that required him to be ''a jack of all trades, and a master of every one of them.''
 The low-tech, low-cost design for his ''Barrel-Ponics Manual'' can be built out of three 55-gallon barrels, a pump, a wooden frame and some off-the-shelf hardware. One barrel, which sits on the ground, holds the fish. A second -- split in half and filled with gravel -- holds the plants. The final barrel, a storage or flush tank, perches above the other two like a toilet tank. The effluent-rich water that flows from one receptacle to the next is the life of the system, flooding the plants with nutrients and then trickling back into the fish tank.
 From these rudiments, all manner of aquaponics systems can be built. Mr. Hughey has nine of them going in a demonstration greenhouse outside the double-wide mobile home he shares with his wife and two daughters in Andrews, S.C. He has grown everything from radishes to a papaya tree in those barrels. Of course, his family could also eat the tilapia swimming around the 1,000-gallon in-ground plastic tank. But he's saving them to use as brood stock.
 Mr. Hughey figures that other aquanauts will need to buy fingerlings from somewhere. He's starting to sell assembled Barrel-Ponics kits, too, for $495, plus shipping.
 This winter, he has begun construction on a pair of 1,200-square-foot aquaponics greenhouses to raise produce for the local natural foods market. Each one will take 80 barrel halves, 9 tons of gravel and a 3,000-gallon tilapia tank. The power for the pumps and heaters will come from a ''hand-built'' biodiesel generator. Mr. Hughey already has the fuel sitting in the yard: 12,000 gallons of vegetable oil that passed its expiration date.
 He isn't exactly stocking up for the end times. But with the way the economy is going, he said, it might not be a bad idea to have a backup plan to feed his family and neighbors. ''I'm trying to make this place as self-reliant as possible,'' he said. ''But ultimately, self-reliance isn't possible unless it's profitable.''
 There is something about aquaponics that seems to inspire this quirky blend of entrepreneurialism, environmentalism and survivalism. Even a mainstream businesswoman like Ms. Bernstein points to the water shortages in farming areas like the Central Valley in California -- ''to say nothing of Africa,'' she added.
 Jack Rowland can imagine a day when aquaponics set-ups could be built into new apartment complexes and be fed by municipal waste and geothermal power. In the meantime, he has started his own 1,200-gallon tilapia hatchery in his family's unfinished basement in Wappingers Falls, N.Y., about 10 miles south of Poughkeepsie. He houses the fish in black cattle troughs, which have proved to be sturdy and nontoxic. A stock tank heater keeps the water at a comfortable 75 degrees.
 Tilapia will tolerate crowding and will feast on your table scraps. (''They're the ultimate garbage disposal unit,'' Mr. Rowland said.) But, being tropical by nature, they die in the cold.
 One of the pools is called the Dinner Tank. It is here that Mr. Rowland condemns his tilapia to a five-day fast before they make their way to the frying pan or the broiler. Tilapia, he said, do not deserve their bad reputation among cooks as the white bread of the waterways -- mealy, pale and bland -- but ''you have to purge them or they taste gamey.''
 ''Most of the tilapia sold here was harvested months ago in China,'' he said. ''It's like eating a fresh tomato versus what you buy in the grocery store.''
 This summer, he hopes to transfer his operation from a spot next to the washer and dryer to a 50-foot-long hoop greenhouse. But he's going about the project carefully. This attention to detail will most likely comfort Mr. Rowland's neighbors: in his day job, Mr. Rowland, 57, is an outage planner for the Indian Point nuclear power plant.
 Though Mr. Rowland spends perhaps an hour a night in the basement, looking for floaters and new spawn, he knows that no system is fail-safe. Pumps break, heaters go haywire. The art of aquaponics is one of trial and error.
 ''My mentor in the tilapia world told me I really wouldn't be a master of tilapia until I killed at least a million fish,'' he said. ''I'm not there yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ROTATING CROPS: Rob Torcellini with lettuce from his aquaponics system in Connecticut. A system in Colorado uses wastewater from tilapia to nourish tomatoes. The tilapia are also food (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES).
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN RASMUSSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
CIRCULAR LOGIC: Rob Torcellini with a goldfish in his backyard aquaponics system in Eastford, Conn. The set-up, from a kit, circulates water between fish and plants, including ''strawberry towers,'' center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB TORCELLINI AND DOUGLAS HEALY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (FISH TANK)): NO DIRT REQUIRED: Sylvia Bernstein grows winter herbs and raises fish called pacu in Boulder, Colo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN RASMUSSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4)
 GARDEN VARIETY: Travis W. Hughey's patio-size aquaponics system in South Carolina grows flowers. He offers free building plans on his Web site.(D5) CHART: A Sustainable Agriculture: Aquaponics, an inventive form of closed-system agriculture, combines hydroponics and aquaculture -- water-based gardening and fish cultivation. (Source: Travis W. Hughey) (D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); AQUACULTURE (89%); FISHES (89%); GARDENING (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); AGRICULTURE (76%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (76%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (76%); SPACECRAFT (75%); PLASTIC PIPES & FITTINGS (74%); THERMAL SENSORS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%) COLORADO, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



465 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Trade Commission, Citing Deception, Sues Seven Job Placement Operators

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After eight months without work, Cathy Willburn spotted a classified ad last June offering a full-time job operating a forklift in a warehouse for $14 to $19 an hour, with benefits.
 Ms. Willburn, 47, of Grandview, Tex., had done similar work, so she called the toll-free number and was told to send in her resume, along with her checking account number to cover a one-time fee of $89. Later, she was told that the account's funds were insufficient, so she sent a check for $89.
 Ms. Willburn's bank account was charged, and her check was cashed -- but she never heard back, despite repeated calls to the company, Career Hotline Inc. She was out $178. 
 The Federal Trade Commission said on Wednesday that Ms. Willburn was among the victims of an expanding array of fraudulent job placement and work-at-home schemes. 
 The commission announced seven civil suits as part of a crackdown on such schemes, which officials said deceive job seekers by falsely promising work as federal employees, movie extras or assemblers of Christmas ornaments, among other positions.
 David C. Vladeck, director of the commission's Bureau of Consumer Protection, said the schemes ''take advantage of consumers in times of economic misfortune.'' 
 Since last spring, the commission has brought 11 cases against illicit job placement operators, including the seven announced on Wednesday.
 In one of the largest schemes, officials said, Real Wealth Inc., of Lee's Summit, Mo., sold booklets to more than 100,000 people -- many of them elderly and disabled -- telling them they could make money from home by mailing postcards and envelopes and seeking government grants. Among other assertions, Real Wealth said customers could ''rake in up to $1,500+ per week or more in solid cash'' by learning ''secrets'' about the ''$700 billion banking industry bailout.'' 
 Reached by phone, the company's owner, Lance Murkin, said only, ''I'm denying all charges.'' 
 Officials offered these accounts of other schemes that are the subject of the civil complaints: 
 An Arizona company called Government Careers Inc. charged customers $119 for study materials that it said would help them pass exams for jobs with the Postal Service, the Border Patrol and other agencies. The customers were charged though they had been told they would not have to pay until they found a job. The company did not respond to a request for comment.
 A Florida business called Darling Angel Pin Creations charged $22 to $45 to customers for a starter kit to assemble angel pins, work that was said to generate up to $500 a week. The company, which did not respond to a request for comment, insisted on approving the pins, but it rejected nearly all of the pins submitted, no matter how well made. 
 Also in Florida, Entertainment Work charged customers $80 ''memberships'' in a Web site that supposedly listed jobs in the film and television industry and the print media. The company failed to disclose that canceling would require paying another fee or going through a burdensome process. The company did not respond to a request for comment.
 In Texas, Abili-Staff Ltd. billed $30 to $90 for what were described as prescreened work-at-home jobs. A lawyer for the company said that only a minuscule fraction of its customers ever complained and that the company had issued hundreds of refunds to dissatisfied customers.
 In New Jersey, a company called Independent Marketing Exchange offered stay-at-home mothers jobs as ''mystery shoppers'' or envelope stuffers. A lawyer said the company's offerings ''were properly presented.''
 Also in New Jersey, a husband-and-wife team, doing business as Preferred Platinum Services Network, face civil charges as well as criminal mail-fraud charges on claims that they billed consumers for an opportunity to make money by sending postcards offering a fictional product called a mortgage accelerator. The couple, Philip Pestrichello and Rosalie Flores, did not respond to a phone message.
 The Justice Department, the Postal Inspection Service and several state attorneys general are helping the commission. 
 Last August, a federal court in Florida shut down Career Hotline, the company accused of cheating Ms. Willburn, and froze its assets. 
 The court subsequently issued a default judgment and ordered the company to pay $75,000. Its owner, Susan Bright, was barred from deceiving customers about job listings, but the judgment was suspended because she was unable to pay. Ms. Bright could not be reached for comment.
 Ms. Willburn filed a complaint with the Better Business Bureau after her experience. She has since found a job at a distribution center in Mansfield, Tex., through the Texas Work Force Commission. 
 ''I don't want this to happen to other people,'' she said. ''Everybody is seeking employment, but you just can't trust anybody. It's really sad.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); LITIGATION (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); BORDER CONTROL (66%); BAILOUTS (65%); POSTAL SERVICE (63%); CHRISTMAS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



466 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: High Schools To Offer Plan To Graduate 2 Years Early

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
Dozens of public high schools in eight states will introduce a program next year allowing 10th graders who pass a battery of tests to get a diploma two years early and immediately enroll in community college.
 Students who pass but aspire to attend a selective college may continue with college preparatory courses in their junior and senior years, organizers of the new effort said. Students who fail the 10th-grade tests, known as board exams, can try again at the end of their 11th and 12th grades. The tests would cover not only English and math but also subjects like science and history.
 The new system of high school coursework with the accompanying board examinations is modeled largely on systems in high-performing nations including Denmark, England, Finland, France and Singapore. 
 The program is being organized by the National Center on Education and the Economy, and its goals include insuring that students have mastered a set of basic requirements and reducing the numbers of high school graduates who need remedial courses when they enroll in college. More than a million college freshmen across America must take remedial courses each year, and many drop out before getting a degree.
 ''That's a central problem we're trying to address, the enormous failure rate of these kids when they go to the open admission colleges,'' said Marc S. Tucker, president of the center, a Washington-based nonprofit. ''We've looked at schools all over the world, and if you walk into a high school in the countries that use these board exams, you'll see kids working hard, whether they want to be a carpenter or a brain surgeon.''
 The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has provided a $1.5 million planning grant to help the national center work with states and districts to get the program running, Mr. Tucker said. He estimated that start-up costs for school districts would be about $500 a student, to buy courses and tests and to train teachers.
 To defray those costs, the eight states intend to apply for some of the $350 million in federal stimulus money designated for improving public school testing, Mr. Tucker said.
 High school students will begin the new coursework in the fall of 2011 in Connecticut, Kentucky, Maine, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Vermont. The education commissioners of those states have pledged to sign up 10 to 20 schools each for the pilot project, and have begun to reach out to district superintendents.
 The project's backers hope it will eventually spread to all schools in those states, and inspire other states to follow suit. Supporters include the National Association of Manufacturers and the National Education Association, the nation's largest teachers' union.
 Kentucky's commissioner of education, Terry Holliday, said high school graduation requirements there had long been based on having students accumulate enough course credits to graduate.
 ''This would reform that,'' Dr. Holliday said. ''We've been tied to seat time for 100 years. This would allow an approach based on subject mastery -- a system based around move-on-when-ready.''
 The new system aims to provide students with a clear outline of what they need to study to succeed, said Phil Daro, a consultant based in Berkeley, Calif., who is a member of an advisory committee for the effort.
 School systems like Singapore's promise students that if they diligently study the material in their course syllabuses, they will do well on their examinations, Mr. Daro said. ''In the U.S., by contrast, all is murky,'' he said. ''Students do not have a clear idea of where to apply their effort, and the system makes no coherent attempt to reward learning.''
 Its backers say the new system would reduce the need for community colleges to offer remedial courses because the passing score for the 10th-grade tests would be set at the level necessary to succeed in first-year college courses. Failure would provide 10th graders with an early warning system about the knowledge and skills they need to master in high school before seeking to enroll in college.
 Currently, many high school graduates enrolling in community colleges are stunned to find that they cannot pass the math and English exams those colleges use to determine who need remediation.
 Four years ago, a bipartisan panel of national education and other policy experts, assembled by the national center, recommended a far-reaching redesign of the American educational system, including the adoption of board examinations in high schools. 
 Other recommendations of the 2006 panel included giving states, rather than local districts, control over school financing, and starting school for most children at age 3. Mr. Tucker said the board examination project was the broadest effort at putting the panel's proposals into effect so far.
 ''One hope is that this board exam system can prepare students to move on to careers, to higher ed and technical colleges and the workplace, sooner rather than later,'' said Howard T. Everson, a professor of educational psychology at the City University of New York, who is co-chairman of the advisory committee. 
 In that respect, the effort is similar to the growing early college high school movement, in which students begin taking college-level courses while they are still in high school and earning college credit through nearby community colleges.
 States that participate in the pilot project on board examinations will pick up to five programs of instruction, with their accompanying tests, for use by the participating high schools. Those programs already approved by the national center include the College Board's Advanced Placement, the International Baccalaureate Diploma, ACT's QualityCore and the International General Certificate of Secondary Education programs offered both by Cambridge International and by Edexcel, part of Pearson Education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (93%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (92%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); TEACHER UNIONS (66%); FOUNDATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CENTER ON EDUCATION & THE ECONOMY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); DENMARK (79%); ENGLAND (72%); FINLAND (71%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



467 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Lending a Helping Hand, but With Restrictions

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
YOU are the family success story, respected in your business or profession and the larger community as well. So do not be surprised in today's bruising economy, the worst since the Great Depression with 14.8 million people unemployed, if you get a desperate call from a less fortunate relative. 
 ''I hate to ask you this,'' the plea might go. ''But we have no choice. I lost my job last year and haven't been able to find anything. We've maxed out our credit cards and are behind on the mortgage, and junior needs braces. Could you lend us a few thousand dollars? I promise we'll pay you back as soon as we can.'' 
 What do you do? Sidney Kess, a New York tax lawyer and accountant, told a continuing professional education session sponsored by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants that if you make that loan, ''You can kiss that money goodbye.'' 
 But if you want to help your caller, out of compassion, said Mr. Kess and other experts in personal finance, tax law and human relations, there is a lot to consider, and no one-size-fits-all answer. They offered these ideas to help you make a sound decision, perhaps by giving, not lending, and to avoid hurt feelings or recriminations later. 
 In the case of a parent and an adult child, for example, ''I suspect the relationship is more important than the money,'' said Dr. Elizabeth S. Wilson, a psychiatrist in Holmdel, N.J. Therefore, if a loan is unrealistic in the child's circumstances and the parents can afford to help in a crisis, ''I'd make it a gift,'' she said. 
 In one family she knew, Dr. Wilson said, the parents had lent their daughter money to buy a condominium after she graduated and started working. She repaid them each month, but when she lost her job, the parents forgave the loan payments until she could find a new job. 
 In another case, she said, a son spent most of his own money on a Corvette and ran up credit card bills. Then he wanted help. The best way to help him, as with many people in dire straits, was to send him for credit counseling, she said. 
 Dr. Wilson said that over the years she had seen many patients who were burdened by heavy debts, and she referred many of them to a nonprofit agency for credit counseling. The fee was nominal, and the patients benefited greatly from learning to make realistic budgeting decisions. Counselors also worked with them and their creditors to consolidate debt and get lower interest rates, improving monthly cash flow. In many cases profligate spenders had to cut up their credit cards.
 But people seeking such counseling should be careful. Many for-profit services charge high fees, and there are even outright scams. To search for a reputable agency, check with the Better Business Bureau (bbb.org) and also find out if the agency is licensed by state authorities and is a nonprofit. 
 Mr. Kess said that many people needed both financial assistance and financial counseling. ''It is best to get an independent party to do the analysis,'' he said. Sitting down and examining the personal finances of a family member can be stressful and lead to resentments, he said, as can misunderstandings or delusions on either side that a loan will be repaid. 
 In some situations, a family loan is reasonable, said Mark T. Nash, a partner in the Dallas office of PricewaterhouseCoopers. The ultrawealthy have long used family loans to transfer money from one generation to the next, he said. An older family member lends money to a younger one at a low interest rate. The younger one invests it for a higher rate of return and eventually repays the loan. Thus, the appreciation goes to the younger person and stays out of the estate of the elder person.
 In cases of financial stress, similar loans can be used if the assets to back them exist. Mr. Nash described a case in which a man was terminally ill. Insurance covered his medical costs but not the around-the-clock care he needed, so his wife took a leave from her job to look after him. They had a nice house but no current income for living expenses. The solution was a mortgage from a family member with monthly payments on only the interest; the principal was due in three years. By then the wife would be back at work and able to pay off the mortgage. 
 Mr. Nash cautioned that ''the Internal Revenue Service is going to be predisposed to think of a loan as a gift, but there are steps you can take to make it a loan.'' One is to sign an agreement for any loan of $10,000 or more, with interest paid and taxes paid on that interest. At present the minimum I.R.S. interest rates range from 0.72 percent annually for loans of three years or less to 4.44 percent annually for long-term loans. 
 The loan agreement must reflect a realistic expectation that the loan will be repaid. If the loan falls in arrears, diligent efforts to collect it must be made before it is written off. The I.R.S. has the right to challenge such loans, so the taxpayer must show appropriate documents, Mr. Nash said. Saying ''We shook hands on it'' is not good enough. 
 If a loan is not appropriate, the tax code allows any person to make a gift of up to $13,000 a year to each of any number of other people with no gift or estate tax consequences. In addition to the $13,000, you may pay health care bills and education outlays for family members or friends with no gift-tax consequence, provided the payments are made directly to the provider. 
 ''We very much want to help those we care about,'' Mr. Nash said. But when a relative has been grossly irresponsible, he said, ''sometimes you need to have tough love.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CARDS ON THE TABLE: Sidney Kess, a New York tax lawyer and accountant, said examining the finances of a family member can lead to resentments, but so can misunderstandings or delusions on either side that a loan will be repaid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CASH AND COUNSEL: In lending to children, Dr. Elizabeth S. Wilson, a psychiatrist, said, ''I suspect the relationship is more important than the money.'' When a loan isn't possible, she advises a gift, and sometimes credit counseling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (89%); CONTUSIONS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); LAWYERS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PROFESSIONAL CONTINUING EDUCATION (73%); DISMISSALS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONDOMINIUMS (70%); ACCOUNTING (68%); TAX LAW (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



468 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Navigating the Shifting Tax Landscape

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
THIS is the year of tax uncertainty, and what might seem like temporary tax benefits could turn into tax traps. 
 Retirement accounts, charitable gifts and taxes that older, high-income Americans face on Medicare are all in dispute on Capitol Hill. As long as Washington dithers on tax policy, higher-income individuals and people with most forms of investment income will find it difficult to plan their economic lives. 
 Here is a look at the changing tax landscape, starting with little-known levies that can fall hard on higher-income retirees. 
 MEDICARE A retired couple can easily spend and be taxed more for their health care than what it costs an employer to provide health insurance for one worker and a spouse. 
 One couple -- a husband and wife who both worked as professionals and delayed retirement past age 70 -- will spend about $21,100 out of pocket this year under Medicare, before counting co-pays. That is roughly double the amount an employer typically would pay for one employee and a spouse in a group insurance plan.
 (The husband, a retired insurance executive, provided a detailed breakdown of his and his wife's medical expenses, including official notices from Medicare, on the condition they not be identified.) 
 For starters, the Medicare Part B premium for all retirees is deducted from Social Security checks. The cost this year is $2,652 for a married couple, up almost 17 percent from the $2,270 cost last year. Congress makes higher-income couples pay an extra premium if their income is more than $170,000. This couple's extra charge this year is $5,834.
 The retired executive and his wife then pay more than $3,300 for a Medicare supplement, an option they chose because they travel extensively, and this option allows them to see any doctor. (Other supplements, with no extra cost, place limits on which doctors can be seen, except in emergencies.) 
 ''If you travel or want a surgeon or specialist outside your area because he has some expertise, then you want to pay for this supplemental,'' the retired executive said.
 Then there is the Medicare Part D drug plan, with its so-called doughnut hole. The plan covers some drugs, then makes people pay a large amount (the hole) and then picks up all drug costs. The executive and his wife said that they would spend the $9,000 maximum this year.
 All that comes to about $21,100 for the year, in addition to deductibles and co-pays for medical care and lab tests. 
 Beyond the medical costs, the couple is taxed on 85 percent of their Social Security benefits, which come to almost $58,000. For couples in the top bracket, that tax will amount to more than $17,000 this year, bringing their total medical and benefits tax close to $40,000.
 This former executive said he expected costs to be much higher in the future. Medical advances, and especially drugs, are driving up costs, he said, particularly new biologics that can cost tens of thousands of dollars a year. 
 As a result, ''fatal illnesses, often of short duration, have become chronic diseases,'' he said, and ''continued expensive care over a long period of time is costly.'' 
 ROTHS This year, people whose income level denied them access to a Roth I.R.A., where investment gains are free of tax, can create them. They can also convert tax-deferred individual retirement plans into Roths by paying the taxes.
 The net income from a pretax I.R.A. and the after-tax contribution to a Roth are the same (assuming tax rates remain unchanged over time). But a Roth offers an advantage: it does not require withdrawals for those older than age 70 1/2, as a traditional I.R.A. does.
 Those who convert this year can pay the income taxes over two years. However, that may be a costly strategy for high-income taxpayers. At year-end, the temporary tax cuts sponsored by President George W. Bush in 2001 expire. Next year, the two top rates are scheduled to revert to the higher rates of 2000.
 Someone in the top bracket would pay $35,000 this year to convert a $100,000 I.R.A. into a Roth, but would most likely pay $39,600 if they took advantage of the pay-later option.
 ROTH GIFT-GIVING Those converting to a Roth may want to combine it with a charitable gift annuity, getting some immediate tax savings, tax-favored income and leaving money to both heirs and a favorite cause, said Robert F. Sharpe, a fund-raising consultant in Memphis.
 A 71-year-old single man in the top tax bracket who converts a $100,000 I.R.A. and puts 60 percent into a Roth and 40 percent into a charitable gift annuity can save 16 percent of the $35,000 tax cost, said Nelson Wittenmyer, vice chairman at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation.
 With 6 percent annual investment returns, the donor would get almost $76,000 of tax-favored income during his expected lifetime, give heirs almost $74,000 after-tax and leave a charitable bequest of almost $42,000.
 ''You are never going to make yourself better off or whole this way,'' he said, ''because you are making a charitable gift.'' But for those inclined to leave money to a charity, combining a Roth conversion with a charitable gift annuity results in significantly less income tax than a straight conversion to a Roth.
 HEIRS Converting to a Roth that you expect to go to children or grandchildren may not make sense if their income tax rates are lower than yours, said Bob D. Scharin, a senior tax analyst with the tax and accounting business of Thomson Reuters.
 Say you are in the 35 percent bracket and convert a $100,000 traditional I.R.A. into a Roth. The cost will be $35,000 in taxes today, diminishing your estate by that amount. But if your life expectancy is relatively short and your heirs are taxed at the 15 percent tax rate, the most common bracket, or the 28 percent rate, they would pay less in taxes without the Roth conversion. 
 An inheritor who is a young adult and no longer listed on her parents' tax return could be in the 10 percent bracket. A student supporting himself with college loans and tax-free gifts from parents owes no income tax. Such a student could take withdrawals of $9,350 this year from an inherited I.R.A. before owing federal income tax, provided that it is the student's only source of taxable income.
 ''In leaving a Roth to heirs you need to think about the tax rate of your children or grandchildren,'' Mr. Scharin said.
 TAXING GIVING Some taxpayers get a subsidy on charitable gifts, but President Obama has proposed taxing gifts by some high-income Americans.
 Today donors deduct charitable gifts at their marginal tax rate. Some of those giving stocks and other property that is worth more than they paid for it get a subsidy because they avoid a 15 percent capital gains tax and can deduct the gift against wage income taxed at the 35 percent rate.
 Mr. Obama wants Congress to limit the deduction to 28 percent, the top rate for the alternative minimum tax. Someone making a cash gift that is subject to the 39.6 percent top tax rate on wages scheduled to be in effect next year would effectively be taxed 11.6 percentage points on the donation. 
 Speeding up donations, such as making those planned for the next several years during this year, would result in getting the full tax deduction and, in some cases, a tax subsidy of up to 20 percentage points. 
 I.R.A. GIFTS Congress has not extended the law that last year let people give up to $100,000 to charity from their traditional tax-deferred retirement accounts (with no tax deduction, because those accounts hold untaxed dollars). However, it may do so.
 If Congress reinstates the policy, people with plenty of income would benefit, because these gifts from retirement accounts count in determining the minimum annual withdrawals for those age70 1/2.
 ESTATES Congress is expected to take action this year on the estate tax, which was repealed for 2010 but is scheduled to return in 2011. Both supporters and foes of the tax have an interest in Congress enacting a new law, because otherwise the estate tax exemption, which was $3.5 million last year, reverts to the $1 million level and rates rise by 10 percentage points next Jan. 1. Congress can also retroactively impose an estate tax for this year. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Strategy for Giving: Taxpayers can convert tax-deferred individual retirement accounts into Roth accounts, where investment gains are free of tax, by paying income tax on the amount transferred. Those converting to a Roth can at the same time create a charitable gift annuity, getting some immediate tax breaks and leaving money to both heirs and a cause. Here is the dollars-and-cents breakdown for a 71-year-old single man in the top tax bracket -- with a 16-year life expectancy -- who converts to a Roth: (Source: Cleveland Clinic Foundation) (F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (92%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); GIFT TAX (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (77%); MARRIAGE (75%); DRUG PRICES (73%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (75%) OHIO, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



469 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Less Risk, But Staying In Stocks

BYLINE: By JOHN F. WASIK

 BODY:
EVEN after a modest stock market rebound last year, the downturns of the last decade have left portfolios bruised. 
 Millions of investors protected themselves in the traditional -- and most often ill-timed -- way. They reduced their stock exposure by moving into bonds. While that provided a bit of a haven in 2008, if inflation comes back or interest rates rise, bond values will fall. Those people who have most of their money in corporate bonds or income mutual funds can lose principal. And many people time market moves badly.
 Diversification also failed millions of people as United States and foreign shares, and real estate investment trusts, plummeted in lockstep during the financial crisis. Under modern portfolio theory -- the guiding principle behind modern money management -- this was not supposed to happen. 
 But a strategy used by professionals offers some basic portfolio protection. It uses stock options to ''collar'' stock market risks without giving up future gains.
 Collar strategies limit losses when stocks drop while providing some upside potential. Options are commonly used derivatives listed on stock exchanges that are linked to specific stocks or indexes. The strategy basically involves buying a put and selling a call option on a stock that you own. The former sets a limit on how much you can lose, and the latter limits your gain if a stock rises above a certain price. Both have target or ''strike'' prices. 
 The easiest way to employ the collar options strategy is to buy a mutual fund. The Collar Fund, whose ticker is COLLX, and the Gateway Fund, whose ticker is GATEX, are good candidates. While these funds are certainly not immune to market downturns, they do provide a fairly effective hedge. The Gateway Fund lost about 14 percent in 2008, compared with the almost 18 percent loss of its peers. The broad-based Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 37 percent that year.
 Michael Chamberlain, a fee-only certified financial planner based in Santa Cruz, Calif., uses the Collar Fund for his most risk-averse clients, who range in age from their 20s to 70s. 
 ''Asset allocation used to be the primary way to limit risk,'' Mr. Chamberlain said, ''but the Collar Fund seems like a reasonable way to decrease risk while providing exposure to the stock market.''
 With the Collar Fund, options are bought and sold on approximately 75 stocks, representing 300 of the largest United States companies. Although it is less than a year old, its managers, Summit Portfolio Advisors, have been managing money using collar strategies in separate accounts for years. The fund charges about 1 percent annually to investors for management fees and has a $2,500 minimum investment.
 Having employed options strategies since 1988, the Gateway Fund also focuses on risk-adjusted returns, but with a larger, more diversified stock portfolio. Instead of hedging a few stocks, it uses market indexes to get a bigger slice of the market. 
 Like many hedge funds, though, Gateway will lag the broader stock market on the upside. It rose about 6.6 percent last year, compared with a 16 percent gain for the S.& P. index. It carries a 5.75 percent sales charge (for A shares), 0.94 percent in annual expenses and a 0.25 percent 12(B)1 fee. The minimum investment is $2,500.
 Keep in mind that neither fund can completely suit your specific needs. If you want to tailor a collar strategy to your company stock position or your specific portfolio mix, you can buy and manage options yourself or hire an investment adviser to do it for you. 
 Collar strategies may not work as a long-term play over decades. They are most useful if you are in or near retirement and you need to hedge a large stock position. If you do not have confidence with options strategies -- or do not have a full understanding how they work -- the mutual funds offer a way to participate in this protective strategy.
 ''You need something customized to your needs,'' said Zvi Bodie, a financial economist at Boston University and a co-author of ''Worry-Free Investing'' (Financial Times Management, 2008). ''Collar funds are a safe substitute for target-date mutual funds, which don't protect you at all from the downside risk.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SAFETY FIRST: Michael Chamberlain offers collar funds to the risk-averse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RANDI LYNN BEACH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OPTIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



470 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Barrels in Reserve But Harder to Get

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER SWANN and MARTIN HUTCHINSON

 BODY:
With oil majors given the cold shoulder in many developing countries, it is no mean feat that Exxon Mobil managed to replace 100 percent of last year's production with new reserves. Even so, not all energy is equal. The stuff Exxon is using to fill its pipeline will be harder to extract and of lower value to investors. 
 Exxon still deserves applause for replenishing its supplies. The 100 percent figure arguably understates Exxon's achievement, since it is based on restrictive Securities and Exchange Commission assumptions about oil prices. The oil giant's own figures give a replacement ratio of 133 percent, beating its own 10-year average of 112 percent. 
 And clearing the crucial 100 percent hurdle by S.E.C. standards should be child's play in 2010. With reserves of more than two billion barrels of oil equivalent, Exxon's latest acquisition, XTO Energy, will replace more than a year of Exxon's output at a stroke.
 The bigger concern for Exxon will be the nature of these new reserves. On the bright side Exxon is steering away from capricious developing nations, meaning fewer political headaches. Recent reserve additions have been in politically placid areas, notably Canada and Australia.
 But economic risks may offset fewer political ones. Discoveries of oil that is easy to extract and refine are failing to keep pace with output. The barrels taking their place may be tougher or more costly to reach, and therefore less profitable. 
 Hopes are high that cleaner-burning natural gas will grow in popularity. The trouble is that gas still trades at a discount to its liquid cousin crude, especially in the United States, where it is worth about half the price of a barrel of oil. Liquids, about 57 percent of Exxon's reserves 10 years ago, are now just half, according to IHS Herold. And squeezing energy from oil sands, an increasingly important source for Exxon, is often economical only when oil trades above $60 a barrel. Conventional wells are generally profitable at just half that level. 
 Exxon has done well in replacing reserves. But investors would be wise to focus on the nature, as well as the number, of Exxon's replacement barrels.
 No Van Buren
 Several American states have a variant of Greek flu. While they don't have imbalances on the scale afflicting Greece, some states' weak fiscal management has been badly exposed by the downturn. Defaults aren't unthinkable. But as with the European Union's backing for Greece, the federal government would probably ride to the rescue. 
 States in America are far more economically integrated than the euro zone economies, where a lower degree of integration means major imbalances can develop. For instance, during the boom, wage costs in Greece and Spain grew much more rapidly than in Germany, without corresponding increases in productivity, making those countries uncompetitive. 
 Something similar happened in the early United States, leading to the defaults of eight states in the downturn of 1837-43. 
 Further, all states except Vermont must balance their budgets, requiring tax increases and spending cuts during recessions, particularly late in recessions when contingency funds have been spent. European Union governments' budgets aren't constrained in that way and are much larger in relation to their economies. Consequently, more significant deficits can accumulate. 
 For instance, Greece's 2009 budget deficit was 13 percent of its gross domestic product, while California's projected 2011 financing gap of $14.4 billion is only 0.8 percent of 2008 gross state product. Even Nevada's projected gap, while 55 percent of the 2010 state budget, is only 1.3 percent of its gross state product in 2008. 
 Nevertheless, states do have serious financial problems, and the fiscal history of some of them, including California, Illinois and New Jersey, is replete with opaque accounting and fanciful budgeting, also seen in Greece. Moreover, states like Michigan and Rhode Island have experienced prolonged recessions. 
 Only one state has defaulted during the 20th century: Arkansas in 1933. But with today's stresses, the potential is there again. The market effect would be severe, particularly as one default could set the dominoes falling. With bank rescues underlining the government's willingness to act, there is a good chance President Obama, unlike President Martin Van Buren in the 1830s, will in the end bail out a failing state.
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An XTO Energy natural gas rig. XTO is Exxon Mobil's latest acquisition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. G. DOMKE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL SANDS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (75%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); EURO ZONE (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (60%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (97%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GREECE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); SPAIN (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



471 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Garage Sales, So to Speak, but With Cachet

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
PAUL DEAN, an investment banker based in Westport, Conn., lives in rooms bulging with art he has collected from an unusual source. Many, if not most, of his collections of paintings, woodblock prints, bronze sculptures and Oriental rugs have come from museums that sold their works through the auction houses he frequents.
 Couture clothes, embossed silver, antique textiles -- almost every category of treasure you might see in a museum -- could someday hang in your own hallway, or grace the center of your dining room table, or be carried or worn by you and you alone. 
 For museums, deaccessioning can be an ethical thicket. Guidelines require that the proceeds of such sales be used only to improve a museum's collection, not for operating expenses like salaries or fuel bills.
 For Mr. Dean and other collectors, however, a museum's decision to sell off an item is an opportunity to acquire a stamp of quality as well as a certain aura. ''By buying stuff that's deaccessioned,'' he said, ''at least you get a feeling for what has been deemed acceptable by curators over the years.'' Noting that there was only so much storage space in museums, he said, ''I bought one painting by a very well-known New Haven painter just because it was too big for the museum.''
 Charles A. Whitaker, who owns the Philadelphia auction house that bears his name, said, ''Provenance is very important with a lot of things.'' 
 Scot M. Levitt, who directs fine arts at Bonhams & Butterfields at their Los Angeles branch, agrees. ''It definitely helps,'' he said. ''Look at the gardening book that went for $20,000 at the Jackie Kennedy auction. People like the idea: something's real and has cachet. After all, it was once thought of as worthy enough to be in a museum -- even if they are deaccessioning it.''
 Mr. Whitaker says he thinks more people are realizing the virtues of deaccessioned property, especially the couture clothes and accessories he sells.
 In the current recession, he said, ''I'm starting to see tony, very well-heeled ladies shopping in the secondary market; it's a recent thing. The lady who could afford to go into Hermes and buy a bag for $25,000 now may rather buy a barely used one here for $6,000.''
 Where might such a bag come from?
 ''From some guy who just said to his wife, 'Sorry, honey, I have to sell some of your things.' ''
 Of course, that would be an item deaccessioned by an unknown individual, which carries with it only the cachet of its brand name.
 More likely, a piece may be desirable because it came out of a certain museum collection. ''An unsophisticated person, looking at the auction catalog, might say, 'Oh, is the museum closing?' '' said Linda Stamm, the owner of Winter Associates, auctioneers in Plainville, Conn. ''But a sophisticated person knows it's a good thing.'' She has sold art and objects from the New Britain Museum, the Wadsworth Atheneum and the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, among others.
 There can certainly be bargains.
 On Feb. 7, Bonhams & Butterfields sold several objects to benefit the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. Among the items was a set of four Charles and Ray Eames chairs with so-called Eiffel Tower bases and the original Herman Miller tags. The set went for $488.
 The items are not always cheap. Bonhams points to another sale in November of a painting by E. Charlton Fortune, a mellow Impressionist work called ''Summer Landscape,'' deaccessioned by the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco. The painting fetched $275,000, sold to benefit new acquisitions, according to the news release.
 In Philadelphia, Mr. Whitaker points to his auction scheduled for April 9-10, which will feature textiles and couture clothes straight from the International Fine Arts College Historical Costume Museum in Miami. Like what?
 ''There is a nice group of Pucci garments and several Diors,'' reads a Web advertisement for the sale, ''including one from the fabled pre-Castro Havana department store El Encanto.'' 
 Whitaker's has also sold items from the collections of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York and the Indianapolis Museum of Art, whose Web site features a very public list of the things it is deaccessioning, including medallions that are being sold through Presidential Coin and Antique Company, auctioneers in Clifton, Va.
 While some of the items being sold may go for a (relative) song -- like the Eames chairs or a 16th-century Turkish embroidered silk wall hanging that sold for $600 at Whitaker's not long ago -- others fetch high prices. A 1921 Paul Poiret dress with black and white print wrap over a beige silk slip dress, just the thing to wear to an important opening, went for $13,000 in Philadelphia; a black Christian Dior cocktail costume from 1948 broke $40,000. 
 Important silver, once spotlighted in a museum's burglar-proof glass case, is also deaccessioned and sold at auction, ready to grace the middle of your dining room table.
 But what do you do with the antique Japanese chain mail helmet and matching gauntlets -- woven metal basted to blue material -- scheduled for sale on March 8 at Winter Associates? The items come from a Connecticut museum, said Ms. Stamm, whose arrangement with this particular museum precludes mention of its name in advertising. The chain mail has an accession number, which means the museum had formally accepted it into its collection; Ms. Stamm does not know if it has ever been exhibited.
 ''You know, museums specialized in having unusual things,'' Ms. Stamm said, addressing the issue of what one would do with the helmet and gloves. ''I can picture the helmet on a wig stand on top of a cabinet, surrounded by Oriental scrolls or woodblock prints.''
 Mr. Dean, the Connecticut collector, is getting ready to downsize himself, moving to a 3,000-square-foot house from his current 6,500-square-foot one.
 What will happen to all his artwork?
 ''We'll be deaccessioning some of it,'' he said, with a chuckle. ''Some we will give to a museum.''
 And they can deaccession it all over again. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A CLOSER LOOK: Charles Williams, a collector, inspecting a Baluch rug at Bonhams & Butterfields in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AXEL KOESTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PRIZED PIECES: Accessories that belonged to the actress Joan Crawford, above, and an antique table, right, are desirable to some collectors in part because they were once part of museum collections. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLES A. WHITAKER AUCTION CO.
 LESLIE HINDMAN AUCTIONEERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); PAINTING (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); HAUTE COUTURE (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); ETHICS (75%); TEXTILES (71%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



472 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Eight States Have Shortchanged Pensions, Study Finds

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Eight states have been given failing scores for their pension management under a new grading system developed by the Pew Center on the States, which also found a $1 trillion gap between what all 50 states have promised their workers and what they have set aside. 
 The Pew center said on Wednesday that Alaska, Colorado, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, New Jersey and Oklahoma had, in essence, failed its new test because they made no meaningful progress on keeping their retiree benefit plans sound. The worst case was Illinois, with a $54 billion gap between the cost of the benefits it had promised to pay retirees over the next 30 years and the amount it had set aside. 
 ''Recessions and investment losses played smaller roles in the creation of this problem,'' said Susan K. Urahn, the center's managing director. ''To a significant degree, the $1 trillion gap reflects states' own policy choices and lack of discipline.'' 
 The center based its measurements on data provided by the states as of June 30, 2008 -- the most recent generally available -- so any changes made since then would not have been factored into the scoring. 
 The data also did not capture the worst of the market crash, which occurred in the fall of 2008. Ms. Urahn said that as a result, the $1 trillion figure probably understated the problem. 
 By devising a simple scoring system for state pension funds, the Pew center was adding a new layer to the analysis now done primarily by credit rating agencies like Moody's and Fitch. The agencies have increasingly tried to take stock of public retirement plans when rating how likely each state will be to pay its bonds. 
 Pension plans have grown so large and costly in some places that they can compete with bondholders for scarce state dollars. But ranking them is notoriously difficult because no two state pension systems are identical, and the variations can make comparisons extremely misleading. 
 The Pew center's grading system took into account just a few simple factors, like whether states were making adequate contributions every year; how big any shortfalls were, relative to the size of the state payroll; and whether a state had managed to keep at least 80 cents on hand for every dollar it owed. 
 The center also looked at board effectiveness and the presence of any other retirement benefits, like health care. But it did not assign these factors points in its scoring system. 
 Nor did it try to determine whether some states were investing too aggressively, one of the pension world's hottest controversies. 
 One of the main problems the center found was some states' tendency, in lean years, to add too little money to their pension funds. Workers' benefits kept growing while the contributions stopped. 
 Companies are required by law to put new money into their pension funds each year, but states and local governments are not. Instead, they receive nonbinding instructions from an actuary on how much to contribute. 
 If a state fails to contribute for a number of years, it can eventually fall so far behind that it has little chance of ever catching up. Many states appeared to have reached that point, the center found. The less they pay, the more their actuaries tell them to contribute the following year, and the problem snowballs. 
 In a news conference on Wednesday, Ms. Urahn noted that New Jersey had failed to contribute to its pension fund for more than a decade, and now the recommended yearly amounts had soared far beyond the state's ability to pay. 
 ''It is irresponsible to defer dealing with this problem, because the cost will only go up,'' Ms. Urahn said. ''And in the short term.'' 
 New York State, by contrast, has not strayed far from its actuary's instructions. So even though New York has been through an embarrassing pay-to-play pension scandal, its fund has not fallen behind. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Susan K. Urahn, managing director of the Pew Center on the States, said of pension obligations, ''The cost will only go up.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); BONDS (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (86%); CREDIT BUREAUS (86%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



473 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: The Devil Is in the Details For the Fed's Policy Makers

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ; Jack Healy contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Members of the Federal Reserve's policy-making arm generally concurred that the central bank should eventually tighten monetary policy, but they disagreed on how to raise interest rates and reduce the balance sheet, according to minutes of last month's meeting.
 The Fed's balance sheet, which exceeds $2.2 trillion, ballooned as the central bank bought mortgage-backed securities and Treasury securities starting in 2008, as part of its effort to hold down long-term interest rates and prop up the economy. 
 As a result of the asset purchases, banks hold $1.1 trillion in reserves at the Fed. Policy makers were concerned that if the banks started to make loans from those reserves too quickly, it could lead to inflation.
 The minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee's meeting, released Wednesday, showed agreement that the Fed should use a fairly new tool -- the interest rate on excess reserves, currently 0.25 percent -- when it begins to tighten monetary policy. And despite a dissent from one member, the committee reaffirmed that the sluggish economy meant interest rates would stay low ''for an extended period.''
 The committee did not have a uniform opinion, however, about the timing and sequence of the Fed's tightening. Most members thought the Fed should reduce reserves long before raising interest rates. Some argued that the Fed should drain reserves only after it had decided to raise rates, while a few said the actions should happen simultaneously.
 There was also talk of increasing the discount rate -- the rate at which the Fed directly lends to banks -- as the central bank seeks to normalize lending.
 The Fed also fine-tuned its economic forecast, saying unemployment would be in the range of 9.5 to 9.7 percent in the last part of 2010, a shift from its projection of 9.3 to 9.7 percent in November (the unemployment rate is now 9.7 percent). The committee also indicated that prices might rise slightly faster than expected. 
 As the Fed looks to drain reserves, the committee discussed several possible tools, notably repurchase agreements, in which the Fed sells assets with an agreement to buy them back later at a higher price, and term deposits, similar to certificates of deposit, for bank reserves.
 Members of the committee debated two measures -- redeeming Fed-held securities as they mature or are prepaid, without reinvesting the proceeds, and selling the securities it holds before they mature -- that would reduce bank reserves and shrink the balance sheet. But officials have signaled that those measures will have to be taken cautiously.
 Most committee members said gradually selling assets ''could be helpful'' in shrinking the balance sheet, but some members were concerned that the actions ''could cause market disruptions and have adverse implications for the economic recovery.''
 Several committee members said the Fed should begin asset sales soon and carry out the process over several years. Others suggested adjusting the pace of sales depending on the strength of the recovery.
 James F. O'Sullivan, chief economist for MF Global, said the Fed appeared to be waiting for clearer signals that unemployment was subsiding before taking action.
 ''As you start to see clearer improvement in the labor market, it won't be long before they start shrinking the monetary base and raising interest rates,'' he said.
 A separate report released Wednesday offered signs of stability in the housing sector. The Commerce Department said builders broke ground on homes at an annual rate of 591,000 in January, up 2.8 percent from a month earlier. But a 4.9 percent decline in the number of building permits and a 12.4 percent drop in the pace of completed houses illustrated the fragility of a recovery in the housing market. 
 The rate of home building was a 21 percent gain over January 2009, when the economy shed more than 700,000 jobs and markets were still floundering.
 Some analysts said the slide in permits suggested the housing market was still struggling, and they noted huge supplies of previously owned homes were reducing construction demand. 
 ''There are still massive headwinds,'' said Joshua Shapiro, an economist for MFR. ''Prices haven't come down far enough, and people are still quite leery. The unemployment's rate's about 10 percent. It's going to be a very slow recovery for housing.''
 Some economists worry the demand for housing could tumble if borrowing rates veer higher as the government and Federal Reserve wind down programs to support mortgage and longer-term lending markets. Average rates on a 30-year mortgage are 4.9 percent, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. 
 Real estate agents and home sellers are also concerned that interest could wane when an $8,000 tax credit for home buyers expires in April. 
 In an encouraging sign for the manufacturing sector, the Federal Reserve reported Wednesday that industrial production increased 0.9 percent in January from a month earlier, solidifying beliefs that factories were restocking their inventories as the economy recovered.
 Much of the growth came from a 3.2 percent monthly gain in consumer products and a 2 percent gain in production of materials, while production of business equipment and construction supplies each fell.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Building a home in Phoenix. A federal report on Wednesday said housing starts rose in January, a sign of stability in the sector. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: Housing Construction New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (92%); MONETARY POLICY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); DIVESTITURES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



474 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1772 words

HEADLINE: Broker? Adviser? And What's the Difference?

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
THE Great Recession has intensified a long-running debate: who is better able to look out for your money, a broker or an independent adviser?
 Now that the shock of last year's losses has worn off, many investors are reconsidering what their financial professionals did -- or failed to do -- for them. At the same time, many brokers are trying to refocus themselves as advisers. Fed by the discontented, the debate has taken on a new urgency. 
 At the center of the discussion are business practices and regulatory guidelines that are rarely understood by the client and often blurred in practice. Brokers are governed by the ''suitability rule,'' which requires them to have ''reasonable grounds for believing that the recommendation is suitable,'' according to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Registered financial advisers are supposed to adhere to a higher standard -- ''fiduciary responsibility,'' an ethical and legal requirement that the investor's best interest comes first, not the adviser's own financial gain. 
 The conventional view of the two camps goes like this: the brokers at the big firms have access to every product imaginable, but may be pressured to sell you one of them and earn more if they do. They are not obligated to get you the best price for what they advise you to buy or sell -- or even to be free of conflicts. 
 The independent investment advisers proudly promote their independence and lack of conflicts. If their clients feel that the fiduciary responsibility was not met, they have legal recourse through the state courts. Brokers counter that the advisers lack the infrastructure and support of a big firm that would protect clients in the event of irregularities in their accounts or with their advisers. 
 In practice, though, the two standards seem to confuse investors. Congress is now considering a provision that could alleviate some of this confusion by requiring brokers to act in their clients' best interest. ''I don't know if more than 10 to 20 percent of my clients understand the difference,'' said Susan Fulton, president of FBB Capital Partners, a fee-only adviser outside Washington. ''The investment advisory and brokerage businesses don't make it clear.''
 Adding to the confusion is that the difference between a broker and an adviser is not always black and white. Consider Shawn Rubin and Kelly Campbell, money managers at two very different firms.
 Mr. Rubin, a managing director in the wealth management group at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney in New York, has thick binders lining one wall of his office. Each contains information on a client -- mortgages, life insurance, property and casualty policies, wills, tax returns, charitable giving. The last section contains investment breakdowns, the only part of the binder he is paid to oversee, as a broker. 
 ''Ninety percent of my time is spent on things I'm not compensated on,'' he said, sitting in a modest office that gives little indication that he manages more than $800 million for 50 wealthy clients. ''I want to be a trusted adviser, the chief financial officer for my clients. You end up doing a lot more than just financial stuff.'' 
 Mr. Campbell, in contrast, is an independent adviser in Fairfax, Va. His business model is mixed: 60 to 70 percent of it is fee-based, he estimated, and the rest comes from commissions for selling products. This would seem to violate the standard of fiduciary responsibility, but the way Mr. Campbell sees it, he has one foot in each camp, and there is no conflict.
 ''Having the ability to do both is extremely important,'' he said. ''I've been very clear about this. I say this is the piece on which we'll be charging you a fee, and this is the part where we'll charge you a commission.''
 So Mr. Rubin, the broker, acts like the head of the family office; Mr. Campbell, the fee-based adviser, occasionally sells commission-based products. They render the traditional definitions obsolete.
 Most registered investment advisers started at brokerage firms, and many left, they say, because they grew tired of the conflicts of interest. This trend is accelerating, says Schwab Adviser Services, which acts as a custodian for $590 billion in assets managed by 6,000 advisers. It said 2009 was its best year for signing up new advisers, with 172 new teams and $13 billion in assets. 
 The big brokerage firms, meanwhile, scoff. ''I've read that advisers are leaving here at record levels, but in the fourth quarter we had historically low attrition levels among our financial advisers,'' said Sallie L. Krawcheck, president of Bank of America Global Wealth and Investment Management. She reeled off the advantages to being with a big firm, like continuing education for brokers and products and loans offered by other parts of the firm. 
 ''The business has gone through brokerage to investment management to wealth management,'' she said. ''Now clients want us to take it more broadly than that.''
 What may matter more than the array of services is the mind-set of the adviser. When a broker tells a client to buy or sell something, the suitability rule does not mean the broker has to be free of conflicts of interest. After all, the broker's salary is ultimately paid by the brokerage firm, which has various products to sell. But brokerage firms say they are trying to eradicate that appearance of conflict.
 ''A real important piece is that compensation never be slanted to selling our own product,'' said Patrick O'Connell, vice president at Ameriprise Financial, a brokerage firm. ''We're in the process of completing an acquisition of Columbia Management. If an adviser was paid more to use a Columbia fund and not a Fidelity fund, which is also on our platform, that would be problematic.''
 But others still hold to the traditional distinctions. ''There are people who are very successful brokers who do a great job every day,'' said Kemp Stickney, chief fiduciary officer at Wilmington Trust, a century-old fee-based trust company. ''But if you think about it from an investment point of view, the way a lot of brokerages work is they sell you a bond out of their inventory. Because we're not an investment banking firm, we have to ask for bids from four, five, six different firms before we buy a bond for our clients.'' (Ms. Krawcheck says the array of products that Bank of America keeps in inventory is a benefit to clients.)
 Advisers like Mark Matson, chief executive of Matson Money, said brokerage firms should get out of the advisory business altogether. ''The problem is they hold themselves out as offering advice and value-added services,'' he said. ''They should just tell clients, 'I work for a brokerage and I'm going to suggest some things, and you have to make the decision if they're right for you.' '' 
 This is where the fiduciary standard gets invoked. Rooted in trust law, that standard means that an adviser has to act impartially and solely for the benefit of the client, avoiding conflicts of interest and self-dealing.
 ''It's never about us; it's about our clients and their interests,'' said R. Hugh Magill, chief fiduciary officer at Northern Trust. ''They entrust their assets to us for management. But the more subtle distinction is they entrust their family to our care.''
 Asked how an adviser who leaves a brokerage can become a fiduciary, Mr. Magill said: ''It takes time to learn these things. Are they going to pick up 'Fiduciary Responsibilities for Dummies?' You learn it by example.''
 During the depths of the financial crisis last year, Mr. Matson, a formerbroker who speaks of fiduciary responsibility with the zeal of the converted, took that responsibility to an extreme. He resigned from about 250 accounts because he felt the clients were doing things not in their best interests -- namely trying to time the market. 
 ''This is what the average adviser can't do,'' said Mr. Matson, who manages $2.4 billion. ''A client has a $1 million account that has gone down 30 percent, and he says, 'I feel uncertain and want to be in cash.' The adviser knows you can't time the market, but he says if I don't do what he says, I'm going to lose this account and the $10,000 fee. That adviser has a wife, family and expenses. He can't say no.''
 But many investors still select their advisers -- whether at a brokerage firm or on their own -- based on the advisers' skill and personality, according to a new study by the Oechsli Institute, a research group.
 ''The most important factors in selecting the adviser is the reputation of the individual and the impression that person makes in terms of professionalism and competence,'' said Matt Oechsli, the chief executive. ''The trust you have for the firm goes up if you trust the adviser; if you don't trust your adviser you don't trust the firm. This is the first time this has been inverted.''
 The Oechsli report, ''The New World Adviser,'' found that clients with $250,000 to $10 million in investments were more worried about clear, timely communication and quick problem resolution than about investment performance. A majority of respondents on the lower end of the investment range said they did not believe their adviser was doing a great job, it found, and were looking for a better option.
 That may be heartening to the registered investment adviser who has left a big firm to go solo. But what it really means is that the onus is on the individual adviser. Someone like Mr. Rubin, whose platform was switched from Citigroup to Morgan Stanley when Smith Barney became a joint venture last year, understands the importance of service over brand. 
 ''Our goal is staying ahead of what the client needs,'' Mr. Rubin said. ''When they write check 180 and we know they have 200 checks, we send them another book. That service makes them more inclined to put large amounts of money here on which we generate our compensation.''
 Of course, some investors do not have enough money to attract the interest of a top adviser. It should not come as a surprise that the level of personalized service gets ratcheted up with wealth level. Mr. Rubin's clients have a minimum of $5 million with him, while Mr. Campbell's clients have $1.5 million to $2 million. Most registered investment advisers require a minimum investment of $1 million, though some will accept clients with $500,000.
 ''If you have less than $250,000, you're not going to get that first-class level of service,'' Mr. Oechsli said. ''You'll probably get a review once a year, quarterly contact. There's nothing wrong with that.''
 That means the one looking out for your interests may have to be you.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA) (F1)
 BIG HAS BENEFITS: Sallie Krawcheck defends Bank of America's offerings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CHARITIES (73%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (73%); ETHICS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INSURANCE POLICIES (60%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (60%); LIFE INSURANCE (60%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



475 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: It Won't Line a Bird Cage, but It's Still News

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It seemed like the end of an era to loyal readers when yet another venerable publication, a Connecticut political journal, bit the dust this month.
 The difference was that the deceased wasn't some old media dinosaur, but Connecticut Local Politics, a blog offering views from left and right, which ran from Jan. 17, 2005, to Feb. 3, 2010. That's not quite the longevity of The Hartford Courant, which dates back to 1764, but it's a small sign of the times that it felt like the passing of something with a bit of history.
 And no one was thinking in terms of eras, but still it felt kind of momentous just a week earlier when a more high-powered political journal was born, The Connecticut Mirror, a nonprofit online site on state government and politics, backed by $1.8 million from seven foundations. 
 There's nothing blindingly novel in online political journals coming and going. NewJerseyNewsroom.com, started primarily by former Star-Ledger journalists, is another model of entrepreneurial online journalism. But for those making the case that what's busy being born in new media journalism is as valuable -- or more so -- than what's busy dying, Connecticut is a particularly intriguing petri dish. 
 The Mirror, which has an editor and four reporters and money to last three years, ranks with The Texas Tribune as a trailblazing not-for-profit site reporting on state politics and governance. A longtime Connecticut journalist, Paul Bass, has become one of the most watched exemplars of scrappy, low-budget, high-impact local journalism -- based on reporting, not attitude and opinion -- through his New Haven Independent and Valley Independent Sentinel in the Naugatuck Valley.
 Connecticut liberal blogs were ahead of the game in 2006 in being huge players in Ned Lamont's primary victory over Senator Joseph I. Lieberman. Despite the semipro sounding name (the current editor, Christine Stuart, says don't blame her, she inherited it) CT News Junkie is a model for an energetic, ad hoc Capitol bureau supplementing the shrunken Hartford press corps.
 Mark Pazniokas, Capitol bureau chief of The Mirror, was a political reporter for The Courant before being one of 100 employees there laid off a year ago. The Mirror, he said, can't break a story and demand public attention the way The Courant can, but, ''At some point you have to stop worrying about what's happening with newspapers and focus on how you can continue to do good journalism.''
 Mr. Bass began in September 2005 with $80,000 mostly from institutional donors and no staff but himself; he now has a $450,000 budget for two nonprofit publications with six full-time and five part-time reporters plus freelancers.
 His publications specialize in relentlessly local and interactive coverage both large bore (police harassment of Latinos, foreclosures, a series on schools that helped lead to a nationally followed reform drive), small bore (video of the winner of the paczki-eating contest at Eddy's Bake Shop in Ansonia) and combinations of the two (a report on who cleans up the blood, after a murder in a low-income area.) 
 Dan Kennedy, who follows new-media journalism, says Connecticut is a particularly vibrant example of how entrepreneurial online journalists are filling a lot of the holes left by the decline of newspapers.
 ''I'm going to tell you the glass is exactly half full, no higher, but no lower either,'' he said.
 Mr. Bass is far more upbeat. 
 ''If your beat is the funeral parlor, you just think people are dying,'' he said. ''If you step outside, you see just as many people are being born. We're returning to an era when we get news from more than one source again, human beings, rather than one monopoly newspaper sending out as few people as possible so it can make as much money as possible. It's a new golden age.''
 Maybe, but Connecticut Local Politics died, according to those familiar with it, because it became too much for its creator to handle and because it got sued twice -- something a corporation can battle but few individuals can. Mr. Bass pays starting reporters $30,000 a year and veterans not much more. That's O.K. if you are in your 20s, but a tough economic road otherwise. A new fragmented media won't create the shared civic conversation that a Mike Royko or Jimmy Breslin once could. There's no proven financing model to guarantee that any of this, which for now amounts to perhaps 500 jobs, has legs. It's not going to cover the war in Iraq.
 But as Mr. Bass points out, the good old days aren't coming back for autos. They're not coming back for steel. Good or lousy, they're not coming back for newspapers either. He figures that in the mix-and-match world emerging, there's plenty of room for old and new.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Bass runs The New Haven Independent and The Valley Independent Sentinel in the Naugatuck Valley, two Web sites that cover local news events both large and small. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); WRITERS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); LIBERAL MEDIA (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%)

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



476 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: Humana's Work Force to Shrink by 1,400

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky. 

 BODY:
The insurance company Humana said on Wednesday that it would cut about 2,500 jobs to adjust to a smaller enrollment, but would add 1,100 positions in growth areas. 
 Humana's Medicare enrollment slid 24 percent last year, to 3.4 million, while its commercial enrollment fell 6 percent to roughly the same amount. Areas like medical cost containment and pharmacy management expanded, however.
 The net loss of 1,400 jobs amounts to 5 percent of its work force. The reductions will come mostly from attrition, outsourcing and job eliminations. Humana issues commercial insurance and Medicare Advantage plans, administers Medicaid coverage and provides coverage through the military's Tricare program.
 The changes are not expected to affect Humana's 2010 earnings guidance of $5.15 to $5.35 a share.
 Humana said it had to align its size with its membership. The insurer's total enrollment fell 11 percent last year, to about 10.3 million people.
 Other health insurers have also announced job cuts in the last several quarters. Insurers have struggled during the recession with enrollment losses in their employer-based plans, as companies cut jobs.
 Aetna has cut 1,250 jobs since November. WellPoint and Cigna have also cut more than 1,000 jobs since the recession started.
 Humana said the reduction would help it create ''a more efficient, agile infrastructure.'' The company earned $250.7 million, or $1.48 a share, in the fourth quarter of 2009 on $7.63 billion in revenue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); MEDICAID (58%)

COMPANY: CIGNA CORP (90%); WELLPOINT INC (55%)

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (90%); WLP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



477 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Rebound in Antiques Market

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

 BODY:
LAST month's series of major antiques shows and sales in New York City signaled growing strength in a market that was hit hard over the previous year, according to dealers, show managers and others in the field. But good buys still abound, especially in 18th- and 19th-century English and American furniture. 
 The Winter Antiques Show, the antiques market's premier annual event, occupied the Park Avenue Armory for 10 days in late January, with rich offerings of fine furniture, folk art, decorative objects, arms and armor, jewelry, paintings and sculpture. The show was the centerpiece of two weeks of related events, including three other antiques shows in town and the year's important Americana sales at Sotheby's and Christie's in New York. 
 Who needs a 16th-century suit of armor, a 20th-century sculpture that looks like a dandelion, a 19th-century cow weathervane or an 18th-century secretary? Or a new one anyway?
 Apparently, this year, after a disastrous 2009, a lot of people. Hugh Jackman, Jon Bon Jovi (with his decorator), Martha Stewart and the mayor were shopping the floors of the various New York fairs, dealers and organizers reported. Stephanie Seymour Brant, now separated from Peter Brant, the publisher and paper magnate, kept the staff at the armory an hour past closing on Jan. 24 as she bought jewelry, according to Catherine Sweeney Singer, executive director of the Winter Antiques Show.
 Attendance at the show was up roughly 20 percent, to at least 22,000. Sales were strong throughout its 10-day run, as opposed to what is usually just an opening-night rush, and major purchases were made as the show ended on Jan. 31 at 6 p.m. 
 ''People are tired of being frugal,'' said Peter Finer, an English dealer in arms and armor. He said he sold more than $1.5 million in goods at the show. (A good suit of armor will put you back substantially more than a good wool suit: generally in the low six figures.)
 ''There was a spontaneity in the buying that hadn't existed last year,'' said Allan Katz, an Americana dealer exhibiting at the American Antiques Show at the Metropolitan Pavilion in Chelsea.
 In the last 12 months, antiques sales slipped, prices softened and inventory became scarce as collectors -- buyers and sellers -- dropped out to avoid economic setbacks. Decorators, a vital source of revenue to dealers, were at a standstill as the housing market collapsed and people learned to love what they already had. 
 Small was big, said several dealers, as people concentrated on paintings and decorative accessories to refresh their homes, rather than redoing rooms with major furniture or furnishing new houses. 
 The slow sales of last year, however, have made dealers' inventories particularly interesting and full now. And collectors' reluctance to sell in a weak market has made great pieces scarce, but strong performers when they appear. (There is the relative reassurance of a venerable-looking object as an investment haven, in contrast to a technology stock or bond.)
 The antiques market's eagerness to survive has made prices for much midtier material very attractive. Dealers said prices were generally at least 20 to 30 percent lower than two years ago. 
 And, as Alan Granby, of Hyland Granby in Hyannis Port, Mass., maritime art and antiques specialists exhibiting at the armory, said, ''Midrange things can still be the best in their field.''
 Categories that are victims of changes in taste are especially well priced, even for outstanding pieces. The enthusiasm for modern design among younger buyers and the graying of the market for older and formal genres have produced unexpected opportunities in traditional pieces, which typically are too expensive for first-time collectors. 
 ''Collectors are going after A-level material,'' John Smiroldo, founder and publisher of Antiques and Fine Art, a bimonthly magazine based in Watertown, Mass., said of the auction and show scenes. ''But you can get A-minuses for pennies of what it will be trading for in four or five years. As far as I'm concerned, American furniture is free right now -- for killer stuff. And high-style English furniture is down, down, down.''
 Clinton Howell, a New York dealer who specializes in 18th-century English furniture, said of this year's Winter Antiques Show, which was his eighth, ''It was the worst show I've ever had.'' 
 But Mr. Howell, if not sanguine, was also not discouraged, saying: ''All of this is cycles. The nature of changing taste is very good for markets. In the long run, people see what's out there, on a broad basis. If you stop 10 people in the street, they might have an opinion about modernism. When that's over, English furniture might take its place. Or something else.''
 The move toward eclectic interiors, and away from period styles, has made collecting and furnishing an across-the-board game. Dealers say individualistic pieces from any specialty are increasing in popularity over previous generations' scholarly additions to narrow collections. The decorative adventurousness that led people into 20th-century modern material could now reasonably lead them back through overlooked earlier eras.
 ''Visually arresting objects, of fantastic quality, I feel is the trend with new collectors,'' said Peter Petrou, an English dealer at the show.
 Where are the less-visited, underappreciated or out-of-favor corners of value in the present market? According to participants in January's events, they include tall-case clocks, Windsor chairs, slant-front desks, quilts, maritime photographs, carpets, like kilims and turkistans, antiquities, Polynesian ethnographic art, beds and furniture made of exotic woods. 
 Barbara Pollack, an Americana dealer based in Highland Park, Ill., reiterated what most good dealers regard as the golden rule when considering an antique. ''First find something that excites you,'' she said at the armory last month. ''If you don't, hold on to the money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WELL SUITED: Peter Finer, an armor dealer, said he took in $1.5 million at the Winter Antiques Show in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PAINTING (89%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SALES FIGURES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%); JON BON JOVI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



478 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Judge Denies a Dismissal In a Suit Against MBIA

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
A New York judge refused on Wednesday to dismiss a lawsuit that claims MBIA took illegal steps to cut the chances that it would have to pay off on bond insurance policies. 
 The suit, brought by the Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, UBS and 15 more of the world's largest financial companies, challenges MBIA's move a year ago to split its insurance business into two companies after it sustained record losses in the mortgage market and lost its top credit rating.
 MBIA created the National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation, which assumed $5.4 billion of the MBIA Insurance Corporation's assets and its public finance obligations. MBIA's structured finance guarantees, including those related to mortgage securities, remained the obligation of the MBIA Insurance Corporation.
 The split, which was approved by the New York State insurance superintendent at that time, Eric Dinallo, was intended to allow MBIA to get back in the business of insuring municipal bonds, the company said.
 Marc Kasowitz, a lawyer for MBIA, said the company would appeal the decision, which was made by Justice James Yates of New York State Supreme Court. 
 In May 2009, 18 financial institutions filed suit to overturn the split, arguing that MBIA had inappropriately stripped assets from the MBIA Insurance Corporation, making it insolvent.
 MBIA stripped $5 billion of assets out of its MBIA Insurance Corporation division to finance a new unit amid ''an ongoing financial crisis that has made it increasingly likely that MBIA Insurance will have to pay out billions'' of dollars, according to the complaint filed in May in State Supreme Court in Manhattan.
 The decision to move assets from the unit and ''render it effectively insolvent was a blatant attempt to enrich MBIA Inc. and its management at the expense of MBIA Insurance and its policyholders,'' Vince DiBlasi, a lawyer who represents the group at Sullivan & Cromwell, said in an e-mail statement when the suit was filed.
 The case is one of several lawsuits filed by funds over MBIA's restructuring.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (93%); LITIGATION (92%); JUDGES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); APPEALS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); APPROVALS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%)

COMPANY: MBIA INSURANCE CORP (95%); MBIA INC (94%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%)

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (94%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (95%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



479 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL-BUSINESS GUIDE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: For an Entrepreneur, A Board to Turn To Simply for Advice

BYLINE: By ADRIANA GARDELLA

 BODY:
Jim Bourdon, chief executive of Accounting Management Solutions in Waltham, Mass., said his advisory board persuaded him to be more aggressive about jettisoning ineffective consultants and replacing them with star performers. The result? His clients report that his company's consultants are either meeting or exceeding the standards set by Mr. Bourdon and his team. 
 Other business owners credit their advisory boards with cutting costs; helping with product development; introducing them to valuable clients, investors, and suppliers; and eliminating the sense of isolation that can come with running your own business. Most crucial, an advisory board makes a chief executive answerable to a third party. 
 An advisory board should not be confused with a board of directors. Unlike directors, advisory board members have no authority over your company. They are simply there to offer advice that you can take or dismiss. They do not have the legally imposed fiduciary duties of directors. 
 You can set up and manage your own board or outsource the job for a fee. Bob Arciniaga, managing partner of Advisory Board Architects in Greenwood Village, Colo., estimates that it takes 20 to 30 hours a quarter to manage a board effectively. Consider outsourcing if you know you lack the time or discipline to commit to your board. If you are dedicated to making it work on your own, here are some guidelines. 
 HAVE AN OBJECTIVE The most successful boards are formed with a specific goal in mind. Gary Silverman, a certified financial planner in Wichita Falls, Tex., formed his board strictly for the purpose of getting input on his new business plan. Mr. Silverman had been in business for 15 years when he decided his initial plan needed to be revamped, largely to address the fate of his three-employee company after his retirement. 
 He had always envisioned bringing in a recent college graduate to replace him. Not so fast, said an advisory board member, Marilyn Rumsey, an executive coach and one of three independent-minded friends Mr. Silverman had chosen for his board. Ms. Rumsey urged Mr. Silverman to think about recruiting an experienced replacement. It is now written into the business plan that he will consider a more tested successor. 
 BE OPEN TO CHALLENGES Mr. Silverman acknowledges that his advisers are all friends. But, he said, ''they are the kind of friends who have no problem telling me when I'm being stupid.'' In addition to making sure that your advisers will not be mere rubber stamps, seek out those who fill knowledge gaps within your company or your own background. 
 Janice Shade, president of True Body Products in Richmond, Vt., wanted advisers who rounded out her skills. Ms. Shade, who has an M.B.A. but had never run a company, was glad to have chosen a human resources consultant as one of her five board members when it came time to make painful layoffs. He helped her with everything from breaking the news to handling unemployment insurance. 
 TURN TO A NETWORK Scott Nolan and Stason Strong, co-founders of the social networking start-up Pounse.com, began their search for advisers by taking inventory of their contacts who possessed skills or expertise they lacked, eventually settling on a ranked wish list of eight (most experts agree that small-business advisory boards of more than six are not productive). 
 The first person on the list, a high-level software company executive with strong connections in the venture capital world, agreed to join what would become a two-member board. The second adviser is a Pounse.com member and visual effects expert who approached the founders based on his passion for their concept. ''We really wanted advisers who would be involved,'' Mr. Nolan said. ''Lots of people serve on 10 boards at once -- and lots of start-ups just want to look like they're tapped in by being associated with big names.'' 
 If there are no potential advisers among your current contacts, or their networks, you may strike gold in less likely places. James Jean-Claude, chief executive of Are-You-Cool Inc., a market research firm in Washington, cold-called an important adviser after reading a newspaper article about him. Most business owners, however, begin their search for advisory board members closer to home. The importance of working with people you trust cannot be underestimated. You will be sharing personal information about your business, and maybe even yourself. 
 PUT IT IN WRITING Though advisory boards are more informal than boards of directors, they should still be governed by written agreements. It is vital to consult with your lawyer before forming and working with your board. But generally, board members should sign a nondisclosure agreement, and it is wise to draft a charter that outlines your board's responsibilities and logistics, such as meeting frequency, expected time commitment and compensation, if any. 
 Each board member, by name, should also receive written indemnification. Bob Arciniaga of Advisory Board Architects notes that even though advisory board members have no fiduciary duty, they can open themselves up to potential liability. ''If someone wants to sue the bigger names and wallets, they can be dragged in,'' he said, especially if you list your advisers on your Web site.
 PAY FOR THE ADVICE Your board members will not be in it for the money. For many, being a part of a board offers mentoring, networking and social opportunities that make the experience worthwhile. It is still, however, a good idea to compensate them. At the very least, you should cover any expenses they incur to attend meetings, and provide meals when you get together. Many experts advise going beyond that, suggesting that you pay each member a per-meeting fee that might range from a few hundred to a few thousand dollars. 
 Mr. Bourdon, of Accounting Management Solutions, says he believes that the commitment of his current board can be at least partly attributed to the fact that he pays each member a small sum, which he describes as a stipend. Years ago, Mr. Bourdon formed a less successful board. Board meeting no-shows were common, and Mr. Bourdon often canceled meetings himself. ''The old board wasn't paid, so I wasn't sending the right signals in terms of how important I considered it to be,'' he said. 
 Many chief executives compensate advisory board members with stock. If you choose this route, it is important to talk to your accountant so you are sure to account for the stock transfer properly and to provide for an exit plan should your advisers want to sell their stock. Your accountant will also be able to advise you on potential pitfalls like conflict-of-interest issues that stock ownership might create for your board members who work for other companies.
 Quick Tips:
 Be specific about what you want the board to accomplish.
 Surround yourself with people who will challenge you.
 Offer board members written indemnification.
 Compensate your board members to foster their commitment-and yours. 
 Recommended Resources:
 A blog about advisory boards. 
 Advisory board tips from SCORE. 
 A Web lesson from SCORE. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James Bourdon, chief of Accounting Management Solutions, took his advisers' counsel to dismiss some unproductive workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUSINESS PLANS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); VERMONT, USA (77%); COLORADO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



480 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Wealth Gap For Schools In New Jersey Is the Highest

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Nearly one in five public schools in New Jersey has almost no poor students, the highest percentage of any state, according to a new report.
 The report found that at 18 percent of New Jersey schools, or 402 schools, less than 5 percent of the students were poor enough to qualify for free or reduced-price lunches. The report found 2,817 such schools nationwide. 
 In addition, the report, by the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, a conservative policy group in Washington that supports school choice, found that about one-quarter of New Jersey's white and Asian students attended the 402 wealthy schools, compared with 2 percent of black students and 3 percent of Hispanic students. 
 New York had 230 public schools, or 6 percent of its schools, in which less than 5 percent of the students were poor, according to the report. In Connecticut, there were 178 such schools, or 17 percent of its schools, the second highest percentage in the country.
 Derrell Bradford, executive director of Excellent Education for Everyone, a group in Newark that supports school choice, said the report illustrated the need for change. He said that while the state had increased financing for poor districts, it had deprived too many students of the opportunity to attend better-performing schools in wealthier districts.
 ''The state's policies have failed to extend a lifeline to many low-income kids in districts with high numbers of chronically underperforming schools,'' Mr. Bradford said. ''What I find very frustrating is that this state masquerades as one where integration by race and economic opportunity are important. When you look at this study, you realize the reality is 180 degrees away from that.''
 The report comes as school choice advocates in New Jersey are gaining momentum in their effort to expand charter schools, which are publicly financed. They are also pushing to create a voucherlike system in which corporations, in exchange for a tax credit, would donate money to a scholarship fund so poor students could attend private schools or out-of-district public schools that charge tuition.
 Gov. Christopher J. Christie and the acting education commissioner, Bret D. Schundler, have said they favor more school options for parents. On Thursday, the State Assembly is expected to consider legislation that would expand a program started in 2000 that allows one school district per county to take students who live outside the district and to receive state financing for them. 
 Under the new proposal, any district could apply to participate. They could hold lotteries if they received more applicants than the number of spots available.
 In the school district of the Chathams, about 25 miles west of New York City, where less than 1 percent of students are poor and about 90 percent are white, the six schools serve a wealthy community. Many families have moved in for the high-performing schools; enrollment has grown by more than 100 students annually for the past 12 years, to 3,900.
 The superintendent, Jim O'Neill, said he would welcome out-of-district students as long as the Chatham schools had enough classroom space and received financing so that local taxpayers would not have to shoulder the additional cost. Ninety-three percent of the district's $48 million operating budget is supported by local property taxes.
 ''I think one of the opportunities the state has missed as they have looked at trying to help students from low-performing schools is to see if high-performing schools have openings at different grade levels to help diversify populations like mine,'' Mr. O'Neill said. 
 Steve Baker, a spokesman for the New Jersey Education Association, the largest teachers' union in the state, said the union had concerns about starting too many charter schools in a short period of time. And the union is opposed to providing tax credits to corporations for donating money for tuition. 
 ''In essence,'' he said, ''tuition tax credits take public funds and use them to subsidize private education.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); SCHOOL CHOICE (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); FAMILY (69%); TAX LAW (61%); LEGISLATION (60%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



481 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Shares Improve on Growing Signs of a Recovery

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Wall Street investors, buoyed by signs of stability in the housing and manufacturing sectors, seemed optimistic about the speed of economic renewal on Wednesday as worries about mounting debt burdens abroad began to subside.
 A rally in Europe and Asia, spurred by flashes of strength in the global recovery, spilled into United States markets, lifting to stocks of all types, including health care and telecommunications. 
 In addition, a batch of reports offered a snapshot of an economy that was slowly improving but still struggling to return to healthy levels. 
 Critical areas like home construction and industrial production showed signs of recovery, but questions remained about their long-term prospects.
 On Wall Street, stocks climbed modestly. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 0.39 percent, or 40.43 points, to 10,309.24. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.42 percent, or 4.64 points, to 1,099.51, and the technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index was up 0.55 percent, or 12.10 points, to 2,226.29. Health insurers and consumers goods led shares higher.
 Several companies reported better-than-expected earnings on Wednesday, continuing a trend of surprisingly positive results. According to Thomson Reuters, 73 percent of the 393 companies that have reported earnings this year have beat expectations.
 On Wednesday, Deere & Company, the farm equipment maker, said profit climbed 19 percent in the first quarter, leading its stock up 5 percent. Whole Foods Market reported a 79 percent surge in earnings in the quarter and offered a brighter outlook for the year, helping send its shares up 12.55 percent.
 ''The earnings numbers are getting people recharged again,'' said Linda A. Duessel, a strategist at Federated Investors. ''All the concerns are the same -- the worries about overdebted countries and the deficit in the U.S. -- but they seem to be relaxing a little.''
 Concern over the debt crisis facing Greece and other countries on the fringes of Europe appear to have eased a bit. Investors seem satisfied, for now, with a plan by the Continent's finance ministers to pre-empt defaults in countries that are struggling to repay heaps of debt. 
 On Wednesday, traders were encouraged by a report showing that home construction rose 2.8 percent in January -- its highest level in six months -- beating Wall Street expectations. Economists closely watch construction because of the ripple effect it has for the broader economy. A separate report by the Federal Reserve showed that industrial production rose 0.9 percent in January, backed by gains in manufacturing, mining and utilities. That was the first time since August that all three sectors showed gains. 
 A third report indicated that import prices -- a gauge of inflation -- climbed 1.4 percent in January, largely because of a jump in the cost of oil. But prices for finished goods declined, and prices for consumer goods rose only modestly, easing inflation fears.
 The gains for the American stock market followed similar upturns in Europe and Asia.
 In Europe, the CAC-40 in Paris climbed 1.5 percent, the FTSE 100 in London rose 0.6 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt gained 1 percent. Overnight, the Nikkei in Tokyo surged 2.72 percent. 
 Investors have again turned their attention to the underlying strength of the economy in the United States, and on Wednesday, they seemed cautiously optimistic about the pace of recovery.
 ''Out of nowhere, an eerie calm has crept back into the global marketplace,'' David A. Rosenberg, chief economist and strategist for Gluskin Sheff & Associates wrote in a research note on Wednesday. 
 Mr. Rosenberg suggested some momentum might be coming from talk that Republicans may be poised to make gains in Congressional elections in November, after news of retirements by several Democratic lawmakers.
 ''The shifting political winds may be offering investors something positive to chew on,'' Mr. Rosenberg wrote.
 Shares of Toyota fell 2.45 percent, to close at $74.15 even as the Japanese car maker tried to ease concerns about the safety of its vehicles by promising to more quickly disclose defects in the future and announcing measures like a brake-override system.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 20/32, to 99 3/32. The yield rose to 3.73 percent, from 3.66 percent late Tuesday.
 Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INSURANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); IMPORT PRICES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%)

COMPANY: DEERE & CO (67%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (54%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (53%)

TICKER: DE (NYSE) (67%); WFM (NASDAQ) (54%); FII (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (67%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (67%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (54%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (54%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



482 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Plan Pushed On Lending To Students

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
The Obama administration on Wednesday sought to bolster support for its plan to overhaul student lending, attacking banks that oppose it for enjoying ''a free ride from taxpayers for too long.'' 
 In a telephone conference with reporters, Secretary of Education Arne Duncan repeated the administration's assertion that the direct offering of student loans by the federal government, and an end to subsidies to private lenders, would save taxpayers $87 billion over 10 years. The savings would be used to aid early-childhood education, community colleges and needy college students.
 The administration plan passed the House of Representatives last year but has stalled in the Senate. Mr. Duncan said he remained confident that the Senate would pass the measure, which President Obama has called a ''no-brainer.'' 
 But the banks that have offered the most loans, with federal subsidies and guarantees, have hired lobbyists and mounted advertising campaigns, saying the plan would cost jobs and reduce consumer choice. Congressional aides say passage is in peril. 
 Mr. Duncan disputed the assertion that jobs would decline, saying that private companies would receive larger, competitive contracts to service the loans. Taking up the administration's increasingly populist tone, he described the banks opposing the plan in blistering terms.
 He called the loan subsidies ''a sweet deal for banks,'' said ''working Americans pay while bankers get rich'' and singled out Sallie Mae, the largest student lender, for paying executives ''hundreds of millions of dollars in the last decade'' while middle-class Americans faced crushing college debts. 
 Anticipating Mr. Duncan's remarks, a trade group, America's Student Loan Providers, issued a statement questioning the projected savings. The group said its own proposal, in which subsidies would end but the government would pay a set fee for each loan offered by private firms, would save tens of billions while preserving choice and competition. 
 But Mr. Duncan said the industry plan would cost taxpayers $13 billion more over 10 years than the administration proposal, and help fewer students. He also said that because of interruptions in private lending during the financial crisis, direct government loans had surged and that about 2,300 colleges and universities now offered such loans, up from 1,000 three years ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (74%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (73%); CHILDREN (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (57%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%)

COMPANY: SLM CORP (54%)

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); ARNE DUNCAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



483 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Senator Retiring, And Voters, Too, Grow Dismayed

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: HAMMOND, Ind. 

 BODY:
Brent Kruse, a retired railroad conductor, says he is an independent-minded, loosely affiliated Democrat who ''votes for the man, not the party.'' In the last presidential election, he said, he flirted with the idea of casting a ballot for a Republican, Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, before throwing his support behind Barack Obama.
 Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana was part of the reason Mr. Kruse chose Mr. Obama. 
 ''This is a Republican state and he's a Democrat, so that tells you what people think of him,'' said Mr. Kruse, 69. ''He's been a very good man for this state, and I do wish he had stuck it out.''
 Of all the elected officials, political analysts, and party bosses across the country who were stunned by Mr. Bayh's announcement on Monday that he would not seek re-election to a third term, perhaps no group was left more flabbergasted than Mr. Bayh's constituents, particularly here in the working-class towns of northwest and central Indiana that helped make it a blue state -- at least temporarily -- in 2008.
 Now, with Mr. Bayh planning to leave Congress, citing his disillusionment with unyielding partisanship and legislative gridlock, a good bit of disillusionment has settled on Indiana, too.
 ''This shocked me. Honest to God, it did,'' Mr. Kruse said. ''I did not see it coming. And every time we lose a good Democrat, it hurts the system as far as getting anything done.''
 Mr. Bayh, 54, a centrist former governor and son of a former senator, was among those Mr. Obama considered for vice president. He campaigned across the state for Mr. Obama, introducing him time and again, and the personal touch from such a respected local figure seemed to help turn the tide for the Democrats.
 What will happen here in the next presidential cycle is anyone's guess now, as is the more pressing Congressional primary this spring. 
 ''It's very disappointing that someone so dedicated has reached the point that he's disenchanted with politics,'' said Vivian Sallie, 59, a television executive in South Bend, who described herself as a longtime supporter of Mr. Bayh. ''I feel let down by the situation our country is in. I feel that it's our state's loss and a loss for the country.''
 JoAnna Clay, a homemaker in South Bend, added: ''It's a really sad situation. He was the voice for a lot of us, and you got the feeling that he really cared. I think there are not many people in Washington who really care, and that's the problem. They'd rather fight. But he got tired of fighting.''
 ''There's definitely some discouragement here,'' she said. 
 Kate Blakely, a cafe manager from Mishawaka, struggled with the timing of the announcement, just days before Mr. Bayh was scheduled to film a campaign commercial at her workplace. 
 ''One day he was coming, and the next thing we heard, everything was off,'' said Ms. Blakely, 25. ''It just seemed kind of random.''
 And Tyler Bergin, who works in sales for a cellular company, said he also found it hard to accept Mr. Bayh's timing. 
 ''I can't understand why he stepped down,'' Mr. Bergin said. ''It's unfortunate. If he didn't want to run again, I guess it's his choice. He doesn't owe us anything.''
 ''But,'' Mr. Bergin, 28, continued, ''it was not a very good strategic move because it leaves the seat open at such a bad time for the Democrats.''
 The filing deadline to qualify for the ballot was Tuesday, and, left with one day to scramble, Democrats failed to submit the petitions needed to qualify for the Senate race, meaning that no Democrat will be on the primary ballot. Instead, party leaders will pick a general-election contender later this year.
 Barrett Berry, the chairman of a nonprofit economic development group in South Bend, said he was troubled that Mr. Bayh's decision did not leave time for anyone to run for the seat. 
 ''I'm going to be loyal, but I am bothered that he didn't give others the opportunity,'' Mr. Berry said, echoing concerns of other Indiana Democrats.
 Meanwhile, five Republicans qualified for the primary, among them former Senator Daniel R. Coats, Mr. Bayh's predecessor.
 Republicans expressed optimism about recapturing a seat in a state that traditionally leans to the right and about possibly adding an Indiana example to a national narrative that shows Democrats struggling to hold on to their majorities in the House and Senate in the 15 months since Mr. Obama's election. 
 ''I had a very positive reaction to his decision,'' said Ben vonBergen, 18, as he sipped coffee with a friend, Mike Houghtaling, 35, who also seemed pleased.
 ''Sometimes I get the impression that elected officials are just trying to hold on to their jobs,'' said Mr. Houghtaling, who works at a camp for underprivileged children in South Bend and describes himself as politically conservative. ''If he really wanted to see change, I'm glad he did something about it'' by not running.
 Mr. Houghtaling said he shared a sense of frustration about Washington and could understand Mr. Bayh's personal dilemma about being an unhappy participant in a dysfunctional system, particularly as Democratic leaders pushed over the past year for big-budget legislation. (Mr. Bayh had grown increasingly isolated as he warned Democratic leaders that costly legislation was bothering independent voters.)
 ''The problem for me,'' Mr. Houghtaling said, ''is that Republicans tax and spend as much as anyone. It's frustrating.''
 For her part, Ms. Clay, 22, said she used to see Mr. Bayh as part of the solution, but not anymore.
 ''True enough, if he felt like nothing was getting done,'' she said, ''then he should have stayed to get things done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An intern works the front desk of Senator Evan Bayh's office in South Bend, Ind. Mr. Bayh said Monday that he would not seek a third term.
JoAnna Clay, a homemaker in South Bend, said she was disappointed by Mr. Bayh's decision.
Tyler Bergin of Mishawaka said: ''I can't understand why he stepped down. It's unfortunate.''
 Barrett Berry of South Bend said he was troubled by the timing of Mr. Bayh's decision. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%)

PERSON: EVAN BAYH (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



484 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Top-Earning U.S. Households Averaged $345 Million in '07

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The 400 highest-earning households in the United States made nearly $345 million in 2007, up 31 percent from a year earlier, data from the Internal Revenue Service shows. 
 The figures for 2007, the last year of an economic expansion, show that average income reported by the top 400 earners more than doubled from $131.1 million in 2001. That year, Congress adopted tax cuts proposed by George W. Bush. Democrats say those cuts disproportionately benefit the wealthy.
 Each of the top 400 earning households paid an average tax rate of 16.6 percent, the lowest since the I.R.S. began tracking the data in 1992, the statistics show. Their average effective tax rate was about half the 29.4 percent in 1993, the first year of the Clinton administration, when taxes were increased.
 The statistics underscore ''two long-term trends: that income at the very top has exploded and their taxes have been cut dramatically,'' said Chuck Marr, director of federal tax policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington research group that supports increasing taxes on high-income people.
 The top 400 earners received a total of $138 billion in 2007, up from $105.3 billion a year earlier. Adjusted for inflation, their average income rose almost fivefold since 1992, the figures show.
 They may provide ammunition for President Obama and Democrats, led by the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, who say they intend to increase the capital gains tax rate and let tax rates for the highest earners increase in 2011.
 Almost three-quarters of the highest earners' income was in capital gains and dividends taxed at a 15 percent rate set as part of 2003 tax cuts supported by Mr. Bush, the figures show. Of the 400 earners, 289 paid a total effective federal tax rate of 20 percent or less in 2007, the last year for which figures were available, the data shows.
 William Ahern, director of policy and communications for the Tax Foundation, a Washington research group that advocates lower taxes, said the 2007 figures do not reflect the current economic circumstances.
 ''In a good year like 2007, it's not surprising to see that the owners and managers of the nation's largest firms made a fortune,'' he said. ''Notice that two-thirds of their 2007 income was in capital gains, which have dropped like a rock since then.'' 
 The data was first reported by Tax.com, a Web site run by Tax Analysts, a publisher in Virginia.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2010

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a Bloomberg News article on Feb. 18 about the income of the 400 highest-earning households in the United States misstated their earnings. As the headline correctly stated, $345 million was the average income of those households, not the total for all 400.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); NANCY PELOSI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



485 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 575 words

PERSON: Donald E. Welch 

HEADLINE: Donald E. Welsh, 66, a Creator of Magazines

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Donald E. Welsh, a publishing entrepreneur who helped found Arthur Frommer's Budget Travel, Budget Living and many children's magazines, died on Feb. 6 in Tortola, the British Virgin Islands. He was 66 and lived in Boston Corner, N.Y. 
 The cause was drowning, his wife, Bourne F. Welsh, said. 
 After starting his magazine career at Fortune, Mr. Welsh jumped to Rolling Stone, published by Jann Wenner. He was associate publisher there before becoming founding publisher of another Wenner magazine, Outside. He left to run another company's magazine division and began to focus it on children's publications. 
 His young daughter, Leah, had asked him for a subscription to People, Mr. Welsh recalled in a 1985 interview with Forbes, and he thought there had to be a more appropriate children's magazine available. But he was disappointed with what he found. 
 ''Children's publications talk down to the kids, and they're always teaching,'' he said, ''and they always seem to have lambs and bears in the margins of the pages.'' 
 So Mr. Welsh began striking licensing deals with brands like Barbie, the Muppets and Mickey Mouse, creating more than 20 magazines for children of the 1980s that would also please their young professional parents. In 1987, he bought the division that he had been leading, which he renamed the Welsh Publishing Group, and in 1994 he agreed to sell it to Marvel Comics.
 Mr. Welsh then began Arthur Frommer's Budget Travel, along with Mr. Frommer, in 1998. He sold it to Newsweek a year later.
 In 2002, he introduced Budget Living, a chic magazine for young professionals on a budget. It won awards for the best new magazine from industry publications as well as the American Society of Magazine Editors' highest honor, the general excellence award. Nonetheless, Budget Living was shut down in 2006 because of weak advertising sales. His most recent magazine was a joint venture with Forbes called ForbesLife MountainTime.
 ''He created a corporate culture that rewarded experimentation,'' Sarah Gray Miller, the first editor of Budget Living, said by e-mail. ''Don Welsh was absolutely fearless, and encouraged everyone who worked for him to take risks.''
 Though his interest in the outdoors was not sparked until he worked at Outside, his wife said, he became an enthusiast. He would corral fellow publishers into semi-regular Outward Bound trips that he led, and he took up scuba diving, fishing, climbing and running. 
 ''Would you say he was a strong outdoorsman? No, but he tried everything,'' Mrs. Welsh said. ''His whole motto was, 'Life should be lived like a cavalry charge.' '' 
 Donald Emory Welsh was born in Youngstown, Ohio, on Oct. 6, 1943, to Edward and Clevelle Welsh. He graduated from Columbia College and the Cleveland-Marshall College of Law. He married Bourne Floyd in 1966, a year after graduating from Columbia. He passed the Ohio bar, then worked for the Cleveland Trust Company before going into magazines, first in advertising sales for Fortune.
 In addition to his wife, he is survived by his brother, Edward Welsh of Gates Mills, Ohio; his children, Leah Welsh of Raleigh, N.C., and Philip Welsh of New York; and two grandchildren. 
 Even as the economy battered the magazine publishing industry, Mr. Welsh remained devoted to it. ''I spent my whole life at magazines,'' he said in 2003. ''One year I got out of magazines, and now I think, 'Why did I do that?' I only understand magazines.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donald E. Welsh. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); PUBLISHING (91%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); SCUBA DIVING (72%); WATER SPORTS (60%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (54%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: FORBES INC (72%); WELSH PUBLISHING GROUP INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

JANN WENNER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (90%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines, Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



486 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Republicans Clash Over Stimulus Bill, One Year Later

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama defended his year-old economic stimulus package on Wednesday, as Republicans and Democrats took to the Internet and the airwaves to wage a furious partisan battle over whether the bill was a monumental waste of taxpayer money or had rescued the economy from catastrophe.
 One year to the day after he signed the package into law, Mr. Obama appeared at the White House alongside small-business owners who have hired workers with federal money from the measure. He declared that the bill had created or saved as many as two million jobs, lowered taxes for 95 percent of Americans, and spared the nation the next Great Depression. 
 There is little dispute among economists that the measure has kept the jobless rate from being even higher than it is. But with unemployment at 9.7 percent on average, and higher in some states, the president conceded that there was widespread confusion about the bill, and a sense that it had not lived up to expectations.
 ''If we're honest, part of the controversy also is that despite the extraordinary work that has been done through the Recovery Act, millions of Americans are still without jobs,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Millions more are struggling to make ends meet. So it doesn't feel like much of a recovery yet. I understand that.''
 Mr. Obama's appearance was part of an intense sales pitch by the White House to convince Americans of the virtues of the stimulus bill, which has become a kind of political albatross for Democrats as they head into this year's midterm elections. White House officials concede that they have made mistakes in framing the public discussion of the measure; many Americans, for example, confuse the stimulus bill with Wall Street bailouts.
 This week, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., cabinet secretaries and other officials from throughout the administration are fanning out across the country to 35 communities, where they are talking up the measure and announcing new programs, like one unveiled by Transportation Secretary Ray Lahood on Wednesday to pay for 50 new transportation projects.
 At a time when both parties are talking about the virtues of working together, the anniversary touched off a bitter dispute between them, with each using the day to write its own political narrative around the bill. Democrats sought to portray Republicans as hypocrites for voting against the bill and then rushing to claim their share of stimulus money for projects in their home districts, while Republicans painted the measure as a failure.
 The Republican National Committee posted a Web video aimed at Mr. Obama titled ''Broken Promises,'' and the House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, issued a report titled ''Where are the Jobs? A Look Back at One Year of So-called 'Stimulus.' '' 
 The report argues that the measure is ''chockful of wasteful government spending'' and presents a list of what Republicans regard as questionable projects, singling out, for example, ''$10,000 to purchase a liquid nitrogen cryo freezer to store pallid sturgeon sperm'' and $1.25 million for a Northwestern University professor ''to use electric fish from the Amazon to study how animals take in sensory information to move quickly in any direction.''
 In interviews and e-mail messages, Mr. Boehner and other leading Republicans, including Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, Representative Mike Pence of Indiana and the Republican National Committee chairman, Michael Steele, argued that Mr. Obama could hardly claim credit for improvements in the economy with three million jobs lost over the past year, unemployment at nearly 10 percent and a deficit at $1.6 trillion.
 Economists say that Mr. Obama and the Republicans are both, in a sense, correct. The economy has indeed lost jobs on Mr. Obama's watch, but the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office recently calculated that the recovery package, formally called the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, had saved or created between 900,000 and 2.3 million jobs.
 ''The economy has shed some three million jobs over the past year, but it would have lost closer to five million without stimulus,'' said Mark Zandi, who is currently advising Congressional Democrats but also advised Senator John McCain, the 2008 Republican presidential nominee. ''The economy is still struggling, but it would have been much worse without stimulus.''
 Mr. Zandi said: ''It's legitimate to debate the efficiency of the stimulus; one could say, 'You're spending $800 billion plus and look at what we're getting for it.' But to say that this has not helped the job market is not correct.''
 Even the cost of the package was in dispute on Wednesday. The White House still uses a figure of $787 billion, the price tag of the bill when it passed Congress a little more than a year ago. But the Congressional Budget Office has calculated that the actual cost is $862 billion, which is the figure Republicans are using.
 As the debate played out on Wednesday, Democrats pressed hard at the hypocrite angle. The Democratic National Committee issued a video of its own, and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, said Republicans were ''trying to have it both ways.'' 
 The left-leaning Center for American Progress, a close ally of the Obama administration, issued a list of lawmakers who voted against the recovery act ''and then sought and/or took credit for its benefits'' -- a list that, the group said, included more than half of all Republicans in the House and nearly half in the Senate.
 Mr. Obama said at the White House, ''There are those, let's face it, across the aisle who have tried to score political points by attacking what we did -- even as many of them show up at ribbon-cutting ceremonies for projects in their districts.'' 
 One of the Democrats' main targets is Mr. Cantor, who has fought for his share of federal financing to support a high-speed rail project in his home state, Virginia. In an interview on Wednesday, Mr. Cantor argued that he should not have to ''embrace what I thought was a misguided package'' to seek federal money for a project he said, he had been pushing for nine years.
 Accusing the White House of ''cheap politics,'' he said, ''That is just the type of attitude in Washington that turns the public off.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama defended his stimulus package on Wednesday, saying it had saved as many as two million jobs and cut taxes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNET VIDEO (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RAY LAHOOD (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



487 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: An Episcopal Divide Over Gay Unions

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In his Feb. 8 Op-Ed article, ''Have Faith in Love,'' Eric Lax writes that the election of ''the Rev. Mary Glasspool, a priest who has been in a committed relationship with another woman for more than 20 years, as a suffragan (assistant) bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Los Angeles, has brought added turmoil to the Episcopal Church in the United States and to the worldwide Anglican Communion.'' 
 Later he adds, ''In protest, several dozen parishes have aligned themselves with conservative Anglican bishops in Africa, and the Roman Catholic Church has offered to take in disaffected Episcopalians.'' 
 I have read similar comments recently but never the other side of the story, which could easily read, ''In protest of the Roman Catholic Church's regression, many disaffected Catholics have aligned themselves with the Episcopal Church.''
 As the associate for music ministry at St. Timothy's Episcopal Church in Danville, Calif., a fairly conservative town, I know a number of new parishioners who have joined our church in their quest for a traditional liturgy that does not refuse to enter the 21st century. The Episcopal Church continues to open its arms to people of any faith, age, economic status and sexual orientation who are seeking a meaningful relationship with God.
 Raymond P. Parr II Castro Valley, Calif., Feb. 8, 2010
 To the Editor:
 ''Have Faith in Love'' is an excellent illustration of why the Episcopal Church and all other liberal churches in America are in a state of serious decline. Liberal Christians have a remarkable talent for bending the Bible so that it will justify the prevailing anti-Christian moral and intellectual fashions of the day. 
 The result is a ''Christianity'' that bears less and less resemblance to traditional Christianity and more and more resemblance to atheism.
 David R. Carlin Newport, R.I., Feb. 8, 2010
 The writer is the author of ''The Decline and Fall of the Catholic Church in America.'' 
 To the Editor:
 Eric Lax's thoughtful assessment of the Christian Scriptures' position on same-sex unions notwithstanding, we must remember that marriage is not the property of churches, synagogues or mosques. Marriage is sanctioned by the license of a civil authority, and when we clergy choose to be involved to wrap the occasion in the accoutrements of religion, we are nevertheless acting as agents of the state and sign that license accordingly.
 And so with respect to same-sex marriage, what any religion has to say about it is, frankly, irrelevant. And if any clergy object to it, well, no one is forcing them to participate.
 Presumably, we are long since past the days when blue laws were inflicted on all, based on a religious majority's idea of what was or was not permissible on ''the Sabbath'' (conveniently ignoring the fact that other faiths or denominations disputed which day of the week actually was ''the Sabbath''). 
 Now let us renounce the evil canard of ''separate but equal'' states of intimate union and declare same-sex marriage an inalienable right to be accorded to all consenting adult couples who seek it.
 (Rev.) Eliot Daley Princeton, N.J., Feb. 8, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Eric Lax's poignant meditation on same-sex love and the Episcopal Church rightly identifies love as the fundamental tenet of Christianity. But loving in a Christian way sometimes means gently confronting another person, as a wise Episcopal priest did in the following words from David Morrison's gripping 1999 memoir ''Beyond Gay'': ''David, if you need me to affirm what you do in bed, I can't, because I think that's sin. But if you need me to affirm you as a brother in Christ I can do that.''
 Roger Bonilla Sunnyvale, Calif., Feb. 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (98%); RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); WRITERS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); COHABITATION (65%); MARRIAGE (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



488 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Roving Retirees Trade Work For Rent at Cash-Poor Parks

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: ROMA, Tex. 

 BODY:
A cold wind whipped down the Texas plains on the night last month that Sharon Smith, 68, and her husband, Bill, 73, arrived here to be work-campers. 
 In the dark, they had trouble setting up their camper. But Ms. Smith, a former teacher's aide from Sioux Falls, S.D., said she looked up at the starry sky, shook off a few of the burrs she had picked up lying on the ground working on their truck, and told herself it would get better. 
 It did.
 The life of a work-camper, volunteering in places like Falcon State Park in deep South Texas in return for free rent, is not without its bumps. But as Ms. Smith also quickly discovered, the rewards can be deep as well -- like making cinnamon rolls as part of her job at the camp recreation center, where she and Mr. Smith are working as hosts through the end of March. 
 ''We're here for three reasons,'' she said, as she spread sugar on the dough. ''No. 1, we like to travel. No. 2, we like people. And No. 3, we're on a budget.'' 
 An itinerant, footloose army of available and willing retirees in their 60s and 70s is marching through the American outback, looking to stretch retirement dollars by volunteering to work in parks, campgrounds and wildlife sanctuaries, usually in exchange for camping space.
 Park and wildlife agencies say that retired volunteers have in turn become all the more crucial as budget cuts and new demands have made it harder to keep parks open. 
 Work-campers come together in one place -- leading nature walks or staffing visitor centers, typically working 20 hours to 30 hours a week -- then take off to their next assignments. As they move about, they keep in touch with one another through cellphone numbers, e-mail addresses and Facebook postings, creating virtual communities filled with the people they meet.
 Camp life, especially in this bird-watching hotspot, revolves around the great outdoors: picking up trash, guiding visitors and, with luck, perhaps spotting the rare roadside hawk that has been reported in the Rio Grande Valley. Night brings a round of socializing: wine around the picnic tables out by the bird feeders, an open-mike sing-along at the recreation center, an evening walk through the South Texas scrubland. 
 Estimates of the number of work-campers nationally vary, but a spokesman for Kampgrounds of America Inc., a private company that franchises camps, said that 80,000 or so might be a good guess, based on KOA's percentage of the camping market and the number of its work-campers.
 ''It attracts a certain kind of person,'' said Wendy R. Forster, 70, a retired biologist who lives alone in her motor home and has been leading bird-watchers' walks here since January. ''There's a lot of companionship and security.'' 
 Recession has cut a fierce crosswind through the subculture, recreation experts and campers say. Some parks in California that once needed volunteers have closed, for example, as the state's budget crisis has intensified. Many campers are also trying to stay longer in one place to cut travel expenses.
 But other recreation managers say they have become more dependent than ever on a national network of volunteers, partly because of spending cuts and partly because remaining staff members have to prioritize what they can do.
 ''Basic trail maintenance, for example -- picking up trash,'' said Nancy C. Brown, who coordinates volunteers for the South Texas Refuge Complex, which includes three large wildlife areas. ''It's important for wildlife purposes, but when you're faced with a choice of dealing with oil and gas permits or maintaining a trail, the trail is the first thing to go.''
 In the last decade, Ms. Brown said, the number of campsites set aside for volunteers in the complex, including those at Falcon State Park, has risen twentyfold, to 65 from 3. 
 In some places, the retired volunteers are about the only staff members left.
 ''We did a state park in Arizona this year that had laid off so many people, we basically ran it,'' said Carolyn Miller, 71, a former small-business owner from Colorado who has work-camped from Alaska to Maine with her husband, Warren, 73.
 For many work-campers, the appeal of a nontraditional retirement was also linked to a life-changing event -- the death of a spouse, a divorce, money trouble, a midlife reassessment of priorities. For whatever reasons, they said, staying put became an unappealing or unavailable option.
 And for some, there is romance to be found. Sandra Noll, 65, a retired nurse who has been leading canoe trips for bird-watchers on the Rio Grande since early January, met her partner, Erv Nichols, 66, three years ago. 
 Mr. Nichols, a retired photographer from Big Bear Lake, Calif., had set out to downsize his life. With Social Security as his only income, and two previous marriages that ended in divorce, he was so sure of a solo life, he said, that he ripped out the front passenger seat of the little motor home that a friend had given him as a gift. 
 Ms. Noll, who was reassessing her own life after a divorce and a move back West, where she grew up, found Mr. Nichols's zeal in tossing aside his possessions appealing. ''You wanted to simplify your life,'' she said, glancing across the table at him in their little trailer. ''That drew you to me.''
 Ms. Forster, the retired biologist, became a volunteer partly out of grief. When her husband died of cancer 17 years ago, in his 50s, she immediately set off, she said, continuing the motor-home life they had imagined together, but now on her own. She has led bird-watching trips all over the country and has already made plans to come back here next year.
 ''We're nomadic,'' she said. ''But a lot of us are coming back next year, so that will be a reunion.''
 Other campers are moving down the road. Ms. Noll and Mr. Nichols, for example, are headed next to Nebraska, to work as guides along the sandhill cranes' migration route. Starting in June, the Smiths, from Sioux Falls, will work on an island in Puget Sound. Ellen Lawson, 66, of Evansville, Wyo., will head for a dulcimer festival in Mississippi. She said she was already dreading the goodbyes when she and her husband, Ron, 67, leave here in March.
 ''I cried when I left home to come here,'' Ms. Lawson said while raking leaves at Falcon State Park's Butterfly Garden, ''and I'll cry when I leave.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 19, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about retirees who volunteer to work in parks, campgrounds and wildlife sanctuaries, usually in exchange for camping space, misstated the effect budget cuts in California have had on parks there the past year. Cutbacks have caused partial closures or deep reductions in the hours of operation at nearly 60 state parks, but no park has been shut completely. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Erv Nichols, a birders' guide.(A1)
The motor home hookups are free for Erv Nichols and Sandra Noll, who volunteer as canoe guides at Falcon State Park in Texas.
 Wendy R. Forster, at telescope, leads a bird-watchers' outing. At right, Ellen Lawson at an open-mike night for volunteers.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (90%); CAMPING (90%); STATE PARKS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (90%); BIRDS (89%); BIRDING (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (69%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (69%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); BUDGETS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: KAMPGROUNDS OF AMERICA INC (61%); FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721211 RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (61%); SIC7033 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS & CAMPSITES (61%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



489 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Turning Patents Into 'Invention Capital'

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

DATELINE: BELLEVUE, Wash. 

 BODY:
Nathan Myhrvold wants to shake up the marketplace for ideas. His mission and the activities of the company he heads, Intellectual Ventures, a secretive $5 billion investment firm that has scooped up 30,000 patents, inspire admiration and angst.
 Admirers of Mr. Myhrvold, the scientist who led Microsoft's technology development in the 1990s, see an innovator seeking to elevate the economic role and financial rewards for inventors whose patented ideas are often used without compensation by big technology companies. His detractors see a cynical operator deploying his bulging patent trove as a powerful bargaining chip, along with the implied threat of costly litigation, to prod high-tech companies to pay him lucrative fees. They call his company ''Intellectual Vultures.''
 White hat or black hat, Intellectual Ventures is growing rapidly and becoming a major force in the marketplace for intellectual capital. Its rise comes as Congress is considering legislation, championed by large technology companies, that would make it more difficult for patent holders to win large damage awards in court -- changes that Mr. Myhrvold has opposed in Congressional testimony and that his company has lobbied against. 
 Intellectual Ventures spent more than $1 million on lobbying last year, according to public filings compiled by OpenSecrets.org. In the three most recent election cycles -- 2006, 2008 and 2010 -- Intellectual Ventures executives, led by Mr. Myhrvold, have contributed more than $1 million to Democratic and Republican candidates and committees.
 Mr. Myhrvold makes no apology for playing hard under the current patent system. If his company is going to help change things, it must be a force to be reckoned with. ''We have to be successful,'' he said. 
 The issues surrounding Intellectual Ventures, viewed broadly, are the ground rules and incentives for innovation. ''How this plays out will be crucial to the American economy,'' said Josh Lerner, an economist and patent expert at the Harvard Business School.
 Mr. Myhrvold certainly thinks so. He says he is trying to build a robust, efficient market for ''invention capital,'' much as private equity and venture capital developed in recent decades. ''They started from nothing, were deeply misunderstood and were trashed by people threatened by new business models,'' he said in his offices here.
 Mr. Myhrvold presents his case at length in a 7,000-word article published on Thursday in the Harvard Business Review. ''If we and firms like us succeed,'' he writes, ''the invention capital system will turbocharge technological progress, create many more new businesses, and change the world for the better.''
 In the article and in conversation, Mr. Myhrvold describes the patent world as a vastly underdeveloped market, starved for private capital and too dependent on federal financing for universities and government agencies, which is mainly aimed at scientific discovery anyway. Eventually, he foresees patents being valued as a separate asset class, like real estate or securities.
 His antagonists, he says, are the ''cozy oligarchy'' of big technology companies like I.B.M., Hewlett-Packard and others that typically reach cross-licensing agreements with each other, and then refuse to deal with or acknowledge the work of inventors or smaller companies.
 Ignoring the patents of others is ''deeply ingrained in parts of certain industries,'' he writes in the article, ''most notably software, computing and other Internet-related sectors.''
 Large technology companies complain about patent suits but, Mr. Myhrvold says, their actions often invite litigation. ''The attitude of the big guys has been that unless you sue me or threaten to sue me, get lost,'' he said in the interview. ''I know, I was one of those guys.'' Indeed, Mr. Myhrvold, 50, supplied his considerable brain power to Microsoft for 13 years, serving as chief technology officer until 2000. 
 Mr. Myhrvold personifies the term polymath. He is a prolific patent producer himself, with more than 100 held or applied for. He earned his Ph.D. in physics from Princeton and did postdoctorate research on quantum field theory under Stephen Hawking, before founding a start-up that Microsoft acquired. 
 He is an accomplished French chef, who has also won a national barbecue contest in Tennessee. He is an avid wildlife photographer, and he has dabbled in paleontology, working on research projects digging for dinosaur remains in the Rockies.
 His Intellectual Ventures is not simply a patent hedge fund. Its 650 employees include scientists and engineers, and it has an in-house invention effort and lab that last year applied for 450 patents. To date, the company has paid $315 million to individual inventors. 
 He calls patents ''the next software,'' noting that software did not become a market on its own until the 1980s, spurred by innovators and the enforcement of intellectual property laws. ''I'm trying to get inventions that kind of respect as an economic entity,'' he said.
 Yet while Mr. Myhrvold is saying one thing, his company's main activity is quite another, according to Mark Bohannon, general counsel and senior vice president for public policy for the Software and Information Industry Association. 
 Intellectual Ventures, Mr. Bohannon says, is the largest of the category of firms that hold patents, but do not make products. Lawyers call such firms nonpracticing entities, NPEs, though they are often labeled as patent trolls. ''Our concern is that it games the patent litigation system so it can extract licensing fees and investments from technology companies that create jobs, innovate and make products,'' said Mr. Bohannon, whose trade association includes I.B.M., Google, Oracle, SAP and Adobe.
 Several analysts say that Intellectual Ventures has been primarily a master practitioner of exploiting the current rules of the game to its advantage. Many companies in the patent field use shell companies to mask their activities, and Intellectual Ventures seems to employ them with uncommon frequency. A report last month by Avancept, an intellectual property consulting firm, said that up to 1,110 shell companies and affiliated entities appear to be linked to Intellectual Ventures. The secrecy, said Thomas Ewing, principal consultant for Avancept, makes it ''far more difficult to confidently negotiate with Intellectual Ventures.''
 Intellectual Ventures, founded in 2000, began operating in 2003. It says it has returned $1 billion to investors and collected more than $1 billion in license fees to date. Most of the revenue has apparently come from 16 so-called strategic investors -- big companies that pay to license patent rights and get a stake in an Intellectual Ventures fund.
 The companies must sign strict nondisclosure agreements to even talk with Intellectual Ventures. Only Microsoft has publicly stated that it is one of the group. In 2008, The Wall Street Journal reported that Verizon Communications had agreed to pay Intellectual Ventures $350 million. Other companies that have agreed to sizable payments to Intellectual Ventures include Intel, Nokia and Sony, according to people told of deals. And Intellectual Ventures has sought deals with others, including I.B.M. and Amazon, so far without success, say people informed of the talks.
 Intellectual Ventures' penchant for secrecy, Mr. Myhrvold says, is partly a legacy from its early days as an upstart when it did not want to tip its hand. Personally, he says he advocates not only the public disclosure of patents but also license agreements,but he will not give up the competitive edge of secrecy unilaterally. ''If everybody in the industry does it, I'll be right there,'' Mr. Myhrvold said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nathan Myhrvold, chief of Intellectual Ventures, says patent holders are being treated unfairly. (B1)
 Nathan Myhrvold with a machine that freeze-dries food. Intellectual Ventures so far has paid $315 million to individual inventors. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (92%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); DAMAGES (76%); TESTIMONY (73%); LOBBYING (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); LITIGATION (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



490 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: No Fault of Their Own

BYLINE: By RUTH BETTELHEIM. 
Ruth Bettelheim is a marriage and family therapist.

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
 AS we have just passed the 40th anniversary of that much vilified institution, the no-fault divorce, it is an appropriate moment to re-evaluate how divorce affects families, and particularly children. The California law took effect on Jan. 1, 1970, and was followed by a wave of marital separations that continues to this day -- and also a wave of rhetoric condemning divorce for harming children and undermining the fabric of society. 
 As divorce is clearly here to stay, it may be more productive to instead ask how the process of dissolving a marriage might be changed to avoid, as much as possible, damaging children. 
 This challenge is not as great as widespread preconceptions would suggest. Studies conducted in the past 20 years have shown that on all meaningful measures of success -- social, economic, intellectual and psychological -- most adult children from divorced families are no worse off than their peers whose parents remained married. 
 Researchers have found two explanations for this. Children who have to cope with their parents' separation and post-divorce lives often grow resilient, self-reliant, adaptable and independent. And children benefit from escaping the high-conflict environment of a rocky marriage. After their parents' separation, as conflicts fade, children recover. 
 Sustained family conflict can cause children to experience the kinds of problems that are usually attributed to divorce: low self-esteem, depression, high anxiety, difficulty forming relationships, delinquency and withdrawal from the world. 
 Given that reducing family conflict is good for children, the best way to protect them during divorce would be to minimize the acrimony of the proceedings. No-fault divorce, now practiced in every state except New York, has been one step toward this goal. But issues relating to children in divorce cases are still very often decided by long, heated contests between the parents. Custody disagreements are settled by a judge's determination of what is in ''the best interests of the child.'' In practical terms, this means that both parents do their utmost to demonstrate that they are the better parent -- and that the other one is worse, unfit or even abusive. 
 At stake are not only the participants' self-esteem and their relationships with their children but also their financial security. As child support is often linked to the proportion of time the children spend with each parent, the days and hours of their future lives become tools for one parent to extract payment from the other. This is a recipe for warfare, with the children's well-being both the disputed turf and the likely casualty.
 What children need instead are no-fault custody proceedings -- which could be accomplished with two changes to state family law. First, take the money out of the picture by establishing fixed formulas for child support that ensure the children are well taken care of in both homes, regardless of the number of days they spend in each. Second, defuse tension by requiring parents to enter mediation to find a custody solution that best meets the needs of all concerned. 
 Agreements reached through mediation would need to be binding (subject to the approval of a judge), so that they could not be discarded or contested later if new disagreements were to arise. Although some parents might worry that this would diminish their opportunities for recourse, mediation would actually give them greater control over the outcome than a judge's unilateral verdict does. 
 In an adversarial custody battle, no one wins, but children are the biggest losers of all. Intelligent legislation could promote the one thing that children of divorce need most: peace between their parents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%); FAMILY LAW (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



491 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Do We Really Want the Status Quo on Health Care?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
If you found a suspicious lump in your neck, you'd never put off dealing with it with the excuse: This is the loveliest neck in the world, and I don't want to tinker with it.
 Sure, hospitals are expensive and serve tasteless food. Yes, surgeons can accidentally leave a clamp behind, and nobody likes blood. But burying one's head in the sand is what ostriches do -- and that's what we Americans are poised to do if we miss this chance to reform our sick health care system. 
 The debate about health care in recent months has focused on the shortcomings of the reform proposals. Critics are right to be disappointed that the legislation doesn't curb malpractice suits and doesn't do more to change the basic fee-for-service structure that incubates rising health care costs.
 But just think for a moment about the far costlier option that now may lie ahead of us: sticking with the status quo. 
 Health care is on my mind partly because my eldest son, a champion high school wrestler, had his latest postmatch encounter with the medical system. You know you have a problem when the E.R. nurse immediately recognizes your son and discusses whether hospitals should give kids the equivalent of frequent flier miles.
 Thirteen stitches and a serious infection crisis later, my son is on the mend. He had the help of an excellent, committed pair of doctors, his pediatrician and an oral surgeon. But for tens of millions of Americans who are uninsured or underinsured, medical care is haphazard and sometimes nonexistent. 
 And every indication is that the longer we stick with the existing system, the worse the problems will be with the two central and interlinked problems of our health care system, access and cost.
 For a peek at what to expect, consider that California's Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield -- the largest for-profit health insurance company in America's most populous state -- is explaining that it is ''sound and necessary'' for it to raise rates for individual insurance by up to 39 percent. The increase, originally scheduled for March, is now scheduled to take effect in May.
 Critics doubt that the Senate and House bills would succeed in containing health care costs very much, and they may be right. It's hard to know. But the existing system is a runaway roller coaster. Isn't it prudent to try brake pedals even if we're not sure how well they'll work?
 The United States Public Interest Research Group calculated last year that without reform, insurance premiums for those with employer-provided health care would nearly double by 2016. Also last month, the Urban Institute applied its computer model of health insurance costs to a scenario in which there is no reform, and this is what it found:
 ''Over the next decade in every state, the percent of the population that is uninsured will increase, employer-sponsored coverage will continue to erode, spending on public programs will balloon, and individual and family out-of-pocket costs could increase by more than 35 percent,'' it said. It added that the number of uninsured Americans could reach as many as 65 million in another decade.
 As The New England Journal of Medicine noted last month, the United States ranks No. 1 only in terms of spending. We rank 39th in infant mortality, 43rd in adult female mortality and 42nd in adult male mortality.
 Skeptics suggest that America's poor health statistics are a result of social inequities and a large underclass. There's something to that. But despite these problems, the population over age 65 manages to enjoy above-average health statistics -- because it enjoyed health care reform back in 1965 with Medicare.
 The medical journal noted that ''comparisons also reveal that the United States is falling farther behind'' other countries each year. In 1974, for example, Australian men and boys aged 15 to 60 died at about the same rate as American men and boys in that age group. Today, Australia's rates for that group are about 40 percent lower than America's.
 ''U.S. performance not only is poor at any given moment but also is improving much more slowly than that of other countries over time,'' the medical journal reported.
 So don't believe the canard that health reform is unaffordable. Last year, we spent 17.3 percent of gross domestic product on health care, about double what many other industrialized countries pay. The share is rising by more than one-quarter of a percentage point per year.
 At the present rate, by my calculations, in the year 2303 every penny of our G.D.P. will go to health care. At that time, we'll probably get daily M.R.I.'s and CAT scans, even as we starve naked in caves.
 So the question isn't: Can we afford to reform health care? Rather: Can we afford not to?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (86%); PEDIATRICS (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (74%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (70%); INSURANCE (69%); WRESTLING (66%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (65%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (54%)

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (64%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



492 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: A Bank's Monument To Better Days

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn. 

 BODY:
The Royal Bank of Scotland may be one of Britain's most bailed-out banks. But at its American headquarters here, there is hardly a whisper of distress. 
 The gleaming glass and steel building -- planned years before the financial crisis curbed R.B.S.'s sway over the British financial industry -- now looms over Interstate 95, a scrappy challenger to another once-swaggering foreign bank, UBS of Switzerland, which put down roots near the same spot more than a decade ago. 
 With a outdoor terrace, a gym where workers can purchase massages and one of the largest trading floors in the world, the 11-story building would probably stir the ire of British taxpayers already reeling from a government bailout of more than $71 billion at today's exchange rate. But perhaps luckily for the workers here, those taxpayers are an ocean away. 
 R.B.S., in some ways, is the British version of Citigroup or the American International Group, the two financial companies in which the United States government still owns large stakes. A year ago, R.B.S. recorded the largest ever loss for a British company, $:24.1 billion ($35 billion at exchange rates at the time). The British government took what is now an 84 percent stake in exchange for the bailout. 
 Like A.I.G., the British bank has been the target of many attacks by unhappy taxpayers, including protests during the Group of 20 summit meeting in London in April 2009 and a snowball barrage on some of its workers in London two months earlier that became popular images on the Internet. Last month, the British singer Billy Bragg rallied a crowd in Hyde Park in London to demand that R.B.S halt bonus payments. 
 And so, five time zones away, executives in R.B.S.'s American outpost are a bit cautious as they give a tour of their new offices, a $500 million building designed in 2006. ''It's very bull market,'' said Michael Lyublinsky, co-head of global banking and markets for R.B.S. in the Americas.
 R.B.S. traders and investment bankers moved into the new building throughout last year from several offices in Stamford, in Greenwich, Conn., and in New York City. Executives say the company never considered canceling the move in light of the bank's problems, and they say the building has been a morale booster in tough times.
 ''It's been a source of pride and kind of a rallying cry,'' said Robert McKillip, the other co-head of global banking and markets in the Americas. ''We've been through a lot.''
 The Stamford office holds R.B.S.'s second-largest trading center, making it akin to the London trading offices of United States banks. Visitors are greeted by receptionists wearing tartan-plaid blazers. Unlike the foreign headquarters of other powerful banks, there is no grand collection of art on display in the entrance. Instead, videos of workers and the bank's customers flash in the lobby, an electronic testament to the ebb and flow of the monumental business R.B.S. does in global financial markets. 
 The building's highlight is an elevator ride away from the entrance. Though R.B.S. combines consumer banking, insurance and trading under one roof, a button pressed for the sixth floor is a voyage to the bank's true nerve center: a trading floor as immense as an airport hanger. About 900 people work there in space that can hold up to 1,000 traders. In a world where numbers matter, the trading floor was rumored during construction to be larger than UBS's, currently the world's largest. R.B.S.'s ultimately came in 3,000 square feet smaller, but bank officials are fond of saying that there is always room for expansion.
 On Wall Street, the R.B.S. brand had long been an afterthought because until last year its trading unit used the name Greenwich Capital, which R.B.S. acquired as part of its purchase of another British bank, National Westminster, in 2003. Traders there were not fully integrated into R.B.S. until the move into the new headquarters. 
 Much of R.B.S.'s growth in recent years has been driven by acquisitions, but the last one caused the bank particular trouble. In 2007, R.B.S. led a hostile takeover of the Dutch bank ABN Amro, for which, as it turns out, it grossly overpaid. Soon, it was saddled with heavy investments in leveraged loans and real estate assets. The bank's former chief executive, Frederick A. Goodwin, who signed off on the new American building, was pushed out early last year.
 Mr. McKillip and Mr. Lyublinsky said the British government's ownership had not worked against R.B.S.'s business interests, citing the bank's involvement in helping Kraft Foods take over Cadbury, even though it was a British company. But the bank has been shedding divisions and slimming down as required by the British government, while trying to retain workers. R.B.S. announced on Tuesday that it had sold part of Sempra, a lucrative energy trading unit, to JPMorgan Chase for $1.7 billion. 
 Recently, the biggest buzz around the new building centered on bonuses, a topic of speculation across Wall Street and a sore spot for the British taxpayers who are helping keep R.B.S. afloat. The bank said a year ago that bonuses would no longer contain cash, a more draconian step than ones taken by most banks, which simply reduced the cash portion of bonuses. Soon after, a spate of traders quit R.B.S., executives said, saying that the change was an affront to the culture of many who previously had worked entirely on commission for Greenwich Capital. 
 ''It was painful,'' said Mr. McKillip. ''But the market has come our way in terms of clawbacks and deferrals.''
 The bank ultimately decided to allow employees to sell a portion of their stock bonuses this June, alleviating some of the restrictions. Despite proposals to rein in risky banking activity and compensation in the United States, which could add to the list of changes they must make, Mr. McKillip and Mr. Lyublinsky are optimistic about the market and say they are eager to take on the likes of Goldman Sachs and foreign banks like Credit Suisse that did not receive government aid. 
 Now is the time for the bank to pursue a fresh start, they said. ''No other bank was cleaned up more than R.B.S.,'' Mr. Lyublinsky said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new $500 million American headquarters of the Royal Bank of Scotland in Stamford, Conn., has one of the world's largest trading floors. (B1)
Michael Lyublinsky, left, and Robert McKillip, the two heads of global banking and markets for the Royal Bank of Scotland, in the lobby at headquarters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The 11-story U.S. headquarters for Royal Bank of Scotland along I-95 in Stamford, Conn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (93%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (93%); RBS (LSE) (93%); RBS (AMS) (93%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SWITZERLAND (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



493 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: A Crackdown on 'Contractors' as a Tax Dodge

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Federal and state officials, many facing record budget deficits, are starting to aggressively pursue companies that try to pass off regular employees as independent contractors. 
 President Obama's 2010 budget assumes that the federal crackdown will yield at least $7 billion over 10 years. More than two dozen states also have stepped up enforcement, often by enacting stricter penalties for misclassifying workers.
 Many workplace experts say a growing number of companies have maneuvered to cut costs by wrongly classifying regular employees as independent contractors, though they often are given desks, phone lines and assignments just like regular employees. Moreover, the experts say, workers have become more reluctant to challenge such practices, given the tough job market. 
 Companies that pass off employees as independent contractors avoid paying Social Security, Medicare and unemployment insurance taxes for those workers. Companies do not withhold income taxes from contractors' paychecks, and several studies have indicated that, on average, misclassified independent workers do not report 30 percent of their income. 
 One federal study concluded that employers illegally passed off 3.4 million regular workers as contractors, while the Labor Department estimates that up to 30 percent of companies misclassify employees. Ohio's attorney general estimates that his state has 92,500 misclassified workers, which has cost the state up to $35 million a year in unemployment insurance taxes, up to $103 million in workers' compensation premiums and up to $223 million in income tax revenue.
 ''It's a very significant problem,'' said the attorney general, Richard Cordray. ''Misclassification is bad for business, government and labor. Law-abiding businesses are in many ways the biggest fans of increased enforcement. Misclassifying can mean a 20 or 30 percent cost difference per worker.''
 Employers deny misclassifying workers deliberately. The businesses say the lines are unclear between employee and independent contractor.
 Workers are generally considered employees when someone else controls how and when they perform their work. In contrast, independent contractors are generally in business for themselves, obtain customers on their own and control how they perform services. 
 Many businesses are dismayed about the tougher federal and state scrutiny.
 ''The goal of raising money is not a proper rationale for reclassifying who falls on what side of the line,'' said Randel K. Johnson, senior vice president with the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''The laws are unclear in this area, and legitimate clarification is one thing. But if it's just a way to justify enforcing very unclear laws against employers who can have a legitimate disagreement with the Labor Department or I.R.S., then we're concerned.''
 Among the most often misclassified workers are truck drivers, construction workers, home health aides and high-tech engineers.
 Portraying regular workers as contractors allows companies to circumvent minimum wage, overtime and antidiscrimination laws. Workers classified as contractors do not receive unemployment insurance if laid off or workers' compensation if injured, and they rarely receive the health insurance or other fringe benefits regular employees do.
 ''This denies many workers their basic rights and protections and means less revenues to the Treasury and a competitive advantage for employers who misclassify,'' said Jared Bernstein, who as executive director of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s Middle Class Task Force has helped orchestrate the administration's campaign against misclassification. ''The last thing you want is to give a competitive advantage to employers who are breaking the rules.''
 Organized labor, a strong supporter of Mr. Obama, has long complained about the practice. No administration has undertaken as big a crackdown as Mr. Obama's, although administration and state officials deny they are doing it as a favor to labor. 
 California's attorney general, Jerry Brown, is seeking $4.3 million from a construction firm he accused of misclassifying employees. Last April, he won a $13 million judgment when a court ruled that two companies had misclassified 300 janitors, cheated the state out of payroll taxes and not paid minimum wage and overtime. 
 Last November, the Illinois Department of Labor imposed $328,500 in penalties on a home improvement company for misclassifying 18 workers, saying it had pressed them to incorporate as separate business entities.
 The Obama administration plans to expand investigations by hiring 100 more enforcement personnel. The I.R.S. has begun auditing 6,000 companies to see whether they are in compliance with the law.
 The administration also plans to rewrite a three-decade-old I.R.S. rule that lets companies indefinitely classify employees as independent contractors -- even when the government knows they are misclassified -- so long as the company once had a reasonable belief that the workers were contractors.
 One worker who welcomes stricter enforcement is Fritz Elienberg, who spent five years installing cable and Internet service for RCN in Boston. 
 Mr. Elienberg said he and a dozen other installers reported to an RCN office six mornings a week, shortly after 6:30, where they received their daily assignments and the equipment to do installations. He said he typically worked 10 to 14 hours a day and never received time-and-a-half pay for overtime.
 ''I didn't feel like an independent contractor. I didn't feel like my own boss,'' Mr. Elienberg said. ''I always believed I was an employee. It's a win-win situation for them and a lose-lose for us. We didn't get overtime, sick days, vacations, health insurance or pensions.''
 Mr. Elienberg said his foot was seriously injured when a ladder fell on it, but workers' compensation did not cover his medical bills because he was considered a contractor. He is suing RCN for overtime pay and the value of lost benefits.
 Michele Murphy, an RCN spokeswoman, said the company often contracted with outside service providers but did not misclassify workers.
 A Harvard study found that 4.5 percent of Massachusetts workers were misclassified, while a Cornell study concluded that 10 percent of New York's private-sector workers were. 
 Last October, the attorneys general of New York, New Jersey and Montana threatened to sue FedEx Ground, asserting it had misclassified its drivers. The Teamsters union has long pressed officials to pursue the company. The Teamsters hope to unionize these drivers, but independent contractors, unlike regular employees, cannot form unions.
 FedEx argues that these drivers are contractors because they own their trucks and can sell their routes.
 One factor in the push for more aggressive enforcement is the Labor Department's new top law enforcement official, M. Patricia Smith. As New York's labor commissioner the past three years, she was known for cracking down on misclassification.
 Ms. Smith oversaw a task force comprising various state agencies that conducted 2,413 misclassification investigations and 65 joint sweeps in which teams descended on companies' offices to examine payroll records.
 In a Feb. 1 report to New York's governor, Ms. Smith noted that since late 2007, the task force had identified more than 31,000 instances of misclassification and assessed $11 million in unpaid unemployment taxes and $14.5 million in unpaid wages. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 2010

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about federal and state officials' efforts to collect taxes from companies that illegally pass off regular employees as independent contractors gave an incorrect middle initial, in some copies, for the vice president, whose Middle Class Task Force helped orchestrate the campaign. He is Joseph R. Biden, not Joseph A.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fritz Elienberg, who was a contract worker for RCN, sued the company after he was injured.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); TAX FRAUD (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); TAX LAW (88%); MEDICARE (79%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); RICHARD CORDRAY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



494 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Accord Close On Oversight Of Bank Risk

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Eric Dash contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate and the Obama administration are nearing agreement on forming a council of regulators, led by the Treasury secretary, to identify systemic risk to the nation's financial system, officials said Wednesday. 
 The issue is one of the most fundamental in the contentious effort to overhaul regulation after the financial crisis, and addresses one of the primary lessons of the near debacle: that no one had been assigned to ensure the stability of the system as a whole and detect the kinds of excessive risk-taking and imbalances that could rock an entire economy.
 Assigning the Treasury Department the job of spotting incipient trouble and addressing it quickly has support among senators from both parties, though several important provisions, including whether the council would have the ability to bypass existing banking regulators and impose its own rules on huge financial firms, remain to be worked out. 
 The effect would be to diminish the authority of the Federal Reserve, whose regulation of banks has been criticized for failing to head off the problems. 
 Though some in the Fed continue to push for the central bank to be the overseer of systemic risk, the chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, is willing to go along with a Treasury-led council. 
 Legislation passed by the House in December to reshape the regulatory system gave the Fed more input on systemic risk than the Senate concept would.
 Officials said that Mr. Bernanke, who survived a contentious Senate reconfirmation process last month, was focused instead on preserving the Fed's supervision of the largest bank holding companies, which include Bank of America, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, as well as investment houses like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, which converted to holding companies during the crisis. 
 ''The idea of having a council, with the secretary of the Treasury as chair, and the Fed chairman or his designee as vice chair, is that you're getting an early-warning system,'' said the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut. 
 The idea of the council is similar to a concept the White House proposed last summer. But a senior administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity so as not to interfere with the Senate negotiations, expressed concern about reducing the Fed's powers any further.
 ''We think it's really critical that the Fed, as a lender of last resort in the economy, have hands-on supervision of the largest firms in our economy,'' the official said. 
 Mr. Dodd, who had proposed to strip away those powers as part of a regulatory consolidation, said the Fed's authority to oversee bank holding companies remained ''an open-ended question.'' 
 Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, said in an interview that the extent of the systemic risk council's powers -- not the council itself -- required resolution. ''There's a lot of concern about having a regulator that roves around, picking up companies unaware they were going to be regulated by a new entity,'' he said. 
 Senator Mark R. Warner, a Virginia Democrat who supports the idea of the Treasury-led council, said: ''You need a vigorous, focused group. You don't need to create some massive new bureaucracy, but a place to share information and do some level of analysis.''
 Mr. Bernanke said at a hearing in October that he supported a Treasury-led council. In a speech last month, he said the Fed was ''working not only to improve our ability to identify and correct problems in financial institutions, but also to move from an institution-by-institution supervisory approach to one that is attentive to the stability of the financial system as a whole.'' 
 Others in the Fed, including William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, have argued that the central bank is uniquely positioned to be an overall risk regulator because of its role as the lender of last resort and as the nerve center of capital markets and payments systems. 
 In a speech on Tuesday, Narayana R. Kocherlakota, president of the Minneapolis Fed, said: ''Stripping the Federal Reserve of its role in supervision is a step in the wrong direction. Making it the systemic risk regulator is a step in the right direction.''
 If anything, the Senate is moving in the other direction, not only to give oversight of systemic risk primarily to the Treasury but also to rein in the central bank's regulatory powers. 
 ''Let the other traditional regulators focus on direct banking regulation and have the Fed focus more exclusively on monetary policy,'' said one committee member, Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana. ''It's not like they have a small or unimportant portfolio.''
 Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, disagreed. ''I'm in the distinct minority on the committee in that I want the Fed to retain a lot of its powers in regulation,'' he said. ''I think that's also Treasury's position. It's clearly not Dodd, Shelby or even Corker's position.'' 
 Mr. Dodd and Mr. Corker, who have been spearheading talks over the regulatory overhaul along with the committee's ranking Republican, Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, left Wednesday on a trip to Central America. While Mr. Dodd said the trip was related to their work on the foreign relations committee, other senators said they hoped the two men would arrive at a consensus by the time they returned Monday. 
 Even if Mr. Dodd's committee and the leaders of the two parties in the Senate agree on the systemic risk regulator, there are deep divisions over other components of any legislation, and it is not clear what shape a package might take. 
 Among them is whether to create a consumer financial protection agency that would regulate credit cards, mortgages and other products. The House included creation of the agency, which has President Obama's support, in its overhaul, but Senate Republicans have balked at the idea.
 Also under discussion are two recent White House proposals to rein in the size and scope of banks, but some senators have suggested they are aiming to defer debate on them for now. 
 Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, predicted that the consumer agency would be the chief sticking point as the Senate talks proceed.
 ''There will be an entity in charge of systemic risk -- which no one now has the responsibility to do -- and the consequence of identifying systemic risk will be immediate remedial action to put that institution out of its misery,'' Mr. Frank said. 
 But some in the Fed remain skeptical. James Bullard, president of the St. Louis Fed, said in an interview that Mr. Bernanke had been ''too kind'' in accepting blame for regulatory failings, given the failings of other regulators, from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. 
 ''If he's giving up, it's because he's somehow making some calculations about what the realities are,'' Mr. Bullard said.
 ''But I'm telling you, this business of how we're going to give this to a committee and we're going to have an effective response to the next crisis. That is a joke.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Timothy Geithner of Treasury, Ben Bernanke of the Federal Reserve and William Dudley of the New York Fed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (74%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); BOB CORKER (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010



495 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: A Day of Gains, Then a Shift in Mood

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Wall Street rode a three-day winning streak on Thursday, but an unexpected move after the close to raise a crucial interest rate sent a wave of pessimism through the market.
 Stock futures fell after the Federal Reservesaid it would raise the rate it charges banks on emergency loans, signaling a lower open for Friday. The Dow Jones industrial average futures were down 76 points around 7 p.m.
 ''The Fed can talk all day about how the discount rate hike is technical and not a policy move, but the market sees it as a shot across the bow,'' Christopher S. Rupkey, chief financial economist at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New York, told Reuters. 
 Still, the positive economic news from earlier in the day helped counteract an increase in unemployment claims in investors' minds.
 On Thursday, the government offered a broad -- and mostly encouraging -- snapshot of the economy's health: manufacturing in the Philadelphia region picked up and wholesale prices rose, but not by enough to sound alarms on inflation. 
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 0.81 percent, or 83.66 points, to 10,392.90. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 0.66 percent, or 7.24 points, to 1,106.75. The Nasdaq climbed 0.69 percent, or 15.42 points, to 2,241.71.
 A surge in price for industrial metals -- copper climbed nearly 2 percent -- helped lead a rally for shares of materials companies. 
 Oil prices rose 1.73 to $79.06 a barrel in New York trading. Copper prices also rose sharply.
 A report released Thursday recorded the sixth month of gains for manufacturing in the Philadelphia region, raising hopes that factories were on track to help drive a recovery.
 As the government continues to spend billions in economic stimulus, and interest rates remain near zero, some investors worry that inflation could imperil the recovery. Despite data on Thursday showing a 1.4 percent increase in producer prices in January, economists said inflation remained largely subdued.
 The biggest concern for many investors is the labor market. The economy continues to lose jobs, and the unemployment rate was 9.7 percent last month. And on Thursday the government reported an unexpectedly large increase in the number of people filing new unemployment claims last week.
 In addition, sales at Wal-Mart's stores in the United States fell in the fourth quarter, sending the company's shares down more than 1 percent. The retailer, a national bellwether, also said the economy ''remains challenging for many of our customers.''
 The challenge on Wall Street is finding the momentum for a rally. European and Asian markets have shot up in recent days, but American investors have reacted warily because trading has been light.
 ''We're a little reluctant to trust the recent bounce,'' said Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist for Key Private Bank. 
 ''The recovery is ongoing, but it's at a slower pace than past recoveries, and that opens the possibility to more general disappointment,'' he said.
 Economic data has been bright lately, but not sufficient to erase worries about the health of the jobs market and the chronically troubled housing market. 
 There is still talk that after an energetic rally for stocks last year -- the major indexes soared more than 20 percent -- the market may be in store for a steeper downturn as it adjusts to the reality of a halting recovery.
 The major indexes remain about 4 percent off their highs on Jan. 19. After flirting with 8 percent losses this month, stocks have regained ground. 
 The Treasury's 10-year note rose 17/32, to 98 18/32. The yield fell to 3.80 percent, from 3.73 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); FUTURES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COPPER MARKETS (77%); COPPER INDUSTRY (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); RETAILERS (63%)

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (70%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (70%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



496 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Climate Chief Quits, Deepening Sense of Disarray

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR and JOHN M. BRODER; Neil MacFarquhar reported from the United Nations, and John M. Broder from Washington.

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
The sense of disarray in the global effort to address climate change deepened Thursday with the resignation of Yvo de Boer, the stolid Dutch bureaucrat who led the international climate change negotiations over four tumultuous years.
 His departure, which takes effect on July 1, comes after a largely unsuccessful meeting in Copenhagen in December that was supposed to produce a binding international treaty but instead generated mostly acrimony and a series of unenforceable pledges by nations to reduce their global warming emissions.
 Mr. de Boer did not directly link his decision to step down to the chaos at Copenhagen. But he was known to be frustrated and exhausted by the meeting's failures. His resignation was seen by some as a further sign that the United Nations framework, which for almost two decades has been viewed as the best approach to tackling global warming, may have outlived its usefulness. And it raised questions about whether any significant progress toward a global treaty would be made by December, when the next United Nations climate talks are to be held in Cancun, Mexico. 
 ''If Yvo de Boer thought that there would be a legally binding treaty at the end of this year, I suspect he would be sticking around to take some of the credit for it,'' said Michael A. Levi, an expert on climate change at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''He has put in a lot of time toward a very well-defined end.''
 The international climate effort has been hampered by tensions between the world's two largest emitters of greenhouse gases, the United States and China, over how to measure and report emissions. The United States, which had promised to lead global climate talks, appears nowhere near passing legislation to control its own climate-altering pollution, and China, now the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases, seems determined to go its own way.
 At the same time, the scientific underpinnings of the global effort to address climate change have been under steady attack in recent months. Those who are skeptical of global warming science have been invigorated by a small number of errors in the landmark 2007 report from the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The head of that panel, Rajendra K. Pachauri, is facing criticism for those mistakes as well as accusations of conflicts of interest for taking consulting fees from business interests. (Dr. Pachauri has said that he donates all such fees to the nonprofit research institute in New Delhi that he runs.)
 ''We have seen a situation where the politics of climate change are really, really difficult among a number of key actors, and nobody, not even Mr. de Boer, was able to cut through that,'' said Kim Carstensen, the director of the Global Climate Initiative of the World Wildlife Fund. 
 Janos Pasztor, the top climate change adviser for the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, said that Mr. de Boer called Mr. Ban two days ago to inform him of the decision. Mr. Pasztor rejected the idea that Mr. de Boer's resignation was linked either to the lack of an outcome at Copenhagen or to the controversy over the intergovernmental panel. But others noted that, although the international system might have been at fault for Copenhagen's failures, some rancor was inevitably directed at Mr. de Boer, as the United Nations' central representative, and it probably speeded his departure. 
 ''It is probably the right time to get a fresh face in. It has been a pretty grueling two years from Bali to Copenhagen,'' said Mark Kenber, the policy director for the Climate Group, an international organization pushing for a climate change agreement. ''A fresh face would respark the whole process.'' 
 Some critics said that the United Nations should have moved faster to find areas where agreement among the more than 190 nations gathered at Copenhagen could be reached -- rainforest preservation, for example -- and designated a smaller, more manageable forum to negotiate more intractable issues blocking the talks. And Mr. de Boer, some said, was perceived as too confrontational by some nations, and some saw him as too enthusiastic in raising expectations for an international treaty, even after it became obvious that no such treaty would be forthcoming. 
 ''His role as much as anything else was to be a cheerleader,'' Mr. Kenber said. ''It was probably the right thing to do; maybe he was too effusive.''
 The renewed debate over the science may have also contributed to the pressures on Mr. de Boer, other critics noted. 
 In a statement announcing his departure, Mr. de Boer expressed disappointment about the Copenhagen talks and said that while governments could provide a framework for action on climate, the solutions must come from the businesses that produce and consume the fuels that add to global warming. 
 ''Copenhagen did not provide us with a clear agreement in legal terms, but the political commitment and sense of direction toward a low-emissions world are overwhelming,'' said Mr. de Boer, whose formal title is executive secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. 
 Even before the Copenhagen meltdown -- the American climate negotiator Todd Stern called it a ''snarling, aggravated, chaotic event'' -- global leaders were exploring other avenues for addressing the climate problem.
 The United States last year assembled a group of 17 nations called the Major Economies Forum, which took up climate as one of its major issues and which will continue discussions in parallel to the United Nations process. The Group of 20 also put climate change on its agenda. France, Mexico, Norway and others are looking for ways to address discrete aspects of the issue, including financing for low-carbon development projects. And many nations, including the United States and China, are embarking on bilateral energy projects, wholly independent of the United Nations, with the goal of reducing emissions and developing nonpolluting alternatives.
 ''The U.N. system has significant weaknesses and it is probably important to develop ways to have dialogues in other, more narrow forums where we don't have 180 people around the table at the same time,'' Mr. Carstensen said. 
 No one was more frustrated with the Copenhagen talks than Mr. de Boer, who had traveled incessantly for four years trying to prod nations to produce a treaty on global warming by the end of 2009. In a statement, the United Nations said Mr. de Boer was joining KPMG, an international consulting group, as global adviser on climate and sustainability. 
 In an interview in Amsterdam on Thursday with The Associated Press, he said that the high point of his tenure at the United Nations was the agreement in Bali at the end of 2007 under which nations agreed to a December 2009 deadline to produce a worldwide treaty. That treaty was to have been signed at Copenhagen, which produced instead a much weaker political agreement after nearly two weeks of bitter and largely fruitless argument. Participants refused to ratify the three-page Copenhagen Accord that emerged from the meeting, agreeing only to ''take note'' of it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yvo de Boer in Copenhagen in December for the climate change talks. He has led climate change negotiations for four years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ATTILA KISBENEDEK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); LEGISLATION (63%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (69%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (86%); MEXICO (79%); INDIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



497 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Dispels Inflation Fears

BYLINE: By AGNES T. CRANE and ROBERT CYRAN

 BODY:
Fears of deflation in the United States have abated, replaced by worries that rampant inflation could take hold. But the experience of Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, is a reminder that, for now, the battle on the ground is still against corrosive falling prices, not rising ones. 
 The retailer's same-store sales in the United States dropped 2 percent in the quarter ending in January compared with a year earlier, the company said Thursday, largely because of price declines on food items and consumer electronics. This isn't a new story for Wal-Mart. Deflation has dogged it for a year or more. 
 So much for America's Main Street. Closer to the bailed-out halls of high finance, thoughts are turning to the dangers of inflation. The broader economy escaped the feared deflationary spiral thanks in large part to the trillions of taxpayer dollars thrown at the financial system. But some fear that the stimulus and government borrowing could eventually feed hyperinflation. 
 Thomas Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, who dissented at the last Federal Open Market Committee meeting when interest rates were kept near zero, said this week that runaway prices were not outside the realm of possibility. 
 That doesn't have to be inconsistent with what Wal-Mart had to say. The company expects price declines to ease in the coming quarters, a trend that by should eventually flip into price rises. But the company's report is a reminder that its customers are still suffering from high unemployment and a depressed housing market. With consumers in poor shape and new jobs scarce, one significant driver of inflation, consumer spending, is missing. 
 That's not to say inflation won't pick up. Global stimulus efforts are raising the prices of commodities, for instance. And Wal-Mart's customers will eventually have more to spend. But if the retailer can be trusted as a consumer bellwether, serious inflationary pressure could be further off than the hawks expect.
 The Dividend Case
 Verizon Wireless has thus far used its prodigious cash flow to acquire rivals like Alltel and pay down debt. Its parent, Verizon, has encouraged that, rather than share a dividend payout from its mobile subsidiary with its minority partner Vodafone. But this policy can't last much longer, because Verizon will soon need cash. 
 Verizon Wireless could pay out a substantial dividend to Verizon, a 55 percent owner, and to Vodafone, which owns the remaining 45 percent. The wireless unit is set to generate about $12 billion of free cash flow this year. But by limiting its subsidiary's payouts, Verizon raises the pressure on Vodafone to sell it more of the unit, something Verizon's chief executive, Ivan Seidenberg, said in January he was open to if the price was right.
 Verizon can't afford to use this lever for too much longer. It had about $2 billion of cash at the end of 2009. The company will receive another $5 billion in the coming months as a loan extended to the wireless arm is repaid. But this pile is already largely spent. Verizon's landline operations may be burning almost $700 million a year by 2011, according to Barclays. Meanwhile Verizon needs $5 billion if it is to maintain the dividend it pays out to shareholders. 
 This year isn't a problem, but next year things could get tougher. Even with capital expenditures due to decline by $2 billion, it's not clear the group will generate enough cash to continue shareholder payouts at that level in 2011. 
 Of course, Verizon could take on more debt. Unfortunately, though, borrowing at the parent while a subsidiary piles up cash earning relatively little interest isn't efficient, and Verizon Wireless is on track to pay down its own $22 billion of debt in about two years. 
 Verizon could also raise funds by selling traditional telephone assets. Yet prices for those assets continue to fall. Selling chunks of its network may not bolster cash flow much, either. Frontier Communications has, for example, promised Verizon $3.3 billion for landlines in 14 states, but that may come in the form of debt, not upfront cash.
 Put it all together, and before long something has to give at Verizon. The most likely concession will be for Verizon Wireless to start paying a dividend.
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Verizon Wireless may soon be providing its parent with a big cash dividend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); DEFLATION (92%); RETAILERS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (87%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TRENDS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); BAILOUTS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); DIVIDENDS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTEREST RATES (51%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%); VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (82%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

PERSON: IVAN SEIDENBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



498 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Pacts Signed To Help River And Salmon

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
What supporters are calling the largest river and salmon restoration effort in American history took a critical step forward on Thursday, when formal agreements were signed to remove four dams and revise how water is shared in the Klamath River basin in southern Oregon and Northern California. 
 The dams, which have provided hydroelectric power and water for farm irrigation for decades, have caused severe depletions in salmon populations in the 250-mile river, hurting Indian tribes in the area and helping force shutdowns of some West Coast commercial fishing. 
 In 2001, farmers were angered when irrigation was cut off to provide more water for salmon migrating up the river to spawn. The next year, irrigation was restored, only to have tens of thousands of fish die. The roller coaster increased tension but eventually led to talks. The basic outlines of the agreements became final in November 2008 under the Bush administration.
 The agreements would remove the four dams by 2020 if a series of federal studies and Congressional approval and appropriations follow suit; the interior secretary is to make a final decision on removal by March 2012. 
 The agreements were signed by Gov. Theodore R. Kulongoski of Oregon, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, Greg Abel, the chief executive of PacifiCorp, the power company that owns the dams, and more than 30 groups representing tribes, farmers, fishermen and environmentalists. Some tribes and environmental groups refused to sign, citing questions over water flow for salmon and the timing of dam removal.
 Describing the long standoff over the Klamath as ''an intractable water war,'' Mr. Salazar said in a conference call with reporters that the agreements ''can become a template'' for other water and environmental disputes. He said he was optimistic Congress would act this year.
 Economics were critical to the agreements for PacifiCorp, which faced spending hundreds of millions of dollars to improve passage over the dams for salmon. The dams provide power for about 70,000 homes.
 The expected cost of dam removal and basin restoration is about $1.5 billion. Oregon has already committed about $200 million. California will ask voters to contribute $250 million through a ballot initiative this fall, though supporters say the state could find other means to pay if the measure fails. Congress will be asked to supply the rest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (91%); HISTORY (90%); IRRIGATION (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); LAND RECLAMATION (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); WATER RIGHTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); APPROVALS (67%); REFERENDUMS (60%); BALLOTS (60%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: PACIFICORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: TED KULONGOSKI (57%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%); KEN SALAZAR (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



499 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Tax Law Was Cited in Software Engineer's Suicide Note

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
In his suicide note, the computer software engineer who flew a small plane into a building with Internal Revenue Service offices in Texas on Thursday cited a 1986 tax law as a major motivation for his action. 
 The law, known as Section 1706 of the 1986 Tax Reform Act, made it extremely difficult for information technology professionals to work as self-employed individuals, forcing most to become company employees.
Many software engineers and other such professionals say that the law denies them the opportunity to become wealthy entrepreneurs and that it makes it harder to increase and refine their skills, eventually diminishing their income.
 Harvey J. Shulman, a Washington lawyer who represented companies that supported the desires of software engineers to be independent contractors, estimated that the law currently affects at least 100,000 such people.
 ''This law has ruined many people's lives, hurt the technology industry, and discouraged the creation of small, independent businesses critical to a thriving domestic economy,'' Mr. Shulman said in an interview Thursday. ''That the law still exists -- even after its original sponsors called for its repeal and unbiased studies proved it unfairly targeted a tax-compliant industry -- shows just how dysfunctional and unresponsive Democratic and Republican Congresses and our political system have been, even on relatively simple issues.'' 
 The law was sponsored by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, as a favor to I.B.M., which wanted a $60 million tax break on its overseas business. 
 Under budget rules in effect at the time, any tax breaks had to be paid for with new revenues. By requiring software engineers to be employees, a Congressional report estimated, income and payroll taxes would rise by $60 million a year because employees had few opportunities to cheat on their taxes.
 One year later, convinced that the law was not bringing in the expected revenue, Senator Moynihan proposed that it be repealed, but his bill died. Over the next eight years or so, Congress held at least six hearings on the law. In 1996, the staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation, which prepares official tax revenue estimates for Congress, calculated that repeal of the law would cause an insignificant revenue loss. Mr. Shulman testified at the time that it would actually increase revenues as engineers, job brokers and others built successful businesses.
 Seventy senators, ranging from Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, to Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, then signed a letter calling for repeal.
 In 1998 Senator William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who was chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said through an aide that he believed the law should be repealed, but that he would not take any action because it would ''open a Pandora's box of other independent contractor issues.''
 On Wednesday, the day before Andrew Joseph Stack III left his suicide note and crashed the plane into the building in Austin, the Obama administration proposed a widespread crackdown on all types of independent contractors in an effort to raise $7 billion in tax revenue over 10 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (94%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); SUICIDE (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); LAWYERS (74%); TAX FRAUD (73%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); POLITICS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



500 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: More Shake-Ups at the Ailing Philadelphia Orchestra

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
The Philadelphia Orchestra, facing severe financial problems and searching for a music director, received some mixed news this week. 
 Charles Dutoit, the conductor who has been serving as a musical caretaker, is resigning as leader of its summer concerts in Saratoga, N. Y. At the same time, the orchestra's Philadelphia landlord, the Kimmel Center, announced budget cuts that could lead to a break on the rent it pays. 
 The Saratoga Performing Arts Center announced on Wednesday that Mr. Dutoit would step down as artistic director for the Philadelphia Orchestra's concerts there. He will remain as the orchestra's chief conductor; that contract expires at the end of the 2011-12 season. The orchestra has been without a music director since Christoph Eschenbach departed after the 2007-08 season. 
 Mr. Dutoit, 73, has led the Saratoga concerts since 1990. He recently married Chantal Juillet, 49, who played in the Montreal Symphony Orchestra when Mr. Dutoit was its music director. In 1991 Ms. Juillet became music director of the Saratoga Chamber Music Festival. The center also announced her departure; this summer will be the last for Mr. Dutoit and Ms. Juillet in their positions at Saratoga.
 Mr. Dutoit officially works for the Saratoga Performing Arts Center, which will choose his successor. Allison Vulgamore, the Philadelphia Orchestra's president, who took on the position last month, said she was assured by center officials that she would be involved in the decision.
 ''Marcia has been very much about dialogue,'' she said, referring to Marcia White, her counterpart at Saratoga.
 Separately, the Kimmel Center in Philadelphia said it was eliminating 15 jobs, including two vice presidencies, and cutting back on the number of offerings at its performance spaces. The Philadelphia Orchestra plays at Kimmel's Verizon Hall.
 The moves should amount to savings of about $1.4 million a year, said Anne Ewers, Kimmel's president. Kimmel's budget this year is about $33 million. Ms. Ewers said the cost-cutting was partly designed to ease the financial pressures on its residents, who pay rent and other costs. Along with the orchestra, they include the Opera Company of Philadelphia, the Pennsylvania Ballet, the Chamber Orchestra of Philadelphia, American Theater Arts for Youth, Philadanco, the Philadelphia Chamber Music Society, and Peter Nero and the Philly Pops. 
 With the recession, ''our resident companies really, frankly, could no longer pay the costs of being here,'' Ms. Ewers said. She said it was too early to discuss any rent relief for the Philadelphia Orchestra because Ms. Vulgamore had only recently arrived and they had not had much opportunity to talk.
 ''Our intent is to help everybody,'' Ms. Ewers said. The orchestra's rent was $2.5 million for the 2008-09 season, which included $750,000 in costs for labor provided by Kimmel.
 Ms. Ewers said that a renovation of Verizon Hall to improve its much-lamented acoustics was still planned for the summer.
 The Philadelphia Orchestra could use the rent relief. Its officials have openly discussed the possibility of bankruptcy. In figures provided on Thursday, the orchestra said it was anticipating a budget deficit this season of $3.7 million on a projected operating budget of $44.2 million. 
 The past two yearly deficits each amounted to nearly as much, and were covered by transfers from the endowment, which dropped to $141.8 million by the end of last season, down from $191.5 million two years before. Attendance is off too, to 63 percent from 80 percent of capacity last season. On the plus side, the orchestra said it had no bank debt or outstanding bond issues.
 Many major orchestras have suffered similar shortfalls and declines in endowment as the economy worsened.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); OPERA (63%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (94%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



501 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Higher Energy Costs Lift Producer Prices

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
With interest rates at low levels, inflation hawks have warned that price increases may be around the corner. While a government report on Thursday heightened those concerns, economists said inflation still remained largely in check. 
 Producer prices in the United States increased 1.4 percent in January -- outpacing expectations of a 0.8 percent jump -- mostly because of an increase in gasoline prices. Excluding volatile food and energy costs, the increase was 0.3 percent, compared with a forecast of 0.1 percent.
 Even the small fluctuations in price levels were enough to prompt talk of creeping inflation. While economists emphasized the need to remain vigilant about prices, they agreed that inflation was not an immediate concern. 
 In addition, the Federal Reserve took its first step to normalizing lending on Thursday by raising the interest rate it charges on emergency loans to banks.
 ''We're going to be generally grinding toward higher inflation,'' said Conrad F. DeQuadros, an economist for RDQ Economics. ''Will it hit problematic levels in 2010? I don't think so. But it does have the potential for uncomfortably high inflation readings down the road.''
 Economists attributed much of the rise in wholesale prices, measured by the government's Producer Price Index, to an 11.5 percent jump in gasoline prices, the result of rising fuel costs.
 The unexpected increase in nonfood and energy prices was partly caused by a 1.9 increase in the cost of light trucks. Those prices tend to be volatile, economists said. 
 Much of the focus lately has been on the Federal Reserve's plans to withdraw measures used to combat the financial crisis. But economists do not expect policy makers to begin raising short-term interest rates until there are firmer signs of improvement in the jobs market. Unemployment remains at 9.7 percent, and the economy is still shedding jobs.
 On Thursday, a separate report showed the number of people filing first-time unemployment claims last week was much higher than expected -- 473,000, up 31,000 from the previous week. That increase rekindled worries that the labor market would be slow to bounce back, even though it has gradually improved in recent months.
 ''It's all about uncertainties facing businesses: uncertainty about the strength of the recovery, uncertainty about tax liability, uncertainty about health care reform,'' Mr. DeQuadros said. ''The labor market is improving, but we're still not at levels suggesting that we are creating jobs.''
 Economists also were debating the effect of recent East Coast snowstorms on the weekly jobless report. Some said it probably meant fewer people were able to file unemployment claims because government offices were closed; others said it probably had a limited effect because many people file claims via the Internet.
 Still, analysts said the government's monthly employment report, scheduled to be released the first week of next month, would probably be weaker than expected because of the weather. The government surveyed employers last week about the state of their businesses, asking how many employees had worked that week and how many hours they had contributed. Those numbers were probably uncharacteristically low in some areas because of the snow.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Economists attributed much of the rise in producer prices to an 11.5 percent jump in fuel costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Producer Prices: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Labor Department)
 Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCER PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (85%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); WEATHER (70%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); JOB CREATION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



502 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: City's Affordable Housing Program Faces Trouble Finding Buyers

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
For all the booms and busts he has lived through, Vincent Riso never thought it would come to this: Offering free 42-inch, flat-screen televisions to lure buyers into government-subsidized homes. 
 Historically, such homes have sold quickly. But not at Waters Edge at Arverne, a stretch of 130 town house condominiums Mr. Riso's company, the Briarwood Organization, built between Far Rockaway's boardwalk and the A train's rust-streaked overpass in Queens. 
 So last spring, Briarwood, which got $12.8 million in city and state subsidies for Waters Edge, began throwing in as much as seven months' free maintenance on some units, along with the TV. Still, as of mid-February, roughly three years after the units began arriving on the market, 22 of them had yet to sell. 
 The city has received accolades nationwide for its efforts to provide housing affordable to middle- and lower-income households. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has pledged to build, save or restore 165,000 such housing units by 2014. But while the city is still filling up low-income rentals, the housing program is struggling on the ownership front. 
 Sales are sluggish at some projects, particularly ones in poorer neighborhoods aimed at middle-income buyers. Few units will be built any time soon: since July 2008, the city has made only two deals with developers for new home ownership projects, down from two dozen deals in the 12 months before that. 
 Last summer, Mr. Bloomberg and the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, unveiled the city's Housing Asset Renewal Program, or HARP, setting aside $20 million for developers who agreed to drop the prices of unsold market-rate condos. But the program drew far fewer applications than the city had expected -- just five by the Dec. 31 cutoff -- so the deadline was extended. 
 City housing officials and developers said the reasons for the slowdown were clear. Financing for new buildings has dried up. The HARP program has yet to catch on because developers and lenders were unwilling to cut into profits they were expecting to make. Would-be homebuyers remained hesitant to make the leap, and, crucially, mortgages were harder to get. 
 Developers of higher-priced affordable housing were especially hurt by the housing crash, which caused price differences between their units and market-rate homes to narrow. In addition, market-rate homes do not have the resale restrictions that the affordable homes often have. 
 Rafael E. Cestero, the city's housing commissioner, said that during the housing boom, when financing for many projects was lined up, higher-priced units like those at Waters Edge ''were deeply affordable'' compared with what was then on the market. ''We had no idea what was going to happen,'' he said.
 Denise Scott, managing director for New York's Local Initiatives Support Corporation, said her agency's nonprofit partners were struggling to sell 95 refurbished houses and condos in Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn, Jamaica in Queens, and Morrisania in the Bronx, all city subsidized and costing $250,000 to $350,000. Some have been sitting on the market for 18 months, she said, even though their prices were cut from 15 percent to 30 percent. 
 Ms. Scott said that demand was down but that the biggest impediment was banks' unwillingness to issue mortgages.
 Samuel G. Gaccione, executive vice president for the TNS Development Group, said his group planned upgrades at the Shelton, a subsidized building under construction in Bedford-Stuyvesant -- granite countertops, stainless-steel appliances, hardwood floors -- to prepare for a bad market and buyer trepidation. 
 But the fact that some homes are standing vacant in struggling neighborhoods has caused some to question the wisdom of putting them there in the first place. Waters Edge occupies the highest strata of what the city defined as affordable: Three-bedroom units are going for up to $344,000 in a neighborhood where the median income is $45,221, according to census data.
 Javier Valdes, deputy director of the community advocacy group Make the Road New York, based in Bushwick, Brooklyn, said the city should change how it calculated affordable income limits. Generally, people eligible for low-income subsidized units can earn up to 80 percent of what is known as the region's ''area median income,'' which in 2009 was $76,800. Moderate-income housing is open to people earning from 80 percent to 120 percent, and middle-income housing is open to people earning 120 percent to 175 percent. 
 But those income figures are based on a broad region that includes Long Island and Putnam, Rockland and Westchester Counties. Mr. Valdes said affordability should be determined by neighborhood. In Bushwick, the median income is $32,328, according to census figures. 
 ''We understand the difficulty and the balancing act the city has to play, to provide affordable housing to middle and lower income,'' Mr. Valdes said. ''But if condos are sitting unsold, we do want them given to people who are from the community.''
 Mr. Cestero, the housing commissioner, said the city had long worked to create economically diverse neighborhoods and could not have anticipated the housing bust. He said only a few hundred homes remained unsold and noted that the foreclosure rate among city-subsidized homes was just 0.06 percent. ''I don't look back and think our strategy was wrong,'' he said. ''I think our strategy was exactly right.''
 Some projects are doing well, especially lower-priced ones. At the Solara, which Briarwood put up in the South Bronx, 151 of the 160 units are under contract, after a year and a half on the market. Prices there range from $108,815 for a one-bedroom apartment to $202,217 for a three-bedroom.
 Seeing this trend, one development switched midstream. The Atlantic Terrace, an 80-unit building in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, built by the Fifth Avenue Committee, a community development group, was originally going to sell 59 units to families earning up to 165 percent of the area median income. 
 After the market collapsed, the group lined up an additional $2 million in subsidies to make the homes affordable to people earning far less. The lottery for the units drew 4,881 applicants.
 ''We read the tea leaves,'' said Michelle de la Uz, the group's executive director. 
 Despite the troubles, the city said that it was nearing the 100,000 mark in the number of affordable units created or preserved and that it was having little difficulty creating and filling rentals, which tend to be aimed at lower-income families and constitute two-thirds of the total. 
 Given the market, Mr. Cestero said, the city plans to concentrate on preservation and building mixed-income rentals. 
 In Far Rockaway, Mr. Riso said he was almost certain that the last 22 condos at Waters Edge would sell by summer. 
 On a recent day, with an Arctic wind whipping off the Atlantic, a rare sight came into view: a new buyer. Ronald Fields, 46, his wife, Naomi, and their 4-year-old son, Taiga, dropped by to see the three-bedroom home they were expecting to close on this month. 
 Mr. Fields, who works at the cable channel truTV, could not quite believe he was about to become a homeowner, after saving for a down payment for many years. 
 ''Two blocks from the beach, a new development, you can't beat it!'' Mr. Fields said. 
 And, he added, he was looking forward to that free TV.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article and a picture caption in some editions last Friday about sluggish sales at some developments participating in the city's affordable-housing program misidentified the location of Waters Edge at Arverne, a project in Queens that is offering free 42-inch, flat-screen television sets to lure condominium buyers. It is in Arverne, not Far Rockaway. (Both communities are part of the Rockaways.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ronald Fields, with his son, Taiga, toured the home he and his wife are planning to buy at the Waters Edge at Arverne. ''Two blocks from the beach,'' Mr. Fields said. ''You can't beat it!''
 Units at Waters Edge, city-subsidized condominiums in Far Rockaway, Queens, have sold much more slowly than expected. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITIES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); PRICE CUTTING (63%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



503 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Chief Agrees to Testify About Recalls Before a Congressional Panel

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY and MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The president of Toyota, Akio Toyoda, agreed on Thursday to appear before Congress next week to discuss the recall of millions of vehicles for sudden acceleration problems. The move puts him squarely in position for the first time as the company's chief advocate in Washington.
 Mr. Toyoda, the grandson of Toyota's founder, Kiichiro Toyoda, plans to testify Wednesday at a session held by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the second of three hearings on safety issues set for the next two weeks. 
 It will be Mr. Toyoda's most prominent appearance since he became the company's president last June, in the middle of a financial crisis. 
 His decision reverses Toyota's initial plan to send only executives from Toyota's American operations to the hearings, two in the House and one in the Senate.
 On Thursday morning, Edolphus Towns Jr., a Democrat of New York who is chairman of the committee, wrote to Mr. Toyoda inviting him to appear. Mr. Toyoda accepted the invitation Thursday afternoon.
 ''I look forward to speaking directly with Congress and the American people,'' Mr. Toyoda said in a statement.
 Safety regulators in Washington said this week that they would examine whether Toyota had acted quickly enough in recalling about 8.5 million vehicles after it found possible problems with their accelerator pedals. 
 Toyota says the pedals could become stuck or trapped under a floor mat, causing vehicles to accelerate unexpectedly. 
 ''There appears to be growing public confusion regarding which vehicles may be affected and how people should respond,'' Mr. Towns said in his letter to Mr. Toyoda. ''In short, the public is unsure as to what exactly the problem is, whether it is safe to drive their cars, or what they should do about it.''
 Mr. Toyoda's presence would help to clarify the situation. In a statement Thursday, Mr. Towns and the committee's ranking Republican member, Darrell E. Issa of California, said they welcomed his decision.
 ''We are pleased Mr. Toyoda accepted the invitation to testify before the committee,'' they said. ''We believe his testimony will be helpful in understanding the actions Toyota is taking to ensure the safety of American drivers.''
 Mr. Towns wrote in his earlier letter, ''As you know, there is widespread public concern regarding reports of sudden unintended acceleration in Toyota motor vehicles. Toyota has recalled millions of its vehicles and even halted production. In addition, there are reports that this problem may have been the direct cause of serious injury and even death.''
 Industry analysts and public relations specialists said it was vital for Mr. Toyoda to appear before Congress to demonstrate leadership. But company officials were reluctant to send him because of the contentious atmosphere that can often result.
 The chief executives of Detroit's automakers, as well as the Japanese tire maker Bridgestone/Firestone were summoned before Congress over the last decade, spending hours answering questions from lawmakers.
 James E. Lentz III, the president of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., is scheduled to speak on the company's behalf at the Tuesday hearing. Yoshimi Inaba, the chief executive of Toyota Motor North America, had been scheduled to appear before the oversight committee. 
 The Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, which holds its hearing March 2, has not released a list of those who will testify.
 The oversight committee also expanded its investigation Thursday by issuing a subpoena to a former lawyer for Toyota, Dimitrios Biller. 
 The committee sought documents relating to Toyota vehicle safety, its handling of defects and related litigation from Mr. Biller, who was the national managing counsel for Toyota in the United States from 2003-7. 
 He is suing the company, alleging wrongful termination and emotional distress, and accusing it of a ''culture of hypocrisy and deceit'' and of hiding proof of safety defects from regulators and the public. 
 Toyota said Mr. Biller's claims were ''inaccurate and misleading'' and that he would have ''no knowledge about Toyota'' since leaving three years ago.
 Separately, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration on Thursday opened an investigation into complaints about steering problems on the 2009 and 2010 Toyota Corolla sedan and Matrix crossover.
 The agency had received more than 200 complaints about the Corolla, which was the world's top-selling car last year and the most popular choice of American drivers who traded in gas guzzlers under the government's cash-for-clunkers program.
 Many of the complaints say the car can suddenly veer to the left or right at highway speeds.
 Twelve of the complaints relate to crashes, resulting in 12 injuries and no deaths. Six complaints said the car rolled over or came to rest on its side, and in three other crashes the car went over an embankment.
 Toyota this week said it was considering a Corolla recall, which would affect more than 500,000 vehicles in the United States. Most of them already are included in the floor mat and pedal recalls. In a statement, it said it would cooperate with the recall.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Akio Toyoda 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYOTA RECALLS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (90%); PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (57%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (58%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (58%); TM (NYSE) (58%); 7203 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: ED TOWNS (79%); DARRELL E ISSA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



504 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Food Is a Human Right

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The Feb. 10 editorial ''Hungry in America'' painted the impact of the recession in the most harrowing terms possible. In the United States, one in eight people is hungry, and the number of hungry people worldwide recently surpassed one billion. 
 While the acceleration of global hunger has created the need for short-term solutions, like soup kitchens, the notion of ''feeding people'' through charity is merely a Band-Aid. 
 Long-term food security in the United States and around the world requires that we rethink the global food system and emphasize sustainable agriculture at the local level. The farther our food has to travel to get from the farm into our kitchens, and the more stops it has to make along the way, the more expensive it becomes and the more vulnerable we all are.
 Food is a human right, yet we allow those in power to treat it as a commodity to be bought and sold by profiteers interested in a quick buck. We, the consumers, must demand that our policy makers create conditions that allow small-scale farmers around the world to compete with conglomerates and speculators on equal terms and enable local markets to flourish. 
 Ruth W. Messinger President American Jewish World Service New York, Feb. 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AGRICULTURE (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN JEWISH WORLD SERVICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



505 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Conservatives of All Stripes Gather, Emboldened but Far From Unanimous

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and KATE ZERNIKE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For 30 minutes on Thursday, Mitt Romney, a likely Republican candidate for president in 2012, offered a systematic indictment of what he described as the failed presidency of Barack Obama. A little earlier, a crowd of conservatives whooped in delight as a speaker made coy allusions to Mr. Obama's youthful experimentation with cocaine.
 Republican leaders took the stage at a conservative conference here to pay tribute to the Tea Party movement and soberly pledge to defeat Republicans who did not adhere to conservative views. Speaker after speaker drew hoots as they mocked Mr. Obama for his use of a teleprompter, seemingly oblivious to the teleprompter that rose from the floor before them. 
 The setting was the Conservative Political Action Conference, and it produced a sometimes incongruous meshing of mainstream Republicans -- presidential candidates, leaders of Congress, political thinkers -- with the often rowdy crowd of activists who have typically lent a slight air of the carnival to this long-time Washington political gathering.
 But the emergence of the Tea Party movement provided two striking changes at this session of CPAC, as the gathering is known. One year after being stunned by the election of Mr. Obama and the aggressive agenda he brought to Washington, and reading reports of their demise, conservatives are now clearly invigorated, and see in Mr. Obama's struggles a road back to power.
 At the same time, conservatives and Republican leaders face a challenge as they try to harness the Tea Party movement's energy and sudden influx of new faces and views. Speakers showed no hesitation in denouncing Republicans, often with the same intensity they brought in denouncing Democrats; Tea Party leaders made clear that Republicans could no longer count on the automatic backing of conservatives.
 ''I'm afraid we're causing a little trouble for the establishment,'' said Senator Jim DeMint, a South Carolina conservative who has created a committee that is financing conservative challenges to some Republican incumbents. ''You see, I believe in holding incumbent senators accountable to the principles they say they believe in. When Republican senators don't do the things they say they believe in, voters should have a choice of a new Republican -- a real Republican.''
 The session offered more tangible evidence, if Democrats needed it, of the emerging energy in the conservative movement. ''Hey guys, the conservative movement is alive and well; you can see it here,'' said Mr. Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2008 presidential candidate, as he surveyed the huge ballroom with most seats filled.
 Dick Cheney, the former vice president, drew a lengthy standing ovation after his daughter Liz introduced him as a surprise guest. But the crowd applauded just as loudly when Marco Rubio -- a Tea Party hero, who is challenging Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida for the Republican Senate nomination -- offered a 30-minute indictment of Mr. Obama's policies that summed up Tea Party views on taxes, federalism, Mr. Obama's health care plan and the handling of terrorists.
 ''They have used a severe economic recession as an excuse to implement the statist policies they have longed for all this time,'' Mr. Rubio said. ''They are using this downturn as cover not to fix America, but to try to change America.''
 Similarly, Senator Scott Brown, the Republican who pulled off an upset victory in Massachusetts and who in many ways has become a symbol of the Tea Party success, was greeted as nothing short of a conquering hero when he made a surprise visit.
 The remark about Mr. Obama's experimentation with cocaine came from Jason Mattera, author of a forthcoming book called ''Obama Zombies: How the Liberal Machine Brainwashed My Generation,'' as he likened the CPAC gathering to ''our Woodstock.''
 ''Except that unlike the last gathering, our women are beautiful, we speak in complete sentences and our notion of freedom doesn't consist of snorting cocaine,'' Mr. Mattera said, ''which is certainly one thing that separates us from Barack Obama.''
 Evidence of the influence of the Tea Party appeared at a panel featuring lessons from Tea Party activists, and another on the 10th Amendment and protecting state sovereignty, which are central causes of the Tea Party groups. 
 What was billed as a ''Real Tea Party'' was scheduled for Friday, Day 2 of the conference. There was a discussion on the ''rant heard 'round the world,'' which is how many Tea Party activists refer to the call by Rick Santelli, a CNBC reporter, a year ago Friday for a new Tea Party, which started the first mass rallies.
 But the conservative celebration does not necessarily translate into Republican power. If anything, it may complicate things for Republicans, as Mr. DeMint noted. 
 FreedomWorks, the advocacy group led by the former House Republican leader Dick Armey that has been an incubator for Tea Party groups, held a news conference to endorse a primary challenger to Senator Robert F. Bennett in Utah, even as Mr. Armey pleaded with the group not to get torn up in power struggles.
 ''Please don't let us get into a contest to see who's top dog,'' Mr. Armey said. ''We don't need a top dog, we're all pulling together. Please let's stay focused.'' 
 Still, while he urged people to ''stay civil among each other,'' Mr. Armey also reminded conservatives not to let themselves be silenced. ''Be assertive and let them know we mean business.''
 And some of those at the conference advocate positions that might be problematic for more mainstream Republicans.
 At one point, Mr. DeMint attacked the federal income tax, noting that the Constitution did not originally allow it. (The 16th Amendment, ratified in 1913, did.)
 ''The Constitution, when it was signed, it did not even allow a federal income tax,'' he said.
 ''Right!'' shouted one man in the audience.
 ''And that sounds like a good way to limit the size of the federal government,'' Mr. DeMint said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Speakers at the Conservative Political Action Conference on Thursday included Dick Armey, left, the former House Republican leader, and Marco Rubio, a Senate candidate in Florida. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); CONSERVATISM (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INDICTMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); COCAINE (71%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JIM DEMINT (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); MARCO RUBIO (58%); CHARLIE CRIST (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



506 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Bipartisan Commission Is Established To Cut Debt

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama on Thursday officially established a bipartisan commission to propose ways by December to rein in the growing national debt, despite reluctance in both parties to tackling the politically charged issue in a midterm election year. 
 The Congressional Republican leaders, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, after weeks of criticizing the idea as a door to tax increases, signaled in separate statements that they would participate in forming the commission without setting preconditions. Each will name three lawmakers to the 18-member panel next week, aides said.
 Mr. Obama signed an executive order establishing the panel three weeks after the Senate rejected bipartisan legislation to create a similar panel. As he did so, he was flanked at the White House by his choices for co-chairmen, Alan K. Simpson, a former Republican Senate leader from Wyoming, and Erskine B. Bowles, a centrist Democrat from North Carolina who was President Bill Clinton's White House chief of staff.
 ''There are some on the left who believe that this issue can be deferred,'' Mr. Obama said. ''There are some on the right who won't enter into serious discussions about deficits without preconditions. But those who preach fiscal discipline have to be willing to take the hard steps necessary to achieve it.'' 
 Republicans have complained that Mr. Obama is trying to make it appear in an election year that he is doing something about high annual deficits, which have become a big issue for independent voters especially. Yet whether or not the commission succeeds in sending proposals to Congress after Dec. 1, its deliberations will force both parties to address whether to raise more revenues and make long-range reductions in Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security -- the tough steps many economists say are essential to controlling a debt growing larger than the economy. 
 The president's economic advisers were the main supporters of a commission; his political advisers initially were opposed. So were liberal Democrats in Congress, including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, largely out of protectiveness over entitlement programs. But Mrs. Pelosi and the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, have agreed to put any commission plan to a vote, though the House would vote only if the Senate first approved a package.
 The commission will have 10 Democrats and 8 Republicans. In addition to the Republicans' six picks, it will include six chosen by Democratic leaders and six by Mr. Obama. Besides Mr. Simpson and Mr. Bowles, Mr. Obama will name another Republican and three more Democrats.
 Republicans had said the panel should be evenly split. But Mr. Obama proposed that 14 of the 18 members would have to support any recommendations, effectively giving Republicans a veto. 
 Mr. Obama's order directs the commission to recommend how to balance the budget by the 2015 fiscal year, not counting interest on the national debt. Those unavoidable and growing costs are projected to be nearly 3 percent of the size of the economy that year, which would mean a deficit that many economists consider the maximum acceptable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); VETO (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); ERSKINE BOWLES (59%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); HARRY REID (57%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



507 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: IN SURPRISE MOVE, FED SIGNALS PIVOT TO NORMAL POLICY

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Taking a step to normalize lending after holding interest rates to extraordinary lows for more than a year to prop up the financial system, the Federal Reserve on Thursday raised the interest rate it charges on short-term loans to banks.
 While the central bank had signaled its intentions to take such a step, the timing was a surprise. The announcement was made after the stock market had closed in a carefully worded statement that emphasized that the Fed was not yet ready to begin a broad tightening of credit that would affect businesses and consumers as they struggle to recover from the economic crisis.
 But while the move will not directly affect home mortgage, credit card or auto loan rates, it was a clear sign to the markets, politicians in Washington and the country as a whole that the era of extraordinarily cheap money necessitated by the crisis was drawing gradually to a close.
 The Fed's board of governors raised the discount rate on loans made directly to banks by a quarter of a percentage point, to 0.75 percent from 0.50 percent, effective Friday. 
 It also took two steps to begin unwinding its efforts to keep the banking system functioning after the real estate bubble inflicted huge losses that were amplified by sophisticated bets made by Wall Street. 
 Given the slow and uneven nature of the recovery, an unemployment rate close to 10 percent and fears of a new wave of mortgage defaults, particularly in commercial real estate, few economists expect the Fed to begin a campaign of broader interest rate increases quickly or sharply. The central bank reaffirmed last month that the key short-term interest rate it controls would remain ''exceptionally low'' for an ''extended period,'' language it has used since March.
 While borrowing by banks from the Fed's discount window has already fallen to more historically normal levels from its peak in October 2008, many small and medium-size businesses still find it difficult to obtain loans, a major concern of the Obama administration and Congress.
 Randall S. Kroszner, an economist at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago and a former Fed governor, said after the announcement: ''This is a technical change that makes sense as a precondition for other changes, but is not a precursor of short-term change.'' 
 Having taken a baby step toward a return to normalcy, the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, now faces a delicate dance in the months ahead. 
 The central bank will try to drain from the financial system some of the money it created to keep banks and the economy afloat over the last two years. And at some point it will begin putting upward pressure on interest rates by raising its benchmark fed funds rate, the rate at which banks lend to each other overnight. 
 Uncertainty surrounds the timing and sequence of those steps. Mr. Bernanke is scheduled to present the Fed's semiannual monetary policy report to the House on Wednesday and the Senate on Thursday -- testimony the markets will watch closely.
 As part of the changes disclosed Thursday, the Fed announced that the typical maximum maturity for primary credit loans, in which banks borrow from the discount window, would be shortened to overnight, from 28 days, starting March 18. 
 The Fed also raised the minimum bid rate for its term auction facility -- a temporary program started in December 2007 to ease short-term lending -- to 0.50 percent from 0.25 percent. 
 The central bank took pains to reiterate that it was not moving in a sudden new direction. 
 ''The modifications are not expected to lead to tighter financial conditions for households and businesses and do not signal any change in the outlook for the economy or for monetary policy,'' the Fed said in its statement. 
 Despite that attempt at reassurance, there were some early signs after the announcement that investors were already beginning to anticipate broader interest rate increases. Stock futures fell in after-hours trading; yields on 10-year Treasury notes rose about seven basis points, or seven-hundredths of a percentage point, to 3.8 percent; and the dollar gained slightly. 
 The discount rate applies to loans the Fed makes for very short terms, to sound depository institutions, as a backup source of financing. 
 The Fed's action represents a widening of the spread between the discount rate and the upper end of the target fed funds rate. The two rates typically move in lockstep, and were a percentage point apart before the crisis.
 In an effort to encourage banks to come to it for funds to maintain their stability during the crisis, the Fed sought to make borrowing from the discount window more attractive than usual -- and to reduce the stigma associated with borrowing from the Fed. As the fed funds rate went as low as it could go, the Fed reduced the spread between the two rates to half a percentage point in August 2007 and then to a quarter point in March 2008.
 When the target range for the fed funds rate was lowered to zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008, the discount rate dropped to 0.50 percent, its lowest level since World War II. 
 In testimony Mr. Bernanke submitted to Congress on Feb. 10, he said that ''before long, we expect to consider a modest increase in the spread'' between the two rates.
 And on Wednesday, the Fed released minutes from the discussion of its main policy-making arm, the Federal Open Market Committee, at its last meeting, on Jan. 26-27. Those minutes showed a consensus that it would ''soon be appropriate'' to begin widening the spread. 
 Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor who runs a consulting firm, Macroeconomic Advisers, said the Fed had done its best to send clear signals. 
 ''If the markets respond to this on Friday, it will reflect a total lack of comprehension of what the chairman said,'' Mr. Meyer said. ''Don't they understand the meaning of soon?''
 The Fed said banks should use the discount window ''only as a backup source of funds.''
 And it left open the possibility of widening the spread further in the future, saying it ''will assess over time whether further increases in the spread are appropriate in view of experience'' with the new half-point spread.
 While liquidity for banks has been nursed back to health, many other sectors remain in a parlous state.
 Dennis P. Lockhart, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, said after the announcement that along with the increase in the discount rate and the phasing out of special loan programs, the Fed would complete its purchase of $1.25 trillion in mortgage-backed securities by the end of March.
 ''All of this is happening because stress in the financial system has abated,'' he told the Augusta Metro Chamber of Commerce in Georgia. 
 He added: ''My point is that the public and markets should not misinterpret today's move. Monetary policy, as evidenced by the fed funds rate target, remains accommodative. This stance is necessary to support a recovery that is in an early stage and, in my view, still fragile.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, has a balancing act ahead of him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) CHARTS: FEDERAL RESERVE DISCOUNT RATE: The increase to 0.75% from 0.50% takes effect on Friday. (Source: Bloomberg) (A1)
 Change in Monetary Policy: On Thursday, after the stock market closed, the Federal Reserve raised its discount rate -- the interest rate it charges banks to borrow money. But it left another key rate, the target rate for federal funds that banks borrow from each other, unchanged. (Source: Bloomberg) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); INTERBANK LENDING (73%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



508 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: States Consider Medicaid Cuts As Use Grows

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Facing relentless fiscal pressure and exploding demand for government health care, virtually every state is making or considering substantial cuts in Medicaid, even as Democrats push to add 15 million people to the rolls. 
 Because they are temporarily barred from reducing eligibility, states have been left to cut ''optional benefits,'' like dental and vision care, and reduce payments to doctors and other health care providers. 
 In some states, governors are trying to avoid the deepest cuts by pushing for increases in tobacco taxes or new levies on hospitals and doctors, but many of those proposals are running into election-year trouble in conservative legislatures.
 In Nevada, which faces an $881 million budget gap, Gov. Jim Gibbons, a Republican, proposed this month to end Medicaid coverage of adult day care, eyeglasses, hearing aids and dentures, and, for a savings of $829,304, to reduce the number of diapers provided monthly to incontinent adults (to 186 from 300). 
 ''We are down to the ugly list of options,'' the state's director of health and human services, Mike Willden, told a legislative committee last week.
 The Medicaid program already pays doctors and hospitals at levels well below those of Medicare and private insurance, and often below actual costs. Large numbers of doctors, therefore, do not accept Medicaid patients, and cuts may further discourage participation in the program, which primarily serves low-income children, disabled adults and nursing home residents.
 In Kansas, a 10 percent cut in provider payments that took effect on Jan. 1 has prompted such an outcry that Gov. Mark Parkinson, who imposed it, now wants to restore the money by raising tobacco and sales taxes.
 Even if Mr. Parkinson, a Democrat, overcomes resistance in his Republican-controlled Legislature, it will be too late for Dr. C. Joseph Beck, a Wichita ophthalmologist who informed his Medicaid patients last month that he could no longer afford to treat them. 
 Dr. Beck said that over eight months last year, his practice wrote off $36,000 in losses from treating 17 Medicaid patients. The state-imposed payment cut, he said, was ''the final straw.''
 ''I'm out, I'm done,'' Dr. Beck said in a telephone interview. ''I didn't want to. I want to take care of people. But I also have three children and many employees to take care of.''
 Concerns about health care costs are likely to dominate the winter meeting of the National Governors Association, which begins Saturday in Washington. 
 In advance of the gathering, administration officials have urged governors to endorse President Obama's health care proposals, or at least to avoid criticizing them. The Democratic plan, which is stalled in Congress, would vastly expand eligibility for Medicaid as one means of reducing the number of uninsured.
 But many governors said they were more concerned about the growth of existing health programs. The recession and high unemployment have driven up enrollment in Medicaid while depleting state revenues that help pay for it.
 A survey released Thursday by the Kaiser Family Foundation found a record one-year increase in Medicaid enrollment of 3.3 million from June 2008 to June 2009, a period when the unemployment rate rose by 4 percentage points. Total enrollment jumped 7.5 percent, to 46.9 million, and 13 states had double-digit increases. 
 Because Medicaid enrollment often lags behind unemployment, this year's increase could prove even greater. 
 The National Association of State Medicaid Directors estimates that state budget shortfalls in the coming fiscal year, which begins in July in most states, will total $140 billion. Because Medicaid is one of the largest expenditures in every state budget, and one of the fastest-growing, it makes an unavoidable target. 
 ''For most states, the fiscal situation is still dire, and the Medicaid cuts are significant,'' said Scott D. Pattison, executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers.
 Governors and legislators have managed to defer the deepest cuts because the federal stimulus package provided $87 billion to states in Medicaid relief. The cost of Medicaid is shared by the federal and state governments, with states setting eligibility, benefit and reimbursement levels within broad federal guidelines, and Washington covering the majority of the expense. 
 But the stimulus assistance is due to expire at the end of December, in the middle of many states' fiscal years, leaving budget officials to peer over a precipice. Congress and the White House are considering extending the enhanced payments for six more months, at a cost of about $25 billion.
 The House has passed such a measure and Mr. Obama included it in his budget this month, but the Senate has not acted. 
 The extension would not come close to filling the Medicaid gap in many states. In Georgia, for instance, Gov. Sonny Perdue assumed in his budget proposal that the additional federal money would be provided, but that the state would still face a Medicaid imbalance of $608 million, said Dr. Rhonda M. Medows, the commissioner of community health. 
 Mr. Perdue, a Republican, decided it would be unwise to cut optional benefits because that might drive Medicaid patients into expensive emergency rooms. He proposed instead to levy a 1.6 percent tax on hospital and managed care revenues and to cut payments to many providers by nearly 2 percent. 
 Without the tax increases, which face opposition in the General Assembly, the state will have to cut provider payments by 16.5 percent, Dr. Medows said.
 ''I won't have any primary care doctors left, much less specialists,'' she said. ''Certainly down here nobody likes to talk about taxes, but sometimes you have to bite the bullet and do what's right for a whole lot of people.''
 In the Kaiser survey, almost every state reported that Medicaid enrollment for the current fiscal year was exceeding expectations, making midyear budget cuts necessary.
 The options are limited by several realities. To qualify for Medicaid dollars provided in the stimulus package, states agreed not to tighten eligibility for low-income people. And any time a state cuts spending on Medicaid, it loses at least that much in federal matching money.
 Despite the ban on restricting eligibility, hard-hit states like California and Arizona are considering proposals by their governors that would remove hundreds of thousands from the rolls once the federal financing ends. Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a Republican, has called for eliminating Medicaid coverage for 310,000 childless adults and ending the Children's Health Insurance Program to help close a two-year budget gap of about $4.5 billion.
 Gov. Phil Bredesen of Tennessee, a Democrat, is proposing the largest cuts in the history of TennCare, his state's Medicaid program. To trim 9 percent of the TennCare budget, he would establish a $10,000 cap on inpatient hospital services for nonpregnant adults and would limit coverage of X-rays, laboratory services and doctor's office visits.
 ''I have no choice,'' Mr. Bredesen said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. C. Joseph Beck has stopped treating Medicaid patients. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG HACKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (76%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (76%); TOBACCO FARMING (75%); TAX LAW (75%); SALES TAX (75%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (70%); ADULT DAY CARE (69%); INCONTINENCE (68%); HEARING AIDS (54%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: JIM GIBBONS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WICHITA, KS, USA (69%) KANSAS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



509 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Fed Move May Signal End to Easy Bank Profits

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Federal Reserve to Wall Street: The days of easy money -- and, just maybe, easy profits -- are numbered.
 News on Thursday that the Fed would raise the interest rate that it charges banks for temporary loans was seen by lenders as a sign that their long, profitable period of ultralow rates was coming to an end. 
 The move suggested that policy makers believed the nation's banks had healed enough to withdraw some of the extraordinary support that Washington put in place during the financial crisis. And, while all those bailouts stabilized the banking industry, it was low rates from the Fed that helped propel banks' rapid recovery. 
 Even though the Fed had telegraphed its intention to raise the largely symbolic discount rate, the timing of the move, coming between scheduled policy meetings, caught some economists by surprise. Stocks and bonds sank in after-hours trading, suggesting Friday could be an anxious day for the markets. 
 ''This is a victory lap by the Fed,'' Zach Pandl, economist at Nomura Securities, said. ''It is a signal that the Fed is very confident in the health of the banking system. Fundamentally, these actions are a sign of policy success.''
 Since the crisis, the Fed has nursed banks back to health with extraordinarily low rates. Banks have been able to borrow money cheaply and put it to work in lucrative ways, whether using the money to make loans at higher rates or to trade in the markets. 
 The difference between short- and long-term interest rates is near a record high, presenting a profitable opportunity for banks. The difference between two- and 10-year Treasury rates, for instance, is about 2.9 percentage points. Buoyed by such policies, banks' profits -- and banking stocks -- have rocketed over the last year. 
 Many economists said banks were no longer borrowing in large amounts from the Fed using the discount rate, and so the move on Thursday was, in a sense, purely technical. 
 But it was a sign that the threat of a collapse in financial markets -- so real just a year and a half ago -- had dissipated. Some economists said that, with unemployment high and the economy growing slowly, the Fed would not be raising the more important benchmark interest rates for some time.
 ''This does not say anything about interest rates, but it does say something about what has happened on the ground, that the financial industry is not under same stress as it was previously,'' Frederic S. Mishkin, a professor at Columbia and a former member of the Fed's board of governors, said.
 Others countered that the move at least brought forward the moment when interest rates would begin to rise again -- and put an end to the banks' period of easy money.
 Louis V. Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP, said it demonstrated ''a willingness to entertain an early start to the real business of retreating from the Fed's very accommodating stance.''
 Unnerved by this prospect, at least in the short term, the bond market fell after the Fed's announcement, driving up the yield on 10-year Treasury notes about seven basis points, or seven-hundredths of a percentage point, to 3.8 percent.
 Stock futures also fell in after-hours trading. Financial shares were particularly hard hit, with shares of big banks like JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America each falling about 1 percent.
 The uncertainty over what the Fed will do next, and when, is a big worry for bankers. 
 ''It creates real havoc in managing a bank when you have to ride through these cycles when interest rates change rapidly,'' said Douglas J. Leech, the chairman and chief executive of Centra Bank, in Morgantown, W.Va. 
 Many banks are still coping with bad mortgages and other loans. ''This poses a new threat,'' Mr. Leech said. 
 Rising interest rates will invariably squeeze banks' profit margins and reduce the value of some lenders' own investments. Taken together, those developments will hurt banks' bottom lines, a particular worry for the many small and midsize banks that are struggling to cope with the weak economy. 
 Many banks have tried to prepare for an inevitable rise in rates by locking up customers' deposits, which provide a stable source of funding for loans. Centra, for instance, began extending the term of its certificates of deposits to 16 months, from 12 months, last year. The bank also began offering low-rate loans that it can reset at higher rates in 18 months, in case, as Mr. Leech expects, interest rates rise. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New York Stock Exchange on Thursday morning. Stocks and bonds fell in after-hours trading, raising concerns for Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B6) CHART: Since the market's recent low last year, bank stocks have risen more sharply than the Standard & Poor's Index of 500 American stocks. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); TREASURY SECURITIES (79%); BONDS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



510 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: California Death Spiral

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

DATELINE: Health insurance premiums are surging 

 BODY:
-- and conservatives fear that the spectacle will reinvigorate the push for reform. On the Fox Business Network, a host chided a vice president of WellPoint, which has told California customers to expect huge rate increases: ''You handed the politicians red meat at a time when health care is being discussed. You gave it to them!''
 Indeed. Sky-high rate increases make a powerful case for action. And they show, in particular, that we need comprehensive, guaranteed coverage -- which is exactly what Democrats are trying to accomplish. 
 Here's the story: About 800,000 people in California who buy insurance on the individual market -- as opposed to getting it through their employers -- are covered by Anthem Blue Cross, a WellPoint subsidiary. These are the people who were recently told to expect dramatic rate increases, in some cases as high as 39 percent. 
 Why the huge increase? It's not profiteering, says WellPoint, which claims instead (without using the term) that it's facing a classic insurance death spiral.
 Bear in mind that private health insurance only works if insurers can sell policies to both sick and healthy customers. If too many healthy people decide that they'd rather take their chances and remain uninsured, the risk pool deteriorates, forcing insurers to raise premiums. This, in turn, leads more healthy people to drop coverage, worsening the risk pool even further, and so on.
 Now, what WellPoint claims is that it has been forced to raise premiums because of ''challenging economic times'': cash-strapped Californians have been dropping their policies or shifting into less-comprehensive plans. Those retaining coverage tend to be people with high current medical expenses. And the result, says the company, is a drastically worsening risk pool: in effect, a death spiral. 
 So the rate increases, WellPoint insists, aren't its fault: ''Other individual market insurers are facing the same dynamics and are being forced to take similar actions.'' Indeed, a report released Thursday by the department of Health and Human Services shows that there have been steep actual or proposed increases in rates by a number of insurers.
 But here's the thing: suppose that we posit, provisionally, that the insurers aren't the main villains in this story. Even so, California's death spiral makes nonsense of all the main arguments against comprehensive health reform.
 For example, some claim that health costs would fall dramatically if only insurance companies were allowed to sell policies across state lines. But California is already a huge market, with much more insurance competition than in other states; unfortunately, insurers compete mainly by trying to excel in the art of denying coverage to those who need it most. And competition hasn't averted a death spiral. So why would creating a national market make things better?
 More broadly, conservatives would have you believe that health insurance suffers from too much government interference. In fact, the real point of the push to allow interstate sales is that it would set off a race to the bottom, effectively eliminating state regulation. But California's individual insurance market is already notable for its lack of regulation, certainly as compared with states like New York -- yet the market is collapsing anyway.
 Finally, there have been calls for minimalist health reform that would ban discrimination on the basis of pre-existing conditions and stop there. It's a popular idea, but as every health economist knows, it's also nonsense. For a ban on medical discrimination would lead to higher premiums for the healthy, and would, therefore, cause more and bigger death spirals.
 So California's woes show that conservative prescriptions for health reform just won't work. 
 What would work? By all means, let's ban discrimination on the basis of medical history -- but we also have to keep healthy people in the risk pool, which means requiring that people purchase insurance. This, in turn, requires substantial aid to lower-income Americans so that they can afford coverage. 
 And if you put all of that together, you end up with something very much like the health reform bills that have already passed both the House and the Senate. 
 What about claims that these bills would force Americans into the clutches of greedy insurance companies? Well, the main answer is stronger regulation; but it would also be a very good idea, politically as well as substantively, for the Senate to use reconciliation to put the public option back into its bill.
 But the main point is this: California's death spiral is a reminder that our health care system is unraveling, and that inaction isn't an option. Congress and the president need to make reform happen -- now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (69%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%); WELLPOINT INC (90%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (70%)

TICKER: WLP (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



511 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Google and Mountain View Recast Company-Town Model

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
It is no secret that Silicon Valley is one long string of company-dominated towns. Hewlett-Packard and Palo Alto. Intel and Santa Clara. Apple and Cupertino.
 But within this web, there is a more intense intersection where the template for a 21st-century company town is being laid down. The company is Google. The town is Mountain View.
In a sense, the end result is the same mix of plans, dreams and frustration, of civic-corporate boosterism and local concern about the giant in their midst that Henry Ford might have found familiar in Dearborn, Mich., a century ago. Indeed, a hint of friction crept into the Google-Mountain View union this month as the company moved to safeguard its option to expand along the city's northern edge near the shores of San Francisco Bay. 
 But if the debate over the company's physical footprint harks back to traditional company-town tensions, that should not obscure that this new version of the old model has a modern accent. 
 For Google, Mountain View is part home, part developable land and part beta test for the company. For the city, Google is part economic engine, part benefactor and a soon-to-be real-estate developer with an opportunistic eye for underused assets -- like, say the landing strip at Moffett Field, a former Navy air station, where jets of Google executives now come and go. 
 Perhaps uniquely, Google is also casting itself as a partner with NASA, now the proprietor of Moffett Field. This partnership is making Mountain View a stop along the virtual route to Mars and the real route to the Moon. 
 ''It's a cool anomaly because the company-town tradition had basically died in the U.S.,'' said Jerry Davis, a professor at the University of Michigan, who has written about the ties between companies and cities. ''It's interesting to see Google put their touches on the idea.''
 Historically, company towns have grown up around organizations with large manufacturing operations that can support thousands of local workers. To attract top executives to often less-than-ideal locales, the companies donated large sums to cultural institutions. 
 ''The main reason Ford put money into the Detroit Symphony Orchestra is to make it plausible to recruit executives to Detroit,'' Professor Davis said. ''It was a human-resources move as much as it was philanthropic.''
 But the technology companies that grew amid the striking scenery and balmy weather of the Bay Area have not felt the same imperative. As they grew, they turned inward, putting their resources into employee perks like stock options and free lunches.
 ''Generally speaking, the high-tech companies in Silicon Valley are not as engaged in contributing to their local communities,'' said Larry Stone, the Santa Clara County tax assessor. 
 But it has been somewhat different in Mountain View, largely because of Google's rapid growth. The company now employs 20,000 people worldwide, about half in the Bay Area, and the city's tax base has grown in tandem with the company. 
 In 2005, Google ranked 21st on a list compiled by county officials that measured the taxable value of local businesses' property.
 In 2009, Google rose to the third spot, trailing Cisco Systems, in San Jose, and Lockheed Martin in Sunnyvale. Over that period, the assessed value of its property has surged 481 percent to $739 million. 
 Last year, as the recession deepened, the assessed value of land in Mountain View grew 6.2 percent, the highest rate in the county. ''This is almost exclusively because of Google,'' Mr. Stone said. Countywide growth was two-tenths of 1 percent. 
 Ronit Bryant, the mayor of Mountain View, said of Google, ''They bring in a considerable amount of money that goes into the general fund.''
 Google also put Mountain View on the international map by building a citywide free wireless service. It recently announced a plan to create similar networks in other cities.
 But Mountain View and the NASA Ames Research Center at Moffett Field have also been good to Google. There is the airstrip. In addition, Google has leased excess space at local public schools, like Theuerkauf Elementary School, for its subsidized day-care centers. 
 The most controversial Google plan so far is its possible expansion into the North Bayshore area, including residential towers of up to five stories. These would increase population density, and possibly traffic, in an area that has little of either. The proposal's viability, in turn, rests in part on the long-term planning decisions now before the City Council.
 After some members of the Council expressed concern last week, Google pushed back. In a Feb. 11 letter to the city manager, Google's vice president for real estate wrote, ''We would encourage you to provide opportunities for the North Bayshore area to continue to be the center of sustainable development for Google's HQ campus.''
 Reaction from city residents in the comment section of the local newspaper, The Mountain View Voice, fell into two camps. A comment under the name ''a nony mouse'' said: ''Google is funding Mtn View police and firemen and schools and free internet. Don't bite the hand that feeds you.''
 But another commenter calling himself ''Thom, a resident of the Shoreline West neighborhood,'' wrote: ''This isn't Google View, this is Mountain View. I urge the members of the council to tell Google we are not going to bend to their threats.''
 The North Bayshore development is one of two Google is considering; the other, further along, is for a residential, office and retail mix on federal, NASA Ames, land nearby. Construction is set to begin by 2013. 
 The complex is a sign of Google's attitude to Mountain View.
 In an interview, David Radcliffe, the Google vice president for real estate, said, ''This is our headquarters, and we are committed here for the long term.'' 
 Sean Safford, a professor who studies organizations and markets at the University of Chicago, noted that Google was replicating traditional company-town practices by placing housing for its employees near its headquarters. 
 ''It will be so interesting to see how much of their human resources strategy is about creating a community feeling that goes beyond the offices,'' Mr. Safford said. ''Sometimes when you're competing for workers and prominence, there's a need to stick your chest out and say, 'We're the big dogs in town.' ''
 The NASA campus also highlights some of Google's unconventional pursuits. 
 Where old-line companies directed their investments toward the arts, Google has aimed its millions at space. Every year, it earmarks money to support collaborations with NASA. One result has been Google Mars, which provides people with access to photos and information about the planet. 
 In addition, Google has put up $30 million for a contest to land a robot on the Moon by 2014.
 ''These technology entrepreneurs grew up watching 'Star Trek' and 'Star Wars,' and they want to make this real,'' said S. Pete Worden, the director of NASA Ames. 
 NASA has bet that other like-minded companies will come to Ames. The central idea is synergy between technology companies and NASA researchers as both delve into areas like energy, biotechnology and aeronautics. 
 For Mr. Worden, the work done with Google, as well as projects with Microsoft and Cisco, represents a new chapter in the way that governments and companies work together, particularly if economic opportunities around space exploration emerge.
 ''Google was the pathfinder,'' Mr. Worden said. ''But there will be more companies on this land.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As Google expands in Mountain View, there has been tension with residents, as well creative uses for areas like Moffett Field, home to a NASA research center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (66%); HUMAN RESOURCES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (93%); CENTURY CO LTD (72%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (93%); 002420 (KSE) (72%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS333994 INDUSTRIAL PROCESS FURNACE & OVEN MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3567 INDUSTRIAL PROCESS FURNACES & OVENS (72%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MARS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



512 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: The Lesson of Anthem Blue Cross

 BODY:
Clients were understandably furious when Anthem Blue Cross, the largest for-profit health insurer in California, announced huge rate increases for people who buy their own insurance: an average increase of 25 percent, and a 35 percent to 39 percent rise for a quarter of the purchasers. The move also provided a textbook example of why the nation badly needs comprehensive health care reforms.
 The reform bills stalled in Congress would put a brake on such out-of-scale premium increases by broadening the pools of insured people to keep average premiums low by setting up competitive insurance exchanges and by starting to rein in the cost of medical care that is driving up premiums everywhere. 
 Private insurers in several other states also have sought and won double-digit increases for policies sold to individuals. In one striking case, a Blue Cross Blue Shield plan in Michigan sought a 56 percent average increase in premiums for individually bought policies but settled for 22 percent in a compromise with regulators. 
 If the increases go through in California, where regulators have limited powers to control rates, Anthem's enrollees would have to choose between paying the higher price, moving to lower-cost policies, perhaps with a high deductible, switching to another insurer if they can find one to take them, or dropping coverage entirely.
 The nation's largest health insurers reported substantial profits last year over all, but Anthem claims it lost money on the individual market in California. Its parent company, WellPoint Inc., attributed the need for the huge rate increase to a changing mix of customers as the recession forces many people to cut back on expenses. 
 The company says that healthier customers, gambling that they won't need much care, are disproportionately dropping Anthem coverage or choosing not to enroll. The less healthy are staying with Anthem, where their higher medical costs are driving up premiums.
 WellPoint will be asked to justify the increases at hearings in Congress and the State Legislature. California's insurance commissioner is investigating whether Anthem will be meeting regulations to spend at least 70 percent of its premium revenues on claims.
 It's hard to know which conclusion would be worse: that Anthem is trying to fleece its individual customers or that Anthem's rates are actuarially justified by its increasingly unhealthy enrollment pool. 
 The salient point is that the reform bills pending in Congress could almost certainly prevent this problem from developing. The bills would require everyone to buy health insurance (many with government subsidies). That would create large pools to spread the risk over both healthy and sick enrollees and keep average premiums low. On new insurance exchanges, people who buy their own insurance could benefit from group purchasing power and could choose from an array of policies. Competition among insurers on the exchanges is expected to help keep premiums down. 
 How about the Republicans' health care proposals?
 They would only address a small part of the Anthem problem. The Republicans reject the idea of mandates to spread the cost of care and instead call for ways for people dissatisfied with their insurer to buy cheaper coverage elsewhere. That could help relatively healthy people but would do nothing for the chronically ill or anyone with pre-existing conditions. They would be stuck in their health plans. State high-risk pools for sick people, another Republican solution, almost always have high premiums and would not provide a safe haven from rate increases in private plans. 
 Unless Congress passes comprehensive reform, we should expect many more Anthems in our future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%)

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (96%); WELLPOINT INC (82%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (56%)

TICKER: WLP (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (96%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (96%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



513 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Equality At Issue For MBIA

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
All insurance policyholders are equal. But some are more equal than others.
 Just how much more equal, and whether the less equal have been defrauded, is the issue in cases now pending in both state and federal courts in New York. The insurance company is MBIA, the once-dominant insurer of municipal bonds that went badly off course when it decided to insure things like mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations.
 If MBIA prevails, the chances are greatly improved that cities and counties across America will again have a choice if they want to use insurance as a way to sell their bonds. Those investors who now own bonds insured by MBIA will have a greater margin of safety.
 But those who bought the other insured securities, including credit-default swaps sold by MBIA, will be less secure than they would have been otherwise. Just how much less secure is the subject of the litigation. 
 Perhaps at stake is the reputation of the New York State Insurance Department, which has long been regarded as the most professional and effective insurance regulator in the country. The department, whose officials declined to be interviewed, says both parts of MBIA remain solvent. 
 When the department approved MBIA's reorganization last year, Eric R. Dinallo, the state superintendent of insurance at the time, said more was at stake than protecting existing policyholders. 
 ''It will aid the federal stimulus efforts by providing access to the credit markets to fund shovel-ready infrastructure development,'' he said of the reorganization, ''and it will help taxpayers by lowering the cost of that borrowing.''
 MBIA suffered setbacks this month in both state and federal court. The latest came this week, when a state judge in New York refused to dismiss a suit against MBIA filed by a large group of banks that own securities with MBIA guarantees and want to reverse the company's reorganization. That opinion came a week after a federal judge refused to dismiss a similar suit filed by two hedge funds.
 The rulings, unless reversed on appeal, mean that discovery will proceed in the suits, with trials likely later. It is far from easy to answer the simple question of whether MBIA is adequately capitalized, or even if it is solvent.
 If you believe current financial market values for the assets MBIA has insured are accurate, then the company will face severe problems in years to come. In an interview this week, the company's chief financial officer, C. Edward Chaplin, said the company was solvent and said market values were now depressed largely due to illiquidity.
 ''From a business or economic standpoint, that number is meaningless,'' he said.
 Before the reorganization, all of MBIA's policies were backed by the unified MBIA -- one whose cherished AAA rating had descended to junk. After the reorganization, the muni bond policies continued to be backed by the full company. But the other policies, including those insuring foreign securities, are now backed by a separate subsidiary that cannot call on a large part of the company's assets, which support only the munis.
 The bond rating agencies think that the backing of the munis now is good enough for an investment grade rating, assuming the other policies are really fenced off. But they think it is questionable whether all those other policies can be honored. Court victories might clear the way for MBIA to start selling insurance again. 
 Whatever the merits of the cases, MBIA's legal battles show just how concentrated and convoluted the financial industry has become. Some of the banks suing MBIA are also being sued by it, on claims that they defrauded MBIA by getting it to insure securities backed by mortgage loans that never should have been made.
 And MBIA is using some of the same banks to provide opinions that justify it showing smaller losses than it would have to do if it marked some assets all the way down to market value.
 The banks also find themselves taking positions that they might not embrace in other contexts. When discussing their own balance sheets, they are more than happy to agree that the prices of some securities are far lower than will ultimately be justified by their cash flows. But they cite those same market values to argue against MBIA.
 To prevail, the opponents of MBIA will have to persuade the courts that the reorganization was ''one of the world's largest fraudulent transfers,'' as Gandolfo V. DiBlasi, a partner in Sullivan & Cromwell representing the banks, said in one court filing.
 These cases are being treated as if state secrets were at stake, even if it is hard to understand why the solvency of a major insurance company, and the way it is regulated by the department, known as the N.Y.I.D., should be an area closed to public scrutiny. But some documents have been filed under seal, with only edited portions released to the public.
 ''The N.Y.I.D. now admits that it conducted no ---- ,'' Mr. DiBlasi states in one filing. The next line and a half are blacked out, so we don't know what it admitted. But the portions that are shown make it clear that the banks think the department conducted a rushed and inadequate review.
 The two hedge funds that filed the other suit, Aurelius Capital Management and Fir Tree Partners, at first tried to persuade the insurance department that it had been misled by MBIA. They pointed to rapid increases in loss estimates last year -- changes that Mr. Chaplin attributes to a worsening economy -- as evidence. ''It is simply not believable that MBIA discovered these massive additional loss payments only after the department approved the February 2009 transactions,'' they wrote in a letter to the department.
 But after the department strongly backed MBIA in the litigation, the funds wrote that ''a reasonable observer could easily conclude, as we have'' that department officials were helping MBIA ''cover up its wrongful conduct.''
 The other possibility, of course, is that the department really believes, as it says, that MBIA is solvent and able to pay its claims, even after the reorganization, and that it has done the right thing in trying to revive the muni bond insurance business. If it is right, it will have helped muni bond issuers and investors without really hurting anyone.
 But it is hard to escape the suspicion that the department thinks some policyholders -- the proverbial widows and orphans who invest in muni bonds -- are more deserving of protection than the others, the hedge funds and financial institutions that invested in all those strange concoctions MBIA foolishly insured.
 If these cases go to trial, we may get some insights into whether the department's desire to protect the most worthy investors caused it to fail in its duties to the other policyholders.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric Dinallo, then insurance superintendent, said splitting MBIA helped the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); JUDGES (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SOLVENTS (71%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); APPEALS (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: MBIA INC (92%)

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



514 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 3980 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: Art

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THOMAS CHAMBERS (1808-1869): AMERICAN MARINE AND LANDSCAPE PAINTER,' through March 7. With this extraordinary show, a star is born, or rediscovered, or at least given a big museum survey for the first time since 1942. Chambers painted typical 19th-century fare -- Hudson River landscapes and marine views of ships, harbors and naval battles -- in an entrancing, slightly demonic style that was neither strictly realist nor naive. His paintings are like chorus lines singing and dancing their hearts out, ever so slightly off key and out of step. They amplify the understanding of the visual appetite by satisfying it so thoroughly. Chambers may have been the first American artist to have grasped -- as Cezanne and Seurat would -- the implicitly geometric nature of reality. It makes sense that even in 1942 he was called ''America's first modern.'' 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)20100218 
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'APPROACHING ABSTRACTION,' through Sept. 5. Self-taught artists are noted for producing weird, wacky and otherwise eccentric objects. This exhibition of about 60 works from the museum's permanent collection proposes that the best of them are also adept abstractionists. Few works are nonrepresentational, and most have a vibe of strangeness, but almost every piece is as compelling for its form and technique as for its idiosyncratic imagery. 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20100218
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'DESIGN USA: CONTEMPORARY INNOVATION,' through April 4. Less an exhibition than an extra-large design seminar in your head, this dense display presents work by all 78 recipients of the annual National Design Awards, which were established in 2000. Encompassing several generations, it honors individuals and corporations and recognizes historic achievements and some of the latest things. One of these is a specially programmed iPod Touch that serves as an exhibition guide; it puts the show in the palm of your hand and is free. Don't even think about not using it. 2 East 91st Street, Manhattan , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Smith)20100218
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'TINO SEHGAL,' through March 10. If you've ever wanted to see the interior of the Guggenheim in its pristine state, now's the time. For the solo exhibition of the young European artist Tino Sehgal, the great spiraling rotunda, recently ablaze with Kandinskys, has been cleared out. Yet the space isn't empty. On the rotunda's ground floor, a man and a woman perform an ever-changing, slow-motion amorous embrace. On the ramps above, people walk and talk in pairs or clusters at a leisurely pace, with new participants periodically joining conversations as others drop away. You're invited to join the conversation, be part of the art, in this deeply refreshing, there-but-not-there show. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Holland Cotter)20100218
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'ANISH KAPOOR,' through March 28. This exhibition by the celebrated British sculptor consists of just one work, but it's a doozy. Viewable only from three partial perspectives, ''Memory'' is an enormous, egg-shaped volume of Cor-Ten steel, wedged into a boxy side gallery like a dirigible that drifted off course and got stuck. One approach offers only a square window allowing you to behold the impenetrable, seemingly infinite darkness inside. Call it a womb with a view. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Johnson)20100218
 JEWISH MUSEUM: 'ALIAS MAN RAY: THE ART OF REINVENTION,' through March 14. This show, a traditional retrospective with an irresistible biographical hook, gives roots to an artist who preferred to be seen as rootless. Born Emmanuel Radnitzky to Jewish emigres from Russia, Man Ray reinvented himself as one of the luminaries of the interwar avant-garde. Yet his garment-industry background had a material hold on him, visible in references to mannequins, coat hangers and patterns. More than 200 works, including paintings, photographs, films, assemblages and his signature rayographs, link Man Ray's frequent shifts among mediums to a more profound condition of restlessness. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20100218
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'MASTERPIECES OF FRENCH ART DECO,' ongoing. The largest exhibition of works from the Met's extensive holdings in French Art Deco fills a large gallery to overflowing with nearly 150 examples of art, furniture, wallpaper, decorative objects and the odd painting. Far more aristocratic than its American counterpart, French Deco devoted exquisite craftsmanship, opulent materials and historicizing design to the creation one-of-a-kind luxury items. The desks and cabinets of the incomparable Jacques-Emile Ruhlmann quietly dominate, along with vases by Jacques Dunand and silver by Jean Puiforcat. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20100218
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'PLAYING WITH PICTURES: THE ART OF VICTORIAN PHOTOCOLLAGE,' through May 9. This seemingly modest, startlingly reverberant exhibition reveals that upper-class Englishwomen of the 1860s and '70s devised an early form of collage, the supposedly Cubist breakthrough. Adding cutout photographs of family, friends, royals and celebrities to the watercolor albums that were already an acceptable female activity, they created all kind of witty effects -- drawing-room scenes, trompe l'oeil designs, human-animal hybrids. The effects of Darwinism and the publication of ''Alice's Adventures in Wonderland'' register in these amazing works, as does the collective, even osmotic nature of invention. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20100218
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE DRAWINGS OF BRONZINO,' through April 18. Agnolo Bronzino was the hand to hire for a power portrait in mid-16th-century Florence. He could turn toddlers into potentates and make money-mad Medicis look like decent people. At his peak, in the 1550s, he was the most influential artist in Florence. So why, given his fame, he has had to wait some 500 years for a museum solo is a puzzle. But that solo has now arrived at the Met. Encompassing all but 2 of the 61 works on paper currently attributed to the artist, and justifying each attribution in its gorgeous catalog, the show is scholarly tour de force and a breathtaking demonstration of a sovereign hand at work and at play. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20100218
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2010. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100218
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'YOUNG ARCHER,' ongoing. Is it or is it not? ''Young Archer,'' a life-size marble carving of a naked boy drawing an arrow from his lion's paw quiver might be the earliest known sculpture by Michelangelo. Scholars disagree. On a 10-year loan from France, the legless, armless boy with a yearning expression is in the Met's bright and airy Velez Blanco Patio, where viewers may decide for themselves if it is the real thing. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100218
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'DEMONS AND DEVOTION: THE HOURS OF CATHERINE OF CLEVES,' through May 2. The need for new bindings creates the rare, maybe one-time chance to see 93 of the 157 surviving miniatures from the extraordinary illuminated book of hours commissioned around 1440 by Catherine of Cleves (1417-1479) in the southern Netherlands. Among the masterpieces of a golden age by an anonymous artist known only as the Master of Catherine of Cleves, it features exquisite, jewel-like miniatures that locate the Holy Family, apostles, and saints in the here and now, among detailed interiors and landscapes and trompe l'oeil borders. The kingdom of God gives way to that of the real. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)20100218
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'ROME AFTER RAPHAEL,' through May 9. This exhibition of 16th-century Italian drawings from the Morgan's collection covers a lot of ground. It moves, in fits and starts, from the High Renaissance to Mannerism and the nascent Baroque. And it's enlivened by the classic match-up of Raphael versus Michelangelo; drawings by both artists, and their followers, pit Raphael's sprezzatura, or relaxed refinement, against Michelangelo's vein-popping muscularity. Look for drawings by Parmigianino (in Raphael's camp) and the sumptuous Farnese Hours by Giulio Clovio (in Michelangelo's), in addition to splendid Late Mannerist studies by Anibale Carracci. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)20100218
 EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'NEXUS NEW YORK: LATIN/AMERICAN ARTISTS IN THE MODERN METROPOLIS,' through Feb. 28. A bright light at the top of Museum Mile, the city's premier Latino art center has reopened after a makeover with a dense, episodic and absorbing visual history of the Latino art presence in New York in the first half of the 20th century. As much an archival display as a standard art show, it focuses on luminous, culture-changing personalities, from the Mexican-born art impresario Marius de Zayas, who teamed up with Alfred Stieglitz to bring the first Picasso show to New York; to Joaquin Torres-Garcia, a Uruguayan who arrived in New York in 1920 and saw proto-Pop Art everywhere; to the Chilean Roberto Matta, a dynamic agent for Old World Surrealism in the New World. In addition, El Museo now has its first permanent-collection gallery, with an installation, ''Voces y Visiones,'' that reaffirms historical connections to the nearby East Harlem neighborhood. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem , (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Cotter)20100218
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PERFORMANCE 7: MIRAGE BY JOAN JONAS,' through May 31. It helps to think of time as cyclical, or at least non-Western and nonlinear, when encountering Joan Jonas's ''Mirage'' at the Museum of Modern Art. The latest installation of a piece conceived in 1976, it suggests that Ms. Jonas's art has a longer-than-usual life span because it's constantly being reborn. In its current form at MoMA, ''Mirage'' consists of six moving-image works arranged in a loose circle and accompanied by a series of props: metal cones, chalkboards, a mask and a wooden hoop, among other objects. Performance, drawing, dance and video combine and recombine in arcane but thrilling ways. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)20100218
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'TIM BURTON,' through April 26. Given the tremendous visual appeal of Mr. Burton's movies, you would expect that this expansive retrospective of his nonmoving art would be equally exciting. Alas, it is a let-down. Focused mainly on hundreds of Victorian-Gothic-Expressionist cartoons dating from his teenage years to the present and including paintings, sculptures, photographs and a smattering of short films on flat screens, it is an entertaining show, but there is a sameness to all Mr. Burton's two- and three-dimensional output that makes for a monotonous viewing experience. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)20100218
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'GABRIEL OROZCO,' through March 1. Gabriel Orozco's delightful 1993 solo debut at the Museum of Modern Art was a barely-there affair of a few photographs, a ball of clay, a hammock and some fresh fruit. His one-man gallery show the next year was sparser still, with four plastic Dannon yogurt cups nailed to the walls of the gallery's otherwise empty space. Mr. Orozco has since gotten considerable mileage out of this early thinking-light phase. Tapped by museums in Chicago, Paris, Berlin, Amsterdam and Mexico City, where he was raised, he has become an object of admiring critical scrutiny, and a hero to many young artists. Why? The question lingers, only half-answered, after seeing this retrospective, a taut, attractive but oddly conventional-looking survey, heavy on painting and sculpture. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20100218
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MONET'S WATER LILIES,' through April 12. Devotees of late Monet can rejoice. The Museum of Modern Art has hung its three ''Water Lilies'' together for the first time since 2001, along with a relatively recent acquisition and two guests. That's six waterlily paintings, all completed in the last dozen years before the artist's death in 1926. In addition, these canvases are isolated from the onward march of Modernism according to MoMA, and their separateness emphasizes their meditative, immersive quality. But it also confirms their radical achievement. While bringing Monet's Impressionism to a grand conclusion, they also open the path to Abstract Expressionism. It can still stop you in your tracks. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20100218
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'NOGUCHI REINSTALLED,' through Oct. 24. In anticipation of the museum's 25th anniversary in 2010, this show presents about 200 of Isamu Noguchi's works from the 1920s to the 1980s. They include sculptures in stone, wood, metal and clay; maquettes and models for parks and playgrounds; and props for Martha Graham dance productions. Though unfailingly suave, Noguchi's polished abstraction no longer has the urgency it once had, but the museum as a whole is a wonderful time capsule, and the sculpture garden he designed is utterly blissful. Noguchi Museum, 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Johnson)20100218
 THE ONASSIS CULTURAL CENTER: 'THE ORIGINS OF EL GRECO: ICON PAINTING IN VENETIAN CRETE,' through Feb. 27. With its ensemble of some 40 religious images, including 6 by Domenikos Theotokopoulos, better known as El Greco, this glowing show is essentially a triple-layered visual essay. It roughs out the complex texture of a specific, cosmopolitan, East-meets-West island culture. It tells the story of a great artist who emerged from that culture, lived outside it and lastingly belonged to it. And it begins to suggest the variety and charisma of icons as a genre: spiritually instrumental objects that lie outside and beyond ordinary definitions of art. 645 Fifth Avenue, near 52nd Street , (212) 486-4448, onassisusa.org. (Cotter)20100218
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through March 1. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20100218
 QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: DANIEL BOZHKOV AND DUKE RILEY, through March 13. Two young and opportunistic artists -- Daniel Bozhkov and Duke Riley -- have found a way to make the most of the Queens Museum's transitional state. (The museum is in the process of expanding.) Egged on by trusting curators and a residency program, Launch Pad, that encourages exploration of the site and the Queens community, they have turned to the surrounding park and its former ice rink for materials and inspiration. Their adjacent solo installations are well worth seeing, if only because they are profoundly at odds with each other: Mr. Bozhkov salvages, while Mr. Riley torches the place in a ''naumachia'' (Roman naval battle). Flushing Meadows-Corona Park , (718) 592-9700, queensmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100218
 RUBIN MUSEUM OF ART: 'VISIONS OF THE COSMOS: FROM THE MILKY OCEAN TO AN EVOLVING UNIVERSE,' through May 10. This exhibition sets up a thought-provoking compare-contrast exercise between Western and Eastern ways of picturing the universe. On one side, myths about the cosmos are vividly imagined in Hindu, Buddhist and Jainist paintings and sculptures. On the other side, the West's progressively more empirically based beliefs are represented mainly by illustrations in antique books, with astronomical photographs made by high-tech machines like the Hubble Space Telescope representing current scientific knowledge. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea , (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Johnson)20100218
 SCULPTURE CENTER : 'LEOPARDS IN THE TEMPLE,' through March 30. Inspired by a Kafka short story, this exhibition says a lot about the state of contemporary art. It presents an international array of artists who riff on familiar conventions of modern art. Kitty Kraus's squared-off lengths of men's suit fabric lying flat on the floor evoke Carl Andre but with a feminist twist. Don't miss the funny, magical films by the team of Joao Maria Gusmao and Pedro Paiva in the basement. 44-19 Purves Street, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 361-1750, sculpture-center.org. (Johnson)20100218
 SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN: 'A SONG FOR THE HORSE NATION,' through July 7, 2011. Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing and beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navaho, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan , (212) 514-3700, americanindian.si.edu. (Johnson)20100218
 STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: '30 SECONDS OFF AN INCH,' through March 14. This exhibition of 60 disparate artworks by 42 contemporary artists from several generations might be called revisionist. It takes a refreshingly visual, even formal, approach to art that is usually plumbed for political and social meanings based largely on the artist's identity. Its curator, Naomi Beckwith, wants to emphasize the meanings -- social and otherwise -- embedded in the actual objects on view. Her success is mixed, partly because she doesn't spend much time explaining the experiential nature of her selections in the catalog, and also because she includes too many familiar, established artists. But she makes many excellent choices, introduces some promising young talent and displays a visual intelligence that is often rare in her chosen profession. 144 West 125th Street , (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Smith)20100218
 Galleries: Uptown
 'MASTERS DRAWINGS,' through next Friday. This exhibition concentrates on works produced in Italy, France and the Netherlands during the 17th and 18th centuries, but its outer boundaries reach further. From around 1500 there are rare images from Fra Bartolommeo and the circle of Rogier van der Weyden (Mary swooning into the arms of two attendants, an image that seems more carved than drawn). A William Blake pen-and-ink-with-watercolor depicts St. Augustine converting King Ethelbert with a characteristic fusion of comedy and gravity. The 19th- and 20th-century artists represented include Whistler, Klimt, Picasso, Maurice Prendergast and Reginald Marsh. David Tunick, 19 East 66th Street , (212) 570-0090, tunickart.com. (Smith)20100218
 'PAINTINGS OF FELIX VALLOTTON,' through April 10. The Swiss artist Felix Vallotton (1865-1925) was and still is much admired for his elegantly simplified, erotic woodcut prints. This show of paintings from 1905 to 1912, all depicting attractive young women in different states of dress and dishabille is a revelation. Inspired by Ingres, these works offer a weird, frankly lubricious classicism. It would be great to see more. Michael Werner, 4 East 77 Street , (212) 988-1623, michaelwerner.com. (Johnson)20100218
 Galleries: Chelsea
 CHRISTIAN HOLSTAD: 'THE WORLD'S GONE BEAUTIFUL,' through March 6. Christian Holstad was part of a wave of young, busy-handed, crafts-oriented artists who gained attention in the mid-2000s, when the art market was trying to leave identity politics and consumerist critique behind. As it turned out, his work was about both, but he was talking about them in a new way, from the vantage point of a child antsy with adult appetites; many of them are evident in this recession-conscious show of soft-sculpture shopping carts and sex-food-and-religion collages. Daniel Reich Gallery, 537A West 23rd Street , (212) 924-4949, danielreichgallery.com. (Cotter)20100218
 CHARLES STEFFEN: 'DRAWING NUDES IS LIKE SAYING A PRAYER, AMEN,' through Feb. 27. Rendered in serpentine lines, the naked women drawn late in life by this Chicago outsider artist have bug eyes and a stocky corpulence, like sexed-up troll dolls. Grotesque and cute, they call to mind the cartoons of Gahan Wilson and Basil Wolverton. Steffen (1927-1995) drew his other favorite subject, sunflowers, with a lovely, naturalistic touch. His women with sunflower heads are like deities for a nature religion. Edlin Gallery, 134 10th Avenue , (212) 206-9723, edlingallery.com. (Johnson)20100218
 Last Chance
 INKA ESSENHIGH: 'THE OLD NEW AGE'; closes on Saturday. Ms. Essenhigh's sweet, painted visions of enchanted forests, a ghostly coastal scene and a nature goddess with a flowing green cape passing among the trees are animated by a childlike infatuation with pagan myth and magic. Is she expressing sincere pantheistic faith or toying with New Age cliches? Both: the life of her work is in the tension between skepticism and belief. 303 Gallery, 547 West 21st Street, Chelsea , (212) 255-1121, 303gallery.com. (Johnson)20100218
 'MASTER DRAWINGS'; closes on Saturday. The local private dealer Margot Gordon and Crispian Riley-Smith, who has a gallery in London, place Italian and Dutch or German sheets, mostly from the 16th and 17th centuries, on facing walls. Heads and figures, whether in portraits, studies from the nude or religious scenes dominate the Italian side (along with a rare Mantegna), as does a certain freedom and even flourish of line. On the opposite side hang mostly landscapes, city views, skating scenes, the occasional animal or plant -- almost always rendered with a distinct reserve, if not meticulousness. The resulting encapsulation of sensibility elucidates. Shepherd & Derom Galleries, 58 East 79th Street , (212) 861-4050, shepherdgallery.com. (Smith)20100218
 MARKUS SCHINWALD; closes on Saturday. If you want to feel the wind on your eyeballs, drop by the New York debut of this young Austrian, who divides his time between Vienna and Los Angeles and fittingly pits the Victorian against the modern in his work. Dark, generic, suggestively altered 19th-century portraits and figure paintings dot the walls, while white-on-white beams traverse the space like the real-life, enlarged scaffolding of a Mondrian painting. Other works bring to mind Martin Kippenberger and Sarah Lucas. The initial effect is dazzling, verging on cynical, an ambitious machine too full of other artists' ghosts. Yvon Lambert, 550 West 21st Street, Chelsea , (212) 242-3611, yvon-lambert.com. (Smith)20100218

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'Young Archer' at the Met Museum: This life-size marble carving might be the earliest known sculpture by Michelangelo, but some scholars disagree. Go decide for yourself if it is the real thing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); DANCE (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



515 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Central Bank Stands Pat on Rates

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Japan's central bank held interest rates just above zero on Thursday and held off on new policy steps, resisting growing government pressure to escalate the fight against deflation. 
 The seven-member policy board voted unanimously to keep the overnight call rate target at 0.1 percent. The Bank of Japan has maintained the superlow interest rate since December 2008, when it was cut from 0.3 percent.
 It maintained its assessment of the economy, saying conditions were improving but that domestic consumption remained too weak.
 Figures released Monday showed that Japan's economy beat expectations to grow at an annual pace of 4.6 percent in the fourth quarter. The expansion helped the country fend off a surging China and keep its title as the world's No. 2 economy, after the United States, in terms of total output.
 Japan has benefited from government stimulus measures at home and around the world, which have bolstered global trade and factory production. But a lasting recovery is in doubt if finance officials cannot reverse a vicious cycle of falling prices and wages.
 Core consumer prices fell for a 10th month in December, declining 1.3 percent.
 Leading to the central bank's two-day meeting, government officials stepped up pressure on the bank's governor, Masaaki Shirakawa, to do more. The government's finance minister, Naoto Kan, called for an inflation target of 1 percent, which he said was the minimum level required for stable prices.
 Leaning on the central bank may be one of the few options left for the young government before upper house elections this summer.
 The government's ability to counter deflation with increased spending is constrained because of Japan's ballooning debt, the highest among industrialized countries and rising. Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama has proposed a record $1 trillion budget for the next fiscal year starting April, which will require the government to issue some 44.3 trillion yen ($492 billion) in bonds.
 The central bank, however, refrained from introducing new policy steps, instead reiterating its commitment to fighting deflation.
 ''The bank recognizes that it is a critical challenge for Japan's economy to overcome deflation and return to a sustainable growth path with price stability,'' it said in its statement. ''To this end, the bank will continue to consistently make contributions as a central bank.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: YUKIO HATOYAMA (59%); NAOTO KAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



516 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Profit Rises At Wal-Mart, But Outlook Is Clouded

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Wal-Mart, the giant retail discount chain, posted a record profit on Thursday for the fourth quarter, which included the all-important holiday shopping season. 
 But sales at Wal-Mart's stores in the United States fell in the period, and the retailer issued a lukewarm outlook for the current quarter, suggesting that consumers were still feeling pinched. Investors sent the retailer's shares down 1.09 percent, or 59 cents, on Thursday to close at $53.47
 ''The economy remains challenging for many of our customers around the world,'' Mike Duke, Wal-Mart's chief executive, said in a recorded call. 
 For the three months ended in January, Wal-Mart had a profit of $4.63 billion, or $1.23 a share, up from $3.79 billion, or 96 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales increased 4.6 percent, to $112.83 billion. Almost all of the increase was because of the international division. 
 Sales at stores in the United States open at least a year, a measure of retail health known as same-store sales, fell 1.6 percent. Wal-Mart, which has been one of the top performers in the retailing world as consumers traded down amid a recession, said the results were hurt by deflation in groceries and electronics. Executives did not say if that was because the chain cut prices to stay competitive, though analysts who study the electronics industry said that was precisely what happened. 
 Eduardo Castro-Wright, vice chairman of Wal-Mart Stores, said in a recorded call that customer traffic at American stores decreased slightly in the quarter. The average purchase at the check-out counter also declined. Wal-Mart has said it expects to hold onto all the customers it gained during the recession, though recent declines might signal otherwise. 
 ''The low-income customer is not really spending, and the high-end customer is maybe having some savings fatigue and is willing to trade up,'' said Bill Dreher, senior research analyst with Deutsche Bank Securities. ''It is possible that Wal-Mart's caught in this transition period where the high-end customer traded down less and their core low-income customer is not yet feeling the economic recovery.''
 He pointed out that in past downturns Wal-Mart had been able to hold onto many of the customers it gained, even after the economy improved.
 For the full year, customer traffic at United States stores ticked up 1.3 percent, though the average purchase was still down. 
 ''Customers remain cautious, especially in discretionary spending,'' Mr. Castro-Wright said, adding that sales of discretionary merchandise were softer compared with the period a year ago. ''Personal finances remain the top concern facing consumers in our latest monthly research report. Concern about unemployment remains much higher compared to last year, followed by concerns about the cost of living and the economy.''
 Customers bought fewer seasonal products and holiday decorations in the fourth quarter. Sales of clothing, a segment Wal-Mart has struggled with for years, remained weak. Mr. Castro-Wright noted that the chain was conducting a review of its clothing strategy. 
 Wal-Mart executives also pointed out that its American same-store sales results, while disappointing, were being compared with its impressive 2.4 percent sales increase a year ago. Same-store sales at Wal-Mart stores (down 2 percent) dragged down the chain's overall results. Same-store sales at Sam's Club, Wal-Mart's small-business warehouse segment, increased 0.7 percent. 
 To drive customer traffic, Wal-Mart said it was accelerating the introduction of its Project Impact stores -- big boxes reconfigured to be more intuitive and easier to shop, with fewer brands, better sight lines and clearer signs. 
 On the bright side, Wal-Mart said it gained market share in its most recent reporting period as it added high-end televisions and S.L.R. cameras to about 400 stores. All of its stores are expected to have high-end televisions by April. 
 The company also highlighted tight cost controls and said it was enjoying better margins that resulted from new global sourcing operations. 
 As has been the case for several months now, necessities were the best-performing categories at Wal-Mart stores: products related to eating and home entertainment, health and wellness (like vitamins), pharmacy goods and toys like bicycles and licensed products. Walmart.com also turned in robust results. 
 Sam's Club's strongest categories were also basics: meat, produce, consumables, baby products, health and wellness items, and pharmacy and over-the-counter goods. Unlike Wal-Mart stores, Sam's Club said its clothing sales were healthy. 
 More expensive discretionary categories, like furniture and jewelry, were weak, though. Wal-Mart said small-business members were pressured amid a tight credit market.
 As the nation continues to recover, Wal-Mart, America's largest retailer, said it was looking toward its international businesses for growth, particularly in Brazil and China. 
 ''U.S. sales will be more challenging in the first quarter,'' Mr. Duke said in a statement, adding that he expected ''improvement in the United States as the year progresses.''
 Wal-Mart added more than 34 million net square feet of selling space in 2009, with its international division contributing more than half of that growth.
 The company said it expected earnings for the current quarter to be 81 to 85 cents a share. For the period ending April 30, Wal-Mart estimated same-store sales at its namesake stores would be flat, compared with 3.6 percent higher last year. Same-store sales at Sam's Club are expected to be flat, compared with 4.2 percent higher last year. 
 While Wal-Mart delivered an ''impressive earnings increase,'' as Mr. Dreher put it, investors were disappointed with the sales decline in the United States. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Wal-Mart in Westbury, N.Y. Consumer necessities have been the best-performing categories at the company's stores. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); RECESSION (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (52%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL T DUKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



517 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Inquiry Is Said to Link Attack On Google to Chinese Schools

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF and DAVID BARBOZA; John Markoff reported from San Francisco and David Barboza from Shanghai. Bao Beibei and Chen Xiaoduan in Shanghai contributed research.

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- A series of online attacks on Google and dozens of other American corporations have been traced to computers at two educational institutions in China, including one with close ties to the Chinese military, say people involved in the investigation.
 They also said the attacks, aimed at stealing trade secrets and computer codes and capturing e-mail of Chinese human rights activists, may have begun as early as April, months earlier than previously believed. Google announced on Jan. 12 that it and other companies had been subjected to sophisticated attacks that probably came from China. 
 Computer security experts, including investigators from the National Security Agency, have been working since then to pinpoint the source of the attacks. Until recently, the trail had led only to servers in Taiwan.
 If supported by further investigation, the findings raise as many questions as they answer, including the possibility that some of the attacks came from China but not necessarily from the Chinese government, or even from Chinese sources. 
 Tracing the attacks further back, to an elite Chinese university and a vocational school, is a breakthrough in a difficult task. Evidence acquired by a United States military contractor that faced the same attacks as Google has even led investigators to suspect a link to a specific computer science class, taught by a Ukrainian professor at the vocational school. 
 The revelations were shared by the contractor at a meeting of computer security specialists. 
 The Chinese schools involved are Shanghai Jiaotong University and the Lanxiang Vocational School, according to several people with knowledge of the investigation who asked for anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the inquiry. 
 Jiaotong has one of China's top computer science programs. Just a few weeks ago its students won an international computer programming competition sponsored by I.B.M. -- the ''Battle of the Brains'' -- beating out Stanford and other top-flight universities.
 Lanxiang, in east China's Shandong Province, is a huge vocational school that was established with military support and trains some computer scientists for the military. The school's computer network is operated by a company with close ties to Baidu, the dominant search engine in China and a competitor of Google. 
 Within the computer security industry and the Obama administration, analysts differ over how to interpret the finding that the intrusions appear to come from schools instead of Chinese military installations or government agencies. Some analysts have privately circulated a document asserting that the vocational school is being used as camouflage for government operations. But other computer industry executives and former government officials said it was possible that the schools were cover for a ''false flag'' intelligence operation being run by a third country. Some have also speculated that the hacking could be a giant example of criminal industrial espionage, aimed at stealing intellectual property from American technology firms.
 Independent researchers who monitor Chinese information warfare caution that the Chinese have adopted a highly distributed approach to online espionage, making it almost impossible to prove where an attack originated. 
 ''We have to understand that they have a different model for computer network exploit operations,'' said James C. Mulvenon, a Chinese military specialist and a director at the Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis in Washington. Rather than tightly compartmentalizing online espionage within agencies as the United States does, he said, the Chinese government often involves volunteer ''patriotic hackers'' to support its policies. 
 Spokesmen for the Chinese schools said they had not heard that American investigators had traced the Google attacks to their campuses. 
 If it is true, ''We'll alert related departments and start our own investigation,'' said Liu Yuxiang, head of the propaganda department of the party committee at Jiaotong University in Shanghai. 
 But when asked about the possibility, a leading professor in Jiaotong's School of Information Security Engineering said in a telephone interview: ''I'm not surprised. Actually students hacking into foreign Web sites is quite normal.'' The professor, who teaches Web security, asked not to be named for fear of reprisal.
 ''I believe there's two kinds of situations,'' the professor continued. ''One is it's a completely individual act of wrongdoing, done by one or two geek students in the school who are just keen on experimenting with their hacking skills learned from the school, since the sources in the school and network are so limited. Or it could be that one of the university's I.P. addresses was hijacked by others, which frequently happens.''
 At Lanxiang Vocational, officials said they had not heard about any possible link to the school and declined to say if a Ukrainian professor taught computer science there.
 A man named Mr. Shao, who said he was dean of the computer science department at Lanxiang but refused to give his first name, said, ''I think it's impossible for our students to hack Google or other U.S. companies because they are just high school graduates and not at an advanced level. Also, because our school adopts close management, outsiders cannot easily come into our school.'' 
 Mr. Shao acknowledged that every year four or five students from his computer science department were recruited into the military.
 Google's decision to step forward and challenge China over the intrusions has created a highly sensitive issue for the United States government. Shortly after the company went public with its accusations, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton challenged the Chinese in a speech on Internet censors, suggesting that the country's efforts to control open access to the Internet were in effect an information-age Berlin Wall.
 A report on Chinese online warfare prepared for the U.S.-China Economic Security Review Commission in October 2009 by Northrop Grumman identified six regions in China with military efforts to engage in such attacks. Jinan, site of the vocational school, was one of the regions.
 Executives at Google have said little about the intrusions and would not comment for this article. But the company has contacted computer security specialists to confirm what has been reported by other targeted companies: access to the companies' servers was gained by exploiting a previously unknown flaw in Microsoft's Internet Explorer Web browser.
 Forensic analysis is yielding new details of how the intruders took advantage of the flaw to gain access to internal corporate servers. They did this by using a clever technique -- called man-in-the-mailbox -- to exploit the natural trust shared by people who work together in organizations. 
 After taking over one computer, intruders insert into an e-mail conversation a message containing a digital attachment carrying malware that is highly likely to be opened by the second victim. The attached malware makes it possible for the intruders to take over the target computer. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James C. Mulvenon said the Chinese government often usedvolunteer ''patriotic hackers'' to support its policies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (89%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (89%); NETWORK SERVERS (79%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); INFORMATION WARFARE (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (56%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010



518 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths RAMAGE, THE REVEREND DR

 BODY:
RAMAGE--The Reverend Dr. David Ramage, Jr. died on February 14, 2010 at Arden Courts in Fairfax, Virginia. Dave was born March 7, 1930 to Margaret White Ramage and David Ramage, Jr. in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
He graduated from Norwood High School in 1948 and Hanover College in 1951. Dave earned a divinity degree from McCormick Theological Seminary in 1955. He was awarded honorary Doctor of Divinity degrees from both Hanover College and Johnson C. Smith University. Dave was ordained by the Presbytery of Chicago in 1957. He then served in Chicago as director of a youth gang action/research project, as a social worker in settlement houses and as pastor of the Emerald Avenue Presbyterian Church. During this time he teamed up with community organizer Saul Alinsky and served on the Board of Alinsky's Industrial Areas Foundation. In 1963 Dave became an executive officer of the Board of National Missions of Churches in New York. He was Executive Director of its Department of Mission Strategy and Evangelism and Chairman of the Division of Church Strategy and Development. During this time, he also served as an adjunct staff member for the World Council of Church's Division of World Mission and Evangelism and the Committee to Combat Racism and the organization staff of the Joint Committee on Society, Development, and Peace of the Council and the Pontifical Commission for Justice and Peace of the Vatican. In 1970 he joined the staff of the Center for Community Change in Washington, DC as vice president for Field Services and in 1971 became its president. The Center is a national community development assistance and social policy research agency. From 1975 to 1985, Dave held executive positions at the New World Foundation in New York City as vice president, executive director, and president. The Foundation gives priority to encouraging effective education and promoting citizen responsibility and involvement in public issues such as peacemaking, community organization and development, and racial and ethnic opportunity. In 1985 Dave became the eighth president of McCormick Theological Seminary. In the summer of 1993 Dave chaired the Meeting of the Council of a Parliament of World's Religions in Chicago. In 1994 Dave retired from his post as president at McCormick Theological Seminary and became a MacArthur Foundation Fellow. Dave and his wife Betty retired to Marco Island, Florida and Reston, Virginia. In 2001 Dave received the Alumni Achievement Award from Hanover College. Dave is survived by his wife, Betty, their four children and their spouses, David and Corinne, Jonathan and Debbie, Elizabeth and Adam, and Daniel and Lynne, ten grandchildren, one great grandchild, his sister, June, his brother, Dan, and a host of nieces and nephews, cousins, relatives and loving friends. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); RACE & RACISM (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); HOLY SEE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



519 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Bleak Economy Pushing Health Insurers to Raise Rates, Analysts Say

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
Health insurers lately seem more afraid of Wall Street than of Washington.
 The nation's insurers have come under sharp attack by the Obama administration for seeking seemingly staggering rate increases on policies they sell to individuals. 
 The health and human services secretary, Kathleen Sebelius, recently pounced on WellPoint's Anthem Blue Cross unit for wanting to raise premiums as much as 39 percent in California, and on Thursday she issued a scathing report detailing double-digit increases sought by other insurers last year and so far this year. 
 Angela F. Braly, WellPoint's chief executive, was forced to cancel an investor presentation to prepare for the grilling she is likely to receive before Congress next week about the insurer's rate increases. 
 But as bad as it may play politically, for insurers like WellPoint, the challenging business environment may leave them little choice but to raise prices if they want to protect profits, analysts and some health economists say. 
 The weak economy and the unrelenting rise in the cost of medical care make it increasingly difficult for companies to avoid substantial rate increases -- even if those increases provide fresh fodder for Democrats seeking to pass the now-stalled health care legislation in Congress. 
 ''If they are losing money, they need to raise prices,'' said Charles Boorady, an industry analyst with Citigroup.
 Even so, he faults WellPoint for seeking the increases in the current political climate. He likens it to someone waving a five iron on a golf course during a lightning storm. ''You're asking to be electrocuted.''
 Under that political pressure, the company has said it will delay the California rate increases until at least May 1. 
 But from a business perspective, WellPoint, one of the nation's largest insurers and the operator of commercial Blue Cross plans in more than a dozen states, may have few alternatives as a company accountable to shareholders demanding higher earnings. The money WellPoint makes from selling policies to individuals and small businesses is an important source of its overall earnings. But the company says it lost millions of dollars last year in California on individual policies. 
 ''They're not prepared to lose money on this line of business,'' said Cathy Schoen, senior vice president for research at the Commonwealth Fund, a nonprofit research group in New York. In fact, she said, many carriers choose not to sell policies in the individual market.
 Many health policy analysts point to the sharp price increase sought by Anthem as evidence that the way individual insurance is sold in this country needs to be changed. 
 ''What they did is actuarially sound and totally legitimate,'' said Andrew Kurz, a former insurance executive with Wisconsin Blue Cross and Blue Shield who is a vocal critic of the current health care system. ''It's the marketplace that is wrong, not Anthem.''
 Insurers say they disagree with the Obama administration on whether the current legislation adequately addresses what is wrong with the health care system. In the individual market especially, the companies say, healthier people tend to opt out, leaving sicker people with higher medical costs for the insurers to cover. That is a big reason the insurance industry continues to push for mandatory coverage for everyone.
 ''Increases in the cost of coverage in the individual market shine a spotlight on the urgent need to reduce the growth of underlying medical costs and to bring everyone into the system,'' said Karen Ignagni, the chief executive of America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, in a statement. ''If reform doesn't address these pieces, it will not solve the serious problems that individuals, families and employers face.'' 
 While WellPoint officials have been outspoken opponents of the current health care legislation in Washington, they say California illustrates the need to change the system. Although California is an important market for WellPoint, the state's largest insurer, California's economic woes have proved increasingly challenging. As companies have laid off workers, the number of people Anthem covers under employer plans has declined sharply. Those seeking individual coverage have tended to be people who know they are likely to have high medical costs. 
 Although the company would not disclose exactly how much it had in operating losses in its individual-policy market in California, it said its medical claims last year were 6 percent higher than it had forecast, so the company did not charge enough in premiums last year. 
 ''We missed the pricing,'' Brad M. Fluegel, a senior executive for WellPoint, said in an interview after a conference call the company held Thursday to provide its view on the California controversy. 
 This year does not look much better, according to WellPoint. The company says it expects its medical claims for the individual market in California to increase about 10 percent in 2010, and it says it needs to raise its rates. WellPoint says the high rates also reflect the continuing escalation of medical costs as hospitals charge more and drug costs go up.
 While some members may see a 39 percent increase, the company says the average for those plans should run around 25 percent, which it says will probably prompt many people to switch to plans with fewer benefits but significantly lower premiums. 
 It is not only profit-making companies like WellPoint that are losing money in the individual market. 
 Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, for example, is a nonprofit insurer that was cited in Secretary Sebelius's report on Thursday for having tried to get a 56 percent rate increase last year on the coverage it sells to individuals. After lengthy negotiations with state regulators, the insurer was granted a 22 percent increase. It says it still lost $280 million on the business. 
 Unlike other insurers in the state, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan is required to cover everyone who applies, regardless of any existing medical condition. The plan has doubled its enrollment in the individual-policy market in the last two years as the state's economy has continued to weaken.
 The Obama administration is quick to counter that the insurers generally seem to make plenty of money, especially the commercial companies that still manage to reward their executives handsomely and keep their shareholders happy with increasing earnings. They say the insurers are asking for increases that far outpace the overall rise in underlying medical expenses. 
 The insurers ''want to continue to raise your premiums by outrageous margins -- often 5 to 10 times greater than health costs are rising,'' Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director, wrote Thursday on the White House blog. ''And all the while, they've been pulling down massive profits.''
 There is no question that the insurers often turn to the individual and small group markets to raise rates because that is where they have the clout -- in contrast to the resistance they often encounter when trying to raise the fees they charge large employers. And individuals, in particular, often have few alternatives if they have a pre-existing medical condition, because no other carrier will sell them a policy. 
 Meanwhile, insurers' pricing power is dwindling in their core business of providing coverage to large companies. Rather than selling insurance to big employers, they tend to be paid only to handle claims, and that business has become increasingly competitive as the companies fight over market share. 
 That is why insurers have little choice but to raise rates on policies to individuals and small groups as medical costs rise, said Michael Turpin, a former UnitedHealth insurance executive who is now an official at USI Holdings, an insurance broker. 
 ''As competition increases in larger accounts and margins thin, there are fewer and fewer levers for insurers to pull,'' he said. ''They're getting squeezed.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Angela Braly, chief executive of WellPoint, will discuss proposed rate increases in California before Congress next week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM RUE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); HEALTH CARE LAW (67%); GOLF (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (61%)

COMPANY: WELLPOINT INC (91%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (84%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (81%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: WLP (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (72%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); ANGELA BRALY (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



520 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: For the Tea Party Movement, Sturdy Roots in the Chicago Area

BYLINE: By DANIEL LIBIT

 BODY:
Sitting in a Starbucks last week, a few blocks from his Lakeview home, Eric Odom mused about the irony of the ever-intensifying Tea Party movement. 
 He has found Chicago -- bastion of the Democratic Party and home of Barack Obama -- to be a strong base of operations for his American Liberty Alliance, one of several groups trying to marshall the forces of grass-root discontent of bank bailouts, deficit spending and big government in anticipation of this fall's midterm elections.
''It all started in Chicago,'' said Mr. Odom, 30, the executive director of the alliance. 
 ''Being in Chicago has given me an understanding of what is now in Washington,'' he said, referring to the Obama administration. ''There is a perspective for me of what's to come.'' 
 Though Mr. Odom may appear to be an out-of-place elephant among a herd of Democratic donkeys, he is not the only one. 
 The same area where Mr. Obama's political career first bloomed is now home to some of the most influential drivers of the movement on the libertarian and conservative right. While largely unknown or ignored in City Hall or Springfield, they have demonstrated an outsize impact on the national stage. These leaders include Ed Lasky, a Northbrook lawyer, and Richard Baehr, a Chicago health care consultant, who helped create American Thinker, a Web site often cited by Rush Limbaugh and Glenn Beck. 
 Mr. Odom, a native of northern Nevada, professed love for his adopted hometown in an interview but acknowledged that he routinely invoked Chicago and its reputation for Democratic machine politics as a useful punch line when he spoke to groups on the road. 
 ''Look, I live and breathe in a city where you actually feel the taxation and the regulation,'' he said. ''So for me it gives me a really great perspective and storyline.'' 
 It was a Chicago storyline, in fact, that first moved him to national prominence. Last March, after Rick Santelli of CNBC delivered his now-famous on-air call for a ''Chicago Tea Party,'' Mr. Odom started a Web site that he expected to culminate in a single protest in downtown Chicago. But the movement went viral over the Internet and quickly led to protests in 40 cities. From there, Mr. Odom helped coordinate the Tax Day Tea Parties in April, which took place in more than 300 cities. 
 Mr. Odom, who describes himself as ''very libertarian,'' moved to Chicago three years ago to work for the Sam Adams Alliance, a national group advocating free-market policies. 
 ''You come from Nevada, where you have the entire Legislature on your cellphone,'' Mr. Odom said. ''It is a small government compared to here, where it is all union-run and it is a huge bureaucracy, and there is no way you're going to get meetings with anybody.'' 
 Feeling somewhat constrained, Mr. Odom spent just one year at the Sam Adams Alliance before setting out on his own. ''I was probably a little too controversial, because I was constantly throwing stuff at the fan,'' he said.
 Eric O'Keefe, chief executive of the alliance, said of Mr. Odom: ''You might say he was faster than we were. He got this entrepreneurial energy, and I think he really wanted total freedom.''
 In August 2008, Mr. Odom helped coordinate the DontGo Movement, using Twitter to begin a campaign to encourage Republicans in the House in their fight over a proposed ban on offshore drilling. Within days, the effort had drawn the attention of federal lawmakers and the national news media. He used online search-engine optimization tools, which he had learned while working for a national bank, to produce a Web site that soon harvested an e-mail list of 40,000 names. 
 Since starting the American Liberty Alliance, which operates as a political action committee, Mr. Odom has become critical of the emerging bureaucracies within the Tea Party movement. He has also butted heads with some local Tea Party organizations in Chicago, and said he had disassociated himself from the groups to avoid being bogged down in what he considered provincial turf wars.
 Catherina Wojtowicz, leader of the Chicago Tea Party Patriots, is no ally. She said he focuses on his own agenda and behaves in a territorial way.. 
 ''We started our own little tea party,'' Ms. Wojtowicz said. 
 Now, with the growth of the Tea Party movement, Mr. Odom's work is part of a bigger phenomenon, and he is scrambling to stay in the vanguard. Joining with Tea Party leaders in other states, he has helped form the Patriot Caucus, a get-out-the-vote operation that will hold six conferences in April designed to direct the energy of Tea Party supporters toward the 2010 midterm elections. 
 The Patriot Caucus leaders hope to draw on the success they had last month in organizing a grass-roots, conservative effort that carefully flew below the radar of the Democratic Party and helped a Republican, Scott Brown, win a special election in Massachusetts to fill the United States Senate seat left vacant by the death of Edward M. Kennedy. 
 While Mr. Odom has helped build a new political movement, Mr. Lasky has focused his efforts on attacking what he perceives as Mr. Obama's personal political vulnerabilities. 
 American Thinker, Mr. Lasky's Web site, sharply criticized Mr. Obama for months leading up to the 2008 presidential election. One of its favorite topics was Mr. Obama's association with the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., his controversial former pastor in Chicago, and what Mr. Wright's critical comments about Israel might say about Mr. Obama's commitment to American-Israeli relations. 
 Ira Foreman, executive director of the National Jewish Democratic Council, said Mr. Lasky's Web site indulged in smear tactics, but resonated with his followers.
 ''He writes halfway decently, so some gullible people believe him,'' Mr. Foreman said of Mr. Lasky. ''But it is really the thinnest of arguments, and it really is nasty stuff.'' 
 Mr. Lasky, who serves as American Thinker's news editor, said he was simply putting the research skills he learned at Northwestern University to good use, and doing what he felt the mainstream news media would not do: give the president and his positions a proper and honest vetting. 
 Mr. Lasky started The American Thinker in 2003 with Mr. Baehr and Thomas Lifson, a Berkeley, Calif., sociologist and business adviser. The site has become a major force in national conservative circles, attracting 1.2 million unique visitors a month, Mr. Lasky said. 
 Erick Erickson of Red State, another conservative Web site, said, ''Their ideas routinely help shape and advance the agenda on the right, and they have an added level of credibility because they do not live or work in Washington, D.C.''
 The focus on national issues is a matter of necessity, Mr. Lasky said, because there is little demand for conservative political activism in Northern Illinois.
 ''Illinois is sort of a hopeless case in terms of changing it from one-party rule,'' he said. 
 The American Thinker's forceful critiques, particularly about Mr. Obama, have caused strains among Mr. Lasky's North Shore social circle, he said, adding that feelings were especially raw at the height of Mr. Obama's presidential campaign. 
 ''There were times I would go places, to bipartisan political gatherings, or to speakers, and people I would know would come up to me and say, 'You are the guy causing all the problems,' '' Mr. Lasky said. ''And that was very uncomfortable.'' 
 Conservative activists in Chicago learn to grow comfortable operating as outsiders in their own home town, perhaps none more so than the Heartland Institute, which has pushed a libertarian economic agenda from its Chicago headquarters for decades and is now turning the debate over climate change into its latest cause.
 The institute has sent protestors and well-spoken skeptics to meetings of the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and four years ago it began co-sponsoring an annual New York conference focused exclusively on publicizing academic, scientific, and political skepticism about human contribution to a global increase in temperatures. 
 The focus on climate change has helped the 25-year-old institute broaden its reach. 
 ''We needed to get away from the day-to-day debate of public policy in Illinois,'' said Joseph Bast, president of the institute. ''If I wanted to continue to do just Illinois, I would have to move to Springfield, which is a horrifying prospect. We would have to cap out our budget at a quarter-million bucks, have a full time staff of three to five. And I said that is not my future.'' 
 The Heartland Institute now spends nearly $3 million of its annual $7 million budget working on challenging the science of manmade global warming. And this time, it is taking the battle to its own home town. 
 When Heartland hosts its fourth annual climate-change conference in May, New York will not be the site. This time, it will be in Chicago. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From a small Lakewood home office, Eric Odom runs the American Liberty Alliance, a backer of the Tea Party movement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); BAILOUTS (71%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); BANK FAILURES (56%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); GLENN BECK (57%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



521 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2628 words

HEADLINE: As Campaign Nears, Paterson Is Seen as Remote

 BODY:
This article was reported by Danny Hakim, Serge F. Kovaleski and Nicholas Confessore and written by Mr. Hakim. 
 When a plane crashed outside Buffalo about 10:20 on a Thursday evening last year, killing 50 people, aides to Gov. David A. Paterson of New York could not find him for more than three hours, and it was nearly five hours before his office released any statement about what was the deadliest air disaster in the nation since 2001. Mr. Paterson later had difficulty explaining the delay and suggested that when trying to reach him an aide had been calling the wrong telephone.
 Last summer, as some advisers warned him that he needed to travel around the state to shore up his poll numbers, Mr. Paterson spent long stretches in the Hamptons, relaxing with friends and mingling with wealthy donors and celebrities. 
 And last month, with the state facing a deadline to apply for $700 million in federal education aid, the governor waited until the last minute to try to bring lawmakers together to agree on a plan. His efforts failed, leaving the application in doubt. 
 Mr. Paterson, as he has said, never asked to be governor. But from the time he succeeded Eliot Spitzer nearly two years ago, he has said he is dedicated to the job and intent on winning it in his own right this fall.
 On the eve of his election kickoff, however, interviews with dozens of current and former aides, legislators and friends reveal significant criticism about Mr. Paterson's management of the state and of his election effort. 
 Those interviewed describe the governor as remote from the most seasoned people around him, and increasingly reliant on people whom he feels comfortable with but who lack deep experience in government, including his former driver, David W. Johnson, and his former Albany roommate, Clemmie J. Harris Jr., who retired from the State Police on disability a decade ago and has been appointed special adviser to the governor. 
 Some lawmakers say that despite the state's crippling crisis, Mr. Paterson has seldom engaged with them, beyond denouncing them. And several former state commissioners say he has virtually no involvement with those he has running major agencies, only rarely participating in policy meetings. 
 In extended interviews with The New York Times last week, the governor emphasized that he believed that he was the best person to lead the state, saying he was working hard and making tough decisions in a brutal economic and political climate. 
 ''I want this job because right now I feel I'm the one who is standing up to the special interests, standing up to the Legislature and standing up for the people of New York,'' he said. ''I really believe that I'm the person who's doing that.''
 But he also sought to portray himself as the victim of racist caricature -- portraits driven, he suggested, by his rivals.
 ''This latest kind of bashing of me is a depiction of me in what is, in my opinion, a racialized, hypersexualized and more or less dissolute context,'' he said, adding, ''I resent this sort of, in my opinion, and I'll be frank with you, kind of profiled way that it appears that all I'm doing is drinking, chasing women, doing drugs.''
 Different Way of Governing
 Mr. Paterson's approach to his job differs markedly from that of his predecessor. Mr. Spitzer, when he became governor, promised major change, installed appointees with substantial credentials and took a deep interest in their work, peppering them with e-mailed policy questions in the early-morning hours. Mr. Paterson is less involved with those who run the agencies, and less curious about how they are operating and whether their policies are succeeding, current and former aides say. 
 Shortly after Mr. Paterson took office in March 2008, Dan Gundersen, who was commissioner of economic development and chairman of the Upstate Empire State Development Corporation, requested a meeting with the new governor. He could not get on Mr. Paterson's schedule, he said, and kept asking: 12 requests over a period of about 100 days. No meeting was ever scheduled, and Mr. Gundersen resigned that June. 
 ''Governor Spitzer was completely engaged and responsive with me,'' Mr. Gundersen recalled. ''And when Governor Paterson assumed office, it was important for me to brief him on the upstate agenda and the projects we were working on.'' 
 A review of several months of Mr. Paterson's private schedules shows that his days were not long; he often arrived at his office in Manhattan or Albany after 10 a.m. and departed by 4:30 or 5 p.m.
 Sometimes, he has failed to show up at long-scheduled events. 
 Last May, Mr. Paterson was lined up to speak in Manhattan at the evening graduation ceremony for Teachers College, Columbia University. It was kind of a makeup: he had agreed in 2008 to be the speaker at the same ceremony but canceled at the last minute because he needed emergency eye surgery. 
 University officials were surprised last year when Mr. Paterson canceled again, with just two hours' notice. 
 ''The second time, it was going to be kind of like closure,'' said Joe Levine, a spokesman for the college. ''I don't really know why he didn't come.'' 
 He had to cancel, the governor said, because of an emergency terrorism briefing. The Times requested the names of others who attended the briefing, or other evidence that the briefing had occurred, but Mr. Paterson's office declined to provide any. 
 Mr. Paterson said that the next day, he called the president of Columbia, Lee C. Bollinger, to explain what had happened, though Mr. Bollinger, through a spokesman, said he could not recall such a phone call. 
 Two people with knowledge of the matter said that the governor had not wanted to travel to Manhattan for the ceremony, wishing instead to stay in Albany that evening and gather with friends there to celebrate, since it was the night before his 55th birthday.
 Friends of the governor praise his approach to the job and say it is silly to assess his performance based on how many hours he spends in the office. Getting out and interacting with people, they say, keeps Mr. Paterson in touch with ordinary New Yorkers. 
 ''Who cares if he likes to go out and has a couple of drinks; what's the big deal?'' said one friend, the private investigator Richard Dietl, who enjoys a meal with the governor about once a month. ''He likes to go out. He likes to see people.''
 Mr. Dietl, who is known as Bo, added, ''When he goes out, he gets to keep his pulse on the people.'' 
 The governor bristles at suggestions that he is not focused on his work. About his time in the Hamptons last summer, for example, he said he stayed there because he had fallen behind in his fund-raising and thought it would be wise to meet with wealthy donors, many of whom had gone there at that time of year.
 ''Where are the people who are giving me the money?'' he said. ''They're in the Hamptons.'' 
 Asked about his schedule, the governor said he spent hours each morning memorizing his talking points and speeches and preparing for his public events. 
 ''I have been serious as a minority leader,'' he said. ''As lieutenant governor, I had the busiest schedule any lieutenant governor ever had. And as governor, I've worked very hard.''
 As The Times prepared this article, Mr. Paterson and his staff encouraged reporters to interview a number of the governor's supporters to speak about his record. One declined to comment. Two others did not return phone calls requesting an interview. One supporter who did agree to speak for the record was Robert G. Wilmers, a Buffalo banking executive and former appointee of Mr. Paterson as chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation.
 In an interview, Mr. Wilmers praised the governor's tough language on the budget. But when asked whether Mr. Paterson was an effective governor, Mr. Wilmers paused before answering. 
 ''I think he's a gentleman who wants to do the right thing,'' Mr. Wilmers finally answered. ''Beyond that, I don't keep score.''
 Challenges of Election Season
 Even as the governor readies for a difficult election season, when he will need to rally his backers and broaden his support, he is relying on a shrinking inner circle of advisers and a depleted campaign treasury. 
 Last month, Mr. Paterson reported that he had only $3 million on hand, and his campaign continues to spend more cash than it brings in. His campaign records shows big restaurant bills, most under the general heading of campaign meeting or fund-raising.
 There is a $304 tab at Le Cirque in Manhattan. There were two large expenditures at the Water Club -- $670 and $299. And the campaign spent more than $1,000 at the Mojo restaurant in Harlem, for the governor's birthday.
 Of course, candidates are permitted to spend campaign money to hold fund-raising events and court donors, and the places money often gets raised -- New York and Washington -- are hardly cheap. But the frequency of such outings in Mr. Paterson's campaign accounts is striking, especially when contrasted with the spending of other statewide candidates in New York.
 When asked about the expenditures at many high-end restaurants, bars and hotels, Mr. Paterson said in an interview, ''I haven't been to too many of those places.'' But his campaign manager, Richard Fife, acknowledged in a separate interview that the governor had been present at most of a long list of such establishments. 
 The governor attributed more than $1,800 in charges at the Ritz Carlton in Sarasota, Fla., to a trip he made to meet with someone he hoped could help him raise money. Asked if his trip broke even, he said, ''I didn't go down there for that reason,'' adding: ''I have a cousin who's ill in Sarasota. I went down to see my cousin.'' Mr. Paterson noted, ''I mean, I did sit by the pool at the hotel, I will admit to that -- that was kind of vacation-oriented.''
 Mr. Fife and other advisers, while broadly defending the expenditures, have recognized there was an early level of spending -- by their polling people, by aides to the governor, by others -- that needed to be reined in.
 ''We're being very careful about how we spend our money,'' Mr. Fife said. ''Previously, the campaign wasn't in campaign mode and maybe wasn't quite on top of every dollar and cent. But we are now.'' As he prepares his official kickoff to his candidacy on Saturday, the governor is leaning heavily on a small group of advisers, many of whom he has known for years, for guidance on campaign strategy.
 Increasing Isolation
 Mr. Paterson, who is legally blind, has always relied on trusted aides, in part because his disability forces him to turn to others for assistance with tasks like briefing himself on policy issues (he does not read Braille) and navigating crowded rooms.
 But he has also become more isolated over the past year as he made missteps and felt attacked. He blamed outside strategists, who departed soon afterward, for the blunders over the selection of a replacement for Hillary Rodham Clinton as senator, for example, and he seems most comfortable with those whose loyalty he does not question. 
 His approach, however, has meant that some senior policy advisers feel shunned, and staff members at times are puzzled about how decisions are being made. While office politics and jealousies play a role in any administration, the rise of a few prominent people with longtime ties to Mr. Paterson has been especially divisive.
 Along with Mr. Johnson, who joined Mr. Paterson as an intern in 1999 and has ascended to a top position despite drug arrests earlier in his life and more recent accusations of harassing women, Mr. Harris, 46, has developed great influence with the governor. 
 Mr. Harris was Mr. Paterson's roommate in the 1990s in Albany, when he was on the State Police force and Mr. Paterson was a state senator. A decade ago, Mr. Harris retired from the police with a disability. Mr. Harris declined to be interviewed, but the governor said his aide had become depressed and burnt out. 
 After leaving the force, Mr. Harris worked on and off on Mr. Paterson's Senate staff, until 2006, around the time he left Albany to begin a doctoral program at the University of Pennsylvania. When Mr. Paterson became governor in 2008, Mr. Harris returned with the title of senior adviser, and his role has since expanded.
 During meetings of the governor's executive staff, Mr. Harris has weighed in about Mr. Paterson's speeches on the economy, on issues affecting the black community and on other subjects.
 When Mr. Paterson set out to hire a new state police superintendent in 2008, he turned to Mr. Harris for advice. Mr. Harris spoke highly about Harry J. Corbitt, a retired deputy superintendent who headed the agency's personnel department when Mr. Harris left the force. 
 Mr. Corbitt had shown concern for Mr. Harris at that time, Mr. Paterson said, and the two men attended the same church in Albany.
 Mr. Corbitt initially was not the governor's first choice, but when the top candidate was not available, Mr. Paterson appointed him superintendent.
 As does Mr. Johnson, Mr. Harris stays overnight in the executive mansion regularly and enjoys a level of trust with the governor that other aides cannot seem to attain.
 ''As he became more embattled, his circle became tighter and tighter,'' one former commissioner said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid antagonizing the governor. ''His brain trust was shrinking.''
 While senior policy advisers to the governor have tried to adjust to Mr. Harris's increasing prominence, employees in the state's Washington office found it difficult to do the same after Mr. Paterson appointed an old girlfriend of his, Gabrielle Turner, to a key post there. 
 The office is involved in some of the most important work of his administration -- dealing with members of Congress, the White House and federal agencies. Thus, Mr. Paterson's decision to hire Ms. Turner as its deputy director came as a surprise.
 Ms. Turner had not worked in politics or government for 15 years, save a two-week stint as a volunteer on Barack Obama's presidential campaign, and her most recent job had been at a firm, Genesis Building Services, that she and her husband, Elijah Turner III, ran out of their Florida home. The governor's office initially sought to have her installed in the top position in the office but dropped that plan.
 ''It was clear she just wasn't right for the head of the office, she didn't have the substantive background, she even said as much,'' said an official the administration authorized to speak on background about the hiring. 
 Not long after Ms. Turner's connection with the governor became public -- they were photographed at a nightclub -- divisions in the office grew, and Mr. Johnson made a surprise visit to the office and told the employees that they were expected to be loyal to the governor. 
 ''I want to know who is with the governor and who isn't,'' one official briefed on the meeting said, describing the message Mr. Johnson delivered. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity, to avoid becoming an object of the governor's anger.
 Mr. Paterson defended Ms. Turner, saying she had not been involved in politics for many years but knew members of the New York delegation from work in the 1980s and '90s in the State Assembly.
 Within weeks, several staff members of the Washington office resigned, including the director, Veronica Sullivan. She served as chief of staff for Senator Charles E. Schumer when he was in the House, and in the same position for Representative Anthony D. Weiner, Democrat of Brooklyn, and worked in legislative and communications issues at the New York Stock Exchange. 
 Ms. Turner continues to work in the office.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. David A. Paterson beside his wife, Michelle Paige Paterson, and his aide Clemmie J. Harris Jr. moments before he was sworn in as governor in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Harry J. Corbitt was named State Police superintendent. Mr. Paterson says Mr. Harris spoke highly of him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEBETO MATTHEWS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mr. Paterson at a club in July with Rhonda Cowan, left, and Gabrielle Turner, whom he had appointed to a state job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAREIF ZIYADAT/FILMMAGIC) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); APPOINTMENTS (65%); POLICE FORCES (62%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); ELIOT SPITZER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



522 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Experts Must Face What Politicians Won't

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN

 BODY:
James Warren is a columnist for the Chicago News Cooperative.
 Austan Goolsbee, a wiry and droll economic adviser to President Obama, was addressing a private Chicago dinner last week when he entered the Death Valley of American politics: health care.
A member of the Council of Economic Advisors, he met amiable resistance while defending the administration plan to The Wayfarers Club -- whose 50 members include college presidents, nonprofit leaders, businessmen, a few journalists and Scott Turow -- which meets to hear speakers discuss issues of the day. Mr. Obama is a member but rarely appears. 
 But attendees did fully engage Mr. Goolsbee, including colleagues from the University of Chicago, from which he is on leave. This is unlike Congressional Republicans who are reluctant to attend Mr. Obama's televised summit on health care next week. 
 The comedian Jon Stewart has even mocked the House Republican leader, John A. Boehner of Ohio, who has fretted about walking into a ''trap.'' On his TV show, Mr. Stewart said the summit would be ''a public dialogue about important legislation -- not Little Big Horn.'' 
 With Republicans nervous, I decided to ask some real health experts what wisdom they would share if invited to the Obama gathering. 
 ''First, I'd ask the president and the Democrats if they have anything more innovative -- or anything to promote efficiency and save money -- beyond slashing a zero off the amount they pay doctors,'' said David Dranove, a professor of health industry management at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern. 
 As for the Republicans, Mr. Dranove would ask them, ''Do you have anything meaningful to offer in the debate?'' He would note that the overwhelming evidence suggested that malpractice reform would have at best a small impact on spending. And he'd inform them that most health economists believe that opening insurance competition across state lines will not make a dime's worth of difference for health insurance competition. 
 Michelle Gittler, medical director of the spinal cord injury program at Schwab Rehabilitation Institute in Chicago, is more focused on the quality of care. ''It seems that no one has an interest in putting care back into health care,'' Dr. Gittler said, ''least of all the people we elect and trust to make thoughtful, big decisions.'' 
 Dr. Gittler would invite summiteers to follow her on rounds so they could see that she can't send patients to specialists because few of them take Medicaid patients; can't discharge some because Medicare won't cover antibiotics at home, meaning they must stay or go to a nursing home, and can't coordinate care for the chronically ill because the federal Center for Medicare Services has, she said, ''run amok with clinical decisions made without input from clinicians.'' 
 Leemore Dafny, a professor of management and strategy at the Kellogg School of Management, would tell the summit that Americans want a low-cost, high-impact solution but are skeptical of top-down cost controls and uncertain savings -- and that many want to keep their current insurance. 
 Ms. Dafny said she would give individuals both the incentive and responsibility to choose their insurance. She would goad the assembled toward a ''game changer,'' namely equal tax treatment of employer and individual insurance, and the option to use employer subsidies toward individual insurance so people can vote with their dollars and choose the plan best for them. 
 She made an analogy to buying a car: With the current employer-based system, Americans now have a de facto choice of a $10,000 subsidy toward a Ford Taurus or no subsidy at all. ''I'd take a cheap Taurus over no car if that's my choice in the insurance market,'' Ms. Dafny said. ''But I'd be willing to take a smaller subsidy and buy my mini-van, which I really need.'' 
 Her research finds that, on average, employees would be willing to give up 27 percent of their employer subsidy to health insurance if they could apply what remained to the plan of their choice. But, she said, ''the political world has been basically silent about this.'' 
 Finally, I circled back to Mark Siegler, a Wayfarer member and director of the MacLean Center for Clinical Medical Ethics at the University of Chicago Medical Center, who had given Mr. Goolsbee some grief at the dinner. Dr. Siegler would tell the summit, ''You have to rebuild U.S. primary care and organize the U.S. health system based on a foundation of primary care rather than as it is now, the only health system in the world not structured around primary care.'' 
 Would any of this have an impact? On Tuesday, one Chicago daily offered three paragraphs on the capture of a key Taliban leader in Pakistan but six on the theft of a plastic promotional model for a new Alvin and the Chipmunks movie at a Gurnee movie theater. Wisdom may be a tough sell. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICARE (85%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); ANTIBIOTICS (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); CHRONIC DISEASES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (60%); MEDICAID (57%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (50%)

COMPANY: REHABILITATION INSTITUTE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS624310 VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES (52%); SIC8331 JOB TRAINING & VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (88%); JON STEWART (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010



523 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: A Shift in the Export Powerhouses

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
IN the first decade of the 21st century, world exports boomed and then fell sharply. And there was a restructuring of the major manufacturing nations of the world.
 In 1999, the top five exporting countries were the traditional industrial powers -- the United States, Germany, Japan, France and Britain. Combined, they accounted for 43 percent of the exports reported by 40 large countries. 
 As can be seen in the accompanying charts, a new order has emerged. China went from the ninth-largest exporter in 1999 to the largest in 2009. Germany, which passed the United States to become the largest exporter from 2003 to 2008, wound up in second place as the United States fell to third. Britain tumbled to No. 10, from No. 5.
 All told, the share of exports of the Big Five of 1999 fell to 34 percent in 2009. That loss of nine percentage points was matched by a similar gain for China, India and South Korea, with most of the gain going to China.
 Measured in dollars, Chinese exports rose at a compound annual rate of 20 percent through the decade.
 China even did better than most in 2009, when the combined exports of the 40 large countries fell by 21 percent. China's dropped by 16 percent that year.
 Among the top 12 shown in the graphic, the largest declines in 2009 -- all of 25 percent or more -- were recorded by Japan, Italy and Canada. The United States suffered an 18 percent drop.
 The 40 countries included in the tally are the largest ones for which figures are available through at least November. Among them, all but Belgium and Spain have reported December numbers. Their figures were estimated based on trends from September to November.
 Countries that report figures either annually or quarterly were not included. The largest exporters thus left out are mostly oil exporters, including Saudi Arabia. The figures cover exports of goods, not services.
 During the decade, American exports rose at a compound rate of a little more than 4 percent. That was far behind China and other emerging Asian exporters like South Korea (10 percent) and India (16 percent). But it was faster than Britain, Canada or Japan.
 Those figures are in nominal dollars, not adjusted for inflation. The gains would be different if measured in other currencies, like the euro or yen, but the order would be the same.
 There are indications of strong rebounds in exports as the world economy begins to recover. In December, American exports were 21 percent above where they had been in the same month of 2008, compared with China's 18 percent rise. China's exports were still much larger than those of the United States.
 Only a few countries, mostly in Asia, have reported January figures, but some of them showed explosive gains from the depressed levels of early 2009. China's exports rose 21 percent, but that paled in comparison to the 47 percent gain reported by South Korea and the 77 percent increase in shipments from Taiwan.
 A significant part of those gains may reflect the need to fill depleted inventories, rather than a surge in consumer demand. It remains to be seen whether world trade can return to the sustained high levels shown from 2003 through 2008, when exports of the 40 countries rose by more than 10 percent every year.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: World Trade Stumbles: ANNUAL CHANGE IN EXPORTS: from the world's major exporters
TOTAL EXPORTS: from the world's major exporters, in trillions
 TOP 12 EXPORTING COUNTRIES (Source: National reports, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); STATISTICS (89%); TRENDS (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDIA (92%); CANADA (92%); SPAIN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); FRANCE (73%); BELGIUM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



524 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; INSIDE THE RINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Valuing Consistency Over the Big Trick

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, British Columbia 

 BODY:
-- Evan Lysacek of the United States took the gold medal in Olympic men's figure skating Thursday, winning an event that was as much a philosophical debate as an athletic contest.
 ''It's fine to be the best jumper in the world, but does that mean you're the best figure skater in the world?'' Frank Carroll, Lysacek's coach, said in reference to the complaining of the silver medalist Yevgeny Plushenko of Russia. ''It's not figure jumping; it's figure skating.''
 And yet it was Plushenko, the 2006 Olympic champion, who showed more ambition, if less poise and stamina, in the free skate. He landed a quadruple jump, which requires four rotations in the air, while Lysacek did not attempt one at the biggest moment on skating's biggest stage. 
 Plushenko, who returned after a three-year retirement, views skating the way Shaun White views snowboarding: for a sport to grow, the tricks must become more intricate and daring. The quad has been a part of skating since Kurt Browning of Canada first landed one in 1988. 
 ''If the Olympic champion doesn't know how to jump quad, I don't know,'' a dispirited Plushenko said. ''Now it's not figure skating. Now it's dancing.''
 The men's free skate here was remindful of the women's free skate at the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan. Like Michelle Kwan, Lysacek was essentially flawless but also methodical, cautious and mechanical. Only this time there was no Tara Lipinski to snatch the gold medal away.
 Small technical differences put Lysacek on the top rung of the podium and Plushenko on a slightly lower rung after they received identical artistic scores.
 Lysacek made five jumping passes in the second half of his program, gaining a 10 percent bonus for each under the new points-based scoring system, while Plushenko made only three passes. 
 Plushenko landed his quad heavily, rescuing a triple toe loop but lacking sufficient speed to add a double loop on to a planned three-jump combination.
 Lysacek received only a judges' warning for a wrong-edged takeoff on his triple flip, not a 2- or 3-point deduction that would have changed the outcome, which was narrowly decided in his favor by 257.67 points to 256.36.
 Lysacek's spins were fast and lithe and centered, while Plushenko's were pedestrian. 
 Jumping unsteadily, Plushenko twice landed in a tilted position and nearly stepped out of a triple axel. And for all of his reliance on the quad, he attempted only one, not two, as he had a number of times before.
 ''I kept thinking, When is the second one coming?'' said Brian Boitano, the 1988 Olympic champion and the last American men's gold medalist before Lysacek. ''I was really surprised when it didn't. Plushenko thought one quad would be enough if he skated clean. But it's not enough just to be clean. You have to be clean and good.''
 At the finish of his free skate, with no competitors remaining, Plushenko raised his index fingers to signal that he was No. 1. But his tired body and resigned face suggested that he was No. 2 to Lysacek.
 ''Evan is such a strong mental skater,'' Boitano said. ''He has that unspoken quality.''
 It was not a classic gold medal performance, merely a sufficient one. Still, there is much to be said for composure in an urgent moment, an entire career compressed to four and a half minutes. An American Olympic champion was desperately needed to provide economic ballast to a sinking sport, Boitano said.
 Aleksei Mishin, Plushenko's coach, did not agree. He called Lysacek, the reigning world champion, a respectable skater, but said that his victory was ''nonsense.''
 Some journalists and judges have become ''Cyclops,'' Mishin said, myopically focusing on transitional moves between jumps instead of on the difficulty and innovation of the jumps themselves. It is the equivalent, he insisted, of judging the 100-meter sprint on style instead of speed.
 If quadruple jumps carry so little weight, Mishin said, ''What's the difference between men's singles and women's singles? Maybe we should combine them into a unisex event.''
 It has been a deflating start to the Olympics for Russian figure skating. Its pairs teams failed to win a gold medal for the first time since 1960. And now Russia has only one real chance for a gold medal -- in ice dancing.
 It may be thin consolation, but there is no small sympathy for Plushenko's point of view about the quad. Boitano, who always viewed himself as an athletic skater, said, ''I agree with him that figure skating needs to progress and get more technical.''
 Philippe Candeloro of France, the 1994 and 1998 Olympic bronze medalist, said: ''Evan did a very good job; all the jumps were clean. But my problem is, I didn't see any quad. For me, it could be much better for the ice skating world if Plushenko can win. It would be more respectable. People who like skaters like warriors.''
 Yet, Boitano and Candeloro thrived under the old 6-point scoring system. There is a new system in place now, one that values completeness over big tricks. Plushenko did not calibrate his Olympic program accordingly.
 ''If it was about doing one jump, they would give you 10 seconds and no music'' to complete the free skate, Lysacek said. But there are four and a half minutes to fill, not just with jumps, but with connecting steps, turns and spins.
 ''Many of these boys are supertalented, but they can't put a whole package from start to finish out there,'' Carroll said. ''And Evan is a master at that. So many times you've seen him skate from the start to the finish and he doesn't make a mistake. That's his strength, consistency.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: Figure skating 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINTER SPORTS (93%); ICE SKATING (92%); ATHLETES (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); SNOWBOARDING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (70%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (70%) CANADA (78%); UNITED STATES (73%); JAPAN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



525 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Power to Prosecute Police Goes to Civilians. Again.

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
On Thursday, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly gave lawyers from the Civilian Complaint Review Board, the independent agency that investigates allegations of police abuse, authority to prosecute police officers in cases now handled exclusively by the department's lawyers. But it was not the first time such powers have been proposed. 
 The changes are similar in spirit to a plan from 2001, when the Giuliani administration and Mr. Kelly's predecessor, Bernard B. Kerik, sought to reinforce the public's confidence in the department at a turbulent time. 
 But that plan was never put into place, and its stillborn fate is a cautionary tale today: It died after a battle with the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association led to an unfavorable split decision from the state's Appellate Division in 2003. While that decision merely struck down where the trials could take place, it also lessened the resolve of public officials in their push to give the review board the power to prosecute police officers at all. When the public spotlight moved on, the plan was forgotten. 
 Patrick J. Lynch, the association's leader, immediately criticized the new plan, suggesting a new fight this time around. ''This change is nothing more than a cynical public relations stunt, designed to placate the usual police critics,'' he said in a statement.
 Outside watchdogs of the Police Department said they were skeptical for different reasons. Some, including City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn, wonder if the board's new prosecutorial responsibilities will go far enough, since it is unclear whether board lawyers will have a say in picking which cases to bring to trial -- a crucial ability for any prosecutor. (A spokesman could not say Friday if board lawyers would be involved in decisions on what cases to bring to trial.)
 And a lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights said it was ''an inherent problem'' that the police commissioner would retain final say over whether to punish guilty officers.
 The timing of the announcement has also come under question, since Mr. Kelly and others could have acted at any time in recent years, but moved at a period in which department budgets are declining because of the economic crisis. It also is being proposed at a time when record numbers of New Yorkers are being stopped and questioned by the police and as the city is paying increasing amounts to settle court claims against the police.
 ''This change in practice is the partial implementation of a policy adopted by the N.Y.P.D. nine years ago, but never implemented,'' said Dick Dadey, the executive director of Citizens Union, which endorsed Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg for re-election last fall in part because he was open to such a move.
 ''I think City Hall and the N.Y.P.D. feel vulnerable on this issue,'' Mr. Dadey said. ''People on the street, they get stopped and frisked and they feel like they got unfairly treated and they are encouraged to go to the C.C.R.B., but the word on the street is, 'You know what, don't even bother because your complaint will get buried.' So there is a need to change how the city handles police misconduct.''
 Paul J. Browne, the Police Department's chief spokesman, responded: ''It sounds like Dick cannot take 'yes' for an answer.''
 Mr. Browne said the changes were made by Mr. Kelly and Ernest F. Hart, the chairman of the Civilian Complaint Review Board, after analysts for the Police Department told Mr. Kelly that any downside was negligible. He said changes would come ''within months,'' but that the details were being worked out. 
 It was with great promise that Mr. Kerik and Mr. Giuliani announced their plan nine years ago. 
 In February 1999, Amadou Diallo, an unarmed West African immigrant, died in the Bronx in a volley of 41 police bullets. Separately, federal prosecutors were finding problems in how the department handled complaints of brutality. Also, a study found that black and Hispanic New Yorkers were disproportionately subject to the department's so-called stop-and-frisk tactics; the findings led to a law, enacted in 2001, requiring police officers to note and report every time they stopped someone in public for questioning.
 Some of those same issues are being debated today.
 The number of street stops of civilians rose to a record high of 575,304 in 2009, as did the number of complaints from civilians to the board, 7,674. Most of the complaints have to do with officers stopping, questioning and frisking people. Yet the department is both increasingly dismissing cases referred to it by the board and imposing lenient sanctions when officers are found guilty, according to Donna Lieberman, the executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union.
 Ms. Lieberman and others have numerous questions about the new plan. They wonder how many board lawyers will do the new job and what kind of cases, and how many, they will handle.
 Mr. Browne said cases involving board complaints would be handled by board lawyers at trial, to the degree the board had adequate staffing. 
 Last year, 20 of the 130 administrative trials of police officers stemmed from complaints that had been made to the board. 
 The success of the proposal, Mr. Dadey said, would be linked to resources.
 After spending $11.3 million last year, the board is projected to spend $10.1 million this year, and is budgeted for $9.6 million next year, according to the mayor's management report. The board employed 178 people last year, has 168 employees now, and is slated to have 156 next year, it said.
 The 2001 proposal would have given board lawyers prosecutorial power and changed the venue for trials: moving them to the city's Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings from the department's trial rooms at Police Headquarters. The court struck that part down, Ms. Quinn said.
 ''It's an issue that has come up several times over the last eight years,'' said Peter F. Vallone Jr., the chairman of the City Council's Public Safety Committee. ''I'm not sure why they are pulling the trigger now, but it is something that many good-government groups have wanted for a long time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CITIES (86%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MAYORS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



526 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Flat U.S. Inflation Report Gives Fed Breathing Room

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Consumer prices were flat in January, the Labor Department said Friday, easing concern that the Federal Reserve will have to raise interest rates to ward off inflation soon.
 While the Fed has taken a small step toward scaling back emergency measures that supported the economy by raising an interest rate for short-term loans to banks, the data reinforced a sense that more severe tightening was still a way off.
 The report suggested that inflation was largely in check despite a period of extraordinarily low interest rates. That should ease some of the pressure on Fed policy makers as they consider when to raise the federal funds rate, a benchmark for market rates. 
 The cost of living in the United States remained steady in January, the Department of Labor said, with the price of a variety of goods -- including medical expenses and cigarettes -- increasing 0.2 percent. A closely watched measure that excludes volatile food and fuel prices, the cost of living underscored the downward trend: it fell 0.1 percent in January, the first decrease since the recession in 1982. 
 ''Despite the extraordinary fiscal and monetary stimulus injected into the economy, many prices are still stagnant or declining,'' Dan Greenhaus, chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak, wrote Friday in a research note. ''The pricing situation still remains fragile.''
 Despite rumblings on the possibility of deflation -- a three-month gauge of prices fell to zero last month -- economists generally expected the upward momentum to continue. Prices have risen 2.6 percent in the last year. 
 ''Even though the economy is expanding again, the threat of deflation has not passed,'' Paul Ashworth, an economist for Capital Economics in Toronto, wrote in a research note. He said that high vacancy rates and a flood of foreclosed homes would continue to depress housing costs.
 As it battled the global financial crisis, the Fed printed more than $1 trillion in new money and kept interest rates near zero, prompting criticism that it was setting the stage for rampant inflation.
 But prices remain subdued. That could change as banks begin to lend money they hold in reserves, but the Fed hopes tighter monetary policy and efforts to drain some reserves will counteract any inflation. 
 On Thursday, the central bank moved toward withdrawing its efforts to prop up the economy, announcing that it would raise the interest rate it charges on short-term loans to banks, known as the discount rate, by a quarter of a percentage point. Analysts do not expect the federal funds rate to rise for at least six months. 
 The Labor Department attributed much of the increase in consumer prices, measured by its Consumer Price Index, to rising energy costs -- primarily gasoline, fuel oil and natural gas. A decrease in the price of rent, new cars and airline tickets helped offset rising energy prices.
 Economists said the results indicated that businesses were keeping prices low to try to attract price-conscious customers. 
 ''People are very much price-sensitive, they are still paying down their debts,'' said Anna Piretti, senior economist for BNP Paribas. ''That is going to be the theme for some time. Prospects for employment are not looking very bright.''
 A report on jobless filings on Thursday rekindled worries that the labor market would be slow to rebound. First-time claims last week were much higher than expected -- 473,000, up 31,000 from the previous week. 
 The data on consumer prices beat Wall Street forecasts, and helped calm some of the nervousness that emerged on Wall Street after the Fed said it would raise the discount rate.
 On Thursday, the government offered a similar portrait of inflation in its report on producer prices, which rose 1.4 percent in January. Higher prices might be in the pipeline, especially for metals, food and energy products. 
 It is unclear whether businesses can afford to pass rising costs to consumers. If they do not, that may worsen their financial health and prolong unemployment.
 ''If producers see their profits being hurt they will be more reluctant to hire,'' Ms. Piretti said. ''It's a circle.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Consumer Prices: Percentage change, month to month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); COST OF LIVING (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); DEFLATION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); GASOLINE (79%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FORECLOSURE (76%); TRENDS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (67%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



527 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Reassured About Inflation, Investors Push Shares Higher

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ; Bettina Wassener contributing reporting.

 BODY:
Stocks were slightly higher Friday as investors saw signs that inflation remained subdued in the United States. That eased anxiety over the Federal Reserve's decision to increase an important interest rate. 
 Stocks wandered for most of the day but managed a fourth consecutive day of gains, finishing one of the best weeks for the major indexes since November.
 Financial markets began the day down sharply after the Fed increased the rate on loans made directly to banks, heightening concern that the era of cheap money was drawing to a close. 
 As the session went on, shares turned positive, largely because of a report that showed only a slight increase in consumer prices in January. The report suggested that inflation was not an immediate threat, easing some pressure on Fed policy makers to raise its benchmark interest rate -- the federal funds rate -- in the near future. 
 But the markets lost some of their momentum in the afternoon as large investment firms reduced their exposure to risk before the beginning of a new week, analysts said. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 0.09 percent, or 9.45 points, at 10,402.35. The wider Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.22 percent, or 2.42 points, to 1,109.17, led by gains in shares of utilities companies and financial firms. The Nasdaq gained 0.1 percent, or 2.16 points, to 2,243.87. 
 For the week, the Dow was up 2.92 percent, the S.& P. 500 rose 3.04 percent, and the Nasdaq increased 2.69 percent.
 Investors were watching the Fed's interest-rate balancing act because of its implications for future profits. While an increase in interest rates suggests the recovery is on track, it also portends that more expensive lending could take a toll on earnings. Banks in particular stand to suffer, after using a period of low rates to reap huge profits. 
 ''The Fed is taking the training wheels off the financial system,'' said Alan M. Gayle, senior investment strategist for RidgeWorth Investments. ''The market is concerned that this is another step in the direction of an eventual tightening.'' Analysts expect fear of higher interest to continue to hang over the markets.
 As stocks gained, the dollar continued its recent rise against the euro, trading at around $1.36. Crude oil prices rose nearly 1 percent to $79.78 a barrel, and gold climbed modestly to $1,121 an ounce.
 The Fed's move to raise rates, announced after the close of trading on Thursday, was seen as the first significant step to withdrawing some of the stimulus measures deployed in late 2008 in response to an escalating global financial crisis. 
 Interest rates fell slightly on Friday. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 7/32, to 98 25/32, and the yield fell to 3.77 percent, from 3.80 percent.
 Major stock markets in Europe fluctuated as investors wondered whether the Fed's decision would prompt the European Central Bank to raise its benchmark rate from its record low, 1 percent. The FTSE 100 in London closed up 0.62 percent, the CAC-40 in Paris rose 0.58 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt was 0.73 percent higher. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); EURO (70%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



528 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Bus and Subway Ridership Falls For the First Time Since 2003

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Ridership on New York City's buses and subways declined last year for the first time in six years, apparently a victim of the economic downturn. 
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority recorded 2.31 billion rides in 2009, officials said Friday. Since the late 1960s, only one other year has seen higher demand for the system: 2008, when about 63.5 million more trips were taken. The 2.7 percent drop was the first decline since 2003, another period of economic trouble. 
 Subway ridership fell the most in Manhattan, particularly in the Midtown business district, a drop that transit officials attributed in part to higher unemployment fueled by rounds of layoffs in the major industries, like media and finance, that have headquarters in the area. All five boroughs saw small declines in bus and subway ridership. 
 ''I don't think people have left the system because they don't like the system; I think it's all economic-based,'' said Andrew Albert, the chairman of the New York City Transit Riders' Council. ''It's very small, considering the job losses.''
 Buses and subways did better than the region's other mass transit options. Weekday ridership fell 5 percent on the Long Island Rail Road, 4.2 percent on Metro-North and 3.6 percent on PATH trains. The Staten Island Ferry, however, enjoyed 5.3 percent more trips than in 2008. 
 Still, the news was not good for the transportation authority, which is weighing service cuts as it struggles with a budget shortfall of about $400 million. Lower ridership meant $2.1 million less fare revenue than projected, straining a crucial source of financing.
 The popularity of unlimited-ride MetroCards, which reduce the price of a single ride, meant that, on average, subway rides cost only 8.5 cents more last year than in 2008, despite a June fare increase that raised a single ride to $2.25 from $2. The average fare across the system rose to $1.41 from $1.33 in 2008. 
 The authority collected about $56 million in unused fares from expired MetroCards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LAYOFFS (74%); FERRIES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); ISLANDS & REEFS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



529 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Working Without a Standard Playbook, the Fed Plans Its Moves on Rates

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Sewell Chan reported from Washington and Jack Ewing from Frankfurt. Bettina Wassener contributed reporting from Hong Kong, and Javier C. Hernandez from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In raising the interest rate it charges banks for short-term loans, the Federal Reserve set the stage on Thursday for the day when the recovering economy will lead it to begin a broader campaign to tighten monetary policy.
 The question now is how long it will be until that day arrives.
 The Fed and its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, face a complex set of forces as they decide how and when to reverse the aggressive steps they took to contain the financial crisis and the ensuing damage to the economy. 
 With the financial system awash in money and economic growth picking up, inflationary forces are possible. But with unemployment hovering near double digits, with Mr. Bernanke under attack for his performance in the runup to the crisis and with Congress moving to pare back the central bank's powers, economic and political pressures are weighing against rapid interest rate increases. 
 How Mr. Bernanke manages the pivot to tighter policy will test his skills nearly as much as the near collapse of the banking system and the worst recession in generations. 
 Managing expectations, said Karen E. Dynan, who was a longtime Fed economist and is now co-director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution, is one of the Fed's greatest challenges. 
 ''No one knows what's going to happen as they start to withdraw this unconventional monetary policy,'' she said. ''These linkages are not understood. It's critical right now for the Fed to be laying out its logic and persuading markets that its logic makes sense.'' 
 Given that unemployment is nearly 10 percent, she said, it is unusual that inflation expectations have not declined. Economic forecasters expect a core measure of inflation to average 2.39 percent a year from 2010 to 2019, an increase from 2.26 percent when the survey was last conducted, according to a quarterly survey of forecasters released last week by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 
 ''People are worried about the size of the balance sheet,'' Ms. Dynan said. ''They're worried that there's a tipping point whereby the Fed's balance sheet gets so large that it triggers inflation.'' 
 Matthew J. Slaughter, an economist in the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth, said that any number of narratives seemed plausible. ''You can reasonably tell stories about high inflation emerging in the next few years -- or persistently high unemployment,'' he said. ''It would be great to have strong economic recovery and modest inflation.''
 Just as Mr. Bernanke had to improvise to create emergency programs to address the liquidity crisis threatening the capital markets, so too will he have to be nimble in unwinding them.
 The termination of four emergency lending programs on Feb. 1, and the quarter percentage point increase in the discount rate the Fed charges banks , mean that the Fed is reducing the liquidity it opened in 2008 when credit markets froze. 
 But with considerable slack in the economy, the Fed says the benchmark interest rate it controls -- the one that most influences rates paid by consumers and businesses -- will stay near zero ''for an extended period'' of at least several months. 
 ''It's hard to see inflation picking up anytime soon, so there is time for the Fed to normalize,'' said Kristin J. Forbes, an economist at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management. 
 After Mr. Bernanke presents his semiannual monetary policy report to Congress next week, the central bank will be looking ahead to March 31, its self-imposed deadline for ending its purchases of $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed securities and another $175 billion in debts guaranteed by federally controlled housing entities like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 ''The discount rate, from the Fed's point of view, is not the punctuation point,'' said Bruce C. Kasman, chief economist at JPMorgan Chase. ''The bigger event, in terms of market reaction and consequences, is the end of the mortgage purchases.'' 
 Economists call those asset purchases, along with the Fed's holding of interest rates near zero, quantitative easing. It is one of the most extreme forms of monetary policy, and although the Fed has now outlined an exit strategy, there is no precedent to examine. 
 ''There's no playbook for this,'' Mr. Slaughter said. ''The Fed and other central banks -- including the European Central Bank, the Bank of England, and the Bank of Japan, though it has dealt with quantitative easing longer -- have to figure out how to shrink their balance sheets and return to more traditional central banking.'' 
 The Fed's balance sheet reveals the depth of the challenge. As of Wednesday, the balance sheet stood at $2.2 trillion. The assets included $1.03 trillion in mortgage-backed securities and $165.6 billion in debts guaranteed by housing entities. The Fed's asset purchases have helped to cradle the housing market and keep mortgage interest rates down. 
 Short-term Treasury bills, historically a mainstay of the balance sheet, now make up just a tiny fraction of the picture. 
 On the liabilities side, banks hold $1.2 trillion in reserves at the Fed. When the time comes to tighten credit, Mr. Bernanke has indicated, the Fed will start with the interest rate on excess reserves -- a policy tool Congress gave the Fed in October 2008. 
 Raising that rate would discourage banks from pulling out their reserves and increasing the money supply too quickly. It would also have the effect of lifting the benchmark Fed funds rate, the rate at which banks lend to each other overnight. 
 Compared with the enormous challenge posed by the balance sheet, the decision to raise the discount rate on loans made directly to banks, to three-quarters of a percentage point from half a percentage point, which was effective Friday, might seem insignificant. As of Wednesday there were $14.2 billion in discount-window loans on the balance sheet, down from a peak of $110.7 billion in October 2008. 
 But even though the Fed had indicated that the discount-rate increase was coming, the timing took many by surprise. Mark W. Olson, a financial regulatory consultant and a former Fed governor, called it ''eye-catching.''
 ''From inside the Fed, it may have been seen largely as technical, but outside the Fed, it is seen as more than that,'' Mr. Olson said. 
 The apparent divide between those who were taken aback by the timing of the increase and those who were not ''probably means that he found a decent balance,'' Ms. Forbes said. 
 ''If you perfectly telegraph when you're going to do it, you might as well do it that day, since so much of interest rate and monetary policy is about expectations,'' she said. ''It doesn't matter so much what it is, versus what was expected.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke faces tough choices in timing the tightening of monetary policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INFLATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RECESSION (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



530 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Obama Invites G.O.P. Lawmakers' Health Care Ideas

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
Days before a high-profile summit meeting that could determine the future of his health care overhaul, President Obama made an impassioned appeal for the legislation here on Friday, challenging Republicans to come to the table with their own ideas.
 Back in Washington, leading Republicans fired back that the president was not negotiating in good faith. 
 ''I think this is the right thing to do,'' Mr. Obama said during a town-hall-style question-and-answer session in the nearby town of Henderson. ''The Republicans say that they've got a better way to do it. So I want them to put it on the table.''
 Mr. Obama continued: ''I'm not an unreasonable guy. If you show me that you can do the things we just talked about -- protect people from insurance problems, make sure that the costs are controlled and people who don't have health insurance are covered -- you can do it cheaper than me, then why wouldn't I do that? I'll just grab your idea and say, 'Great,' and take all the credit. So show me what you got, but don't let the American people go another year and another 10 years and another 20 years without health insurance.''
 Mr. Obama's pitch came during a swing to this economically hard-hit state that was intended to give a boost to Senator Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat and Senate majority leader who is in a tough fight for re-election. With Mr. Reid by his side, the president announced a $1.5 billion program to help struggling homeowners in five states, including Nevada. 
 The president also used the trip to offer an explanation to city officials who had accused him of undermining tourism in the state with a recent off-the-cuff comment suggesting Americans should not ''blow a bunch of cash in Vegas when you're trying to save for college.''
 Mr. Obama said the remark ''wasn't meant as a shot,'' and he offered up a family tidbit: His mother-in-law is a frequent visitor to Las Vegas.
 But it was health care that seemed foremost on Mr. Obama's mind and on the minds of questioners at the town-hall session. Mr. Obama has invited leading Republicans and Democrats to the all-day televised meeting, scheduled for Thursday at Blair House in Washington. In preparation, his administration is planning to post a health measure on the Internet by Monday, 72 hours before the session, as the president has pledged to do.
 News that the administration was drafting a bill, and planning to use a controversial legislative maneuver known as reconciliation to pass it through Congress, drew an angry reaction from Representative Eric Cantor, the House Republican whip. Mr. Cantor criticized the White House at a gathering of conservatives and expressed his anger in an e-mail statement to reporters.
 ''If the president's intention for the health care summit is to finally show that he is ready to listen and work in a bipartisan way to produce incremental reforms that the American people support, he is off to a rocky start,'' the statement said. 
 The Republican leader in the Senate, Mitch McConnell, said: ''Using reconciliation would be an acknowledgment that there is bipartisan opposition to their bill, another in a series of backroom deals, and the clearest signal yet that they've decided to completely ignore the American people.''
 As the White House envisions the summit meeting, Mr. Obama will preside over a conversation in which each side puts forth its ideas for how to fulfill his major goals: expanding coverage to tens of millions of Americans who currently lack health insurance, while at the same time controlling costs. On Friday, Mr. Obama urged Americans to tune in.
 ''Pay attention next Thursday when we have this health summit,'' Mr. Obama said. ''You may not want to watch all six or eight hours of it -- you've got other things to do -- but pay attention to what this debate is about.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on Friday joined Senator Harry Reid for a public session in Henderson, Nev. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); BAD FAITH (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); CITIES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HARRY REID (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%) NEVADA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



531 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MILITARY ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Campaign in Afghan Town Went Beyond Traditional Battle Goals

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Before 10,000 troops marched through central Helmand Province to wrest control of a small Afghan town from a few hundred entrenched Taliban fighters, American officials did something more typical of political than military campaigns: they took some polls.
 Perhaps no other feature of the offensive now under way in and around the town, Marja, speaks so clearly to its central characteristic: it is a campaign meant to shift perceptions as much as to alter the military balance, crush an enemy army or seize some vital crossroads. 
 The polling was aimed at understanding what local residents wanted; how they viewed local security; what they thought of the Americans, the Taliban and the foreign jihadis fighting for local control; and what might give them confidence in the central government in Kabul.
 Whatever the limitations of this opinion sampling -- what is the margin of error when there are whole neighborhoods where it is deadly to knock on doors? -- what the commanders learned helped shape the entire campaign. Among other things, those living in the area still harbor some friendly feelings for the Americans, remembering how years ago they built dams in the region, and strongly favor an effort to oust the Taliban. 
 That gave the military extra confidence as they mounted a counterinsurgency operation that stands out in many ways. 
 Notably, this was the first time that the Americans took pains to involve the central government of President Hamid Karzai in such a significant operation, let alone a multiphase campaign that included the military, government and economic stability. Aside from contributing thousands of troops, Mr. Karzai and his aides, with significant help from the Americans, basically built a government in waiting. The aim is for the Afghan government to carry out programs in education, health and employment as soon as the area is secured, according to a senior American officer.
 The size of the onslaught was a departure from past practice, too. The allied force is so large as to be described by one senior American adviser as ''overwhelming to the point of saturation.''
 And the operation was advertised, almost in neon lights, so far in advance and in such detail that there was none of the element of surprise that combat commanders usually prize.
 All of those characteristics are explained by the psychological goal of this campaign, a shift of perceptions among the fence-sitters and the fearful among the Afghan people.
 Even domestically, the operation is supposed to show Americans that the buildup ordered by President Obama can have swift and positive results. The White House is not declaring victory, though; after Mr. Obama was briefed by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, his field commander, on Tuesday, the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, said only that the campaign was ''highly planned and orchestrated.''
 The project was set in motion six months ago, when General McChrystal reported to President Obama that the Taliban, despite its relatively light forces, had seized the initiative largely through adroit exploitation of the tools of psychological warfare. Insurgent leaders had become more nimble at exploiting even small victories -- and retelling even their battlefield defeats as successes through a propaganda network of radio broadcasts, Web postings and threatening, hand-delivered ''night letters'' to Afghan villages.
 The problem was how a foreign army, no matter how much it built up, could drown out the Taliban message and try to recast the Afghan government and its coalition partners as winners. Combat operations measured by industrial-age standards of captured terrain and enemy dead had to be replaced by another standard adapted to the information era: whether the operation can win the trust of the local people. 
 ''The biggest thing is in convincing the Afghan people,'' General McChrystal said in Istanbul, where he joined Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates to brief NATO allies just before the offensive began. 
 ''This is all a war of perceptions,'' General McChrystal said. ''This is not a physical war in terms of how many people you kill or how much ground you capture, how many bridges you blow up. This is all in the minds of the participants.''
 Senior Pentagon and military officers also point out that the troop ratio reverses several years in which planners sought to capitalize on new technologies and new theories of military reform to fight in both Iraq and Afghanistan with the smallest possible forces. ''The number of the enemy did not drive the equation,'' said one senior American officer involved in the Marja effort. ''It was a calculation based on how much ground we wanted to cover with a security blanket to reassure the population.''
 The senior officer and other military officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak about the operation.
 Although it is a battle for public support, it is by no means a phony war. The bullets, bombs and booby traps are real, putting everyone in the area, including civilians, at real risk. 
 The leaflets scattered over the region persuaded some of the Taliban to flee in the face of the onslaught, but others dug in and laid down mines. 
 It was a risk that the commanders accepted, hoping that civilians, at least, would be able to stay relatively safe. They knew that one of the principal dangers to their psychological war would be the anger stirred if civilian casualties were high.
 They are hoping the campaign will be short. Officers say the major combat portion of the offensive should be over within a month or so.
 Then political and economic development advisers, now standing by, will move in behind the combat force, along with two thousand Afghan police officers. 
 On Thursday, the British commander of NATO forces in southern Afghanistan, Maj. Gen. Nick Carter, told reporters at the Pentagon that it would take months to judge whether the local residents were satisfied.
 ''We probably won't know for about 120 days whether or not the population is entirely convinced by the degree of commitment that their government is showing to them,'' General Carter said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Afghan soldiers in Marja during this week's fighting. American and British forces have been joined by Afghan troops in the attack. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Military Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



532 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Revisiting Nuclear Power: A Debate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Reasonable Bet on Nuclear Power'' (editorial, Feb. 18):
 I was dumbstruck by your editorial supporting the building of new nuclear power plants without ever mentioning the elephant in the room: nuclear waste. 
 I live eight miles from an earthquake-prone coastline, the home of Diablo Canyon's two nuclear reactors and highly radioactive nuclear waste. This waste is growing daily. There's no plan for its removal because there's nowhere to put it. 
 It is irresponsible and fatuous to support new nukes when all of our energy needs can be met by conservation and renewables. Leaving the ''poison fire'' for our great-grandchildren to deal with is neither sustainable nor sensible. 
 Linda Seeley San Luis Obispo, Calif., Feb. 19, 2010
 To the Editor:
 It is true that right now is the time to encourage investment in new nuclear plants, and that the loan guarantees are a necessity. Nuclear plants bring the jobs we want, demanding skilled labor and large-scale, high-technology construction. They have demonstrated over the last 20 years that they can be run safely and efficiently. 
 The history of the 1970s and 1980s is that it was the government and the legal system that bogged down nuclear construction and ran up the costs. They created the skittish financial market for nuclear, and they need to help provide the assurance that it will not happen again.
 Neil B. Morley Los Angeles, Feb. 18, 2010
 The writer is senior research scientist, Fusion Science and Technology Center, University of California, Los Angeles.
 To the Editor:
 Uranium 235 is exhaustible; in fact, we have more coal than uranium. If breeder reactors are used, their plutonium 239 requires no further concentration to build ''dirty'' nuclear bombs. 
 Nuclear power is also dangerous because the temporary casks used for storing fuel rods can be penetrated by regular weapons, and there are no other options, as there are no permanent storage facilities anywhere in the world. An additional risk is cyber-terrorism through the Internet, which has already been attempted in Ohio. 
 On top of all this, renewable energy costs less than nuclear. Further investments in a nuclear future take economic resources away from the conversion to a clean and inexhaustible energy future. 
 President Obama's support of nuclear energy will also support his being a one-term president.
 Bela Liptak Stamford, Conn., Feb. 18, 2010
 The writer is the editor of the Environmental Engineers' Handbook.
 To the Editor:
 Your support for President Obama's nuclear energy plans is one of the most disappointing editorials I have ever read in your paper. I suspect that you were able to support them only by closing your mind to at least one key question: What will be done with the nuclear waste?
 No one has come up with an answer for that in decades. Perhaps with your enthusiasm for the president's plan you could volunteer your backyard as a burying ground, but somehow I don't think you'd see that as reasonable. 
 Barry Rehfeld Editor, Zero Energy Intelligence.com New York, Feb. 18, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW HOLLISTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); NUCLEAR WASTE (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); WRITERS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (78%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (77%); CHILDREN (76%); CYBERCRIME (75%); ENGINEERING (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (64%); TERRORISM (62%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (62%); CYBERTERRORISM (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); GRANDCHILDREN (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



533 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Steelworkers Say Reactors Will Create Overseas Jobs

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and MATTHEW L. WALD; Matthew L. Wald reported from Washington and Keith Bradsher from Hong Kong.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The United Steelworkers union has complained that a government-backed plan to build two nuclear reactors in Georgia will create jobs overseas that should go to American workers.
 President Obama announced the government's approval of an $8.3 billion loan guarantee for the construction of the reactors on Tuesday, saying that one benefit of the project would be to create jobs.
 But in a letter sent to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the international president of the union, Leo W. Gerard, said that he was concerned about ''the potential foreign sourcing of components for these reactors,'' which he said ''limits our nation's ability to address our unacceptably high unemployment rate.'' 
 In the letter, Mr. Gerard also expressed concern that if the parts were manufactured in China, substandard quality might pose a safety issue. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission oversees the safety of nuclear reactors.
 The reactor project will create thousands of construction jobs at the site, near Augusta, Ga. And Mr. Obama said that building the reactors would create about 800 permanent jobs.
 But according to Westinghouse, the company that designed the reactors' central components -- including the reactor vessel and part of the giant heat exchangers called steam generators -- can be obtained only from steel mills in Japan and South Korea, which are certified for the work. 
 The company said design changes it was already considering would, if adopted, allow American steel makers to compete for contracts. Westinghouse is based in Pittsburgh, but is owned by a Japanese company, Toshiba.
 Thomas M. Conway, vice president for the steelworkers union, said that American taxpayers should not bear the burden of loan guarantees that would create jobs abroad. The Energy Department now has $18.5 billion to offer in guarantees for the construction of new nuclear plants. Mr. Obama is seeking to triple that number.
 ''If we're going to start shoveling a lot of money at nuclear, and nuclear is part of America's plan to get less oil-dependent, then we need to build it ourselves,'' Mr. Conway said. 
 Because the construction of nuclear power plants involves heavily unionized workers, labor unions have been mostly supportive. And the president needs that support because the Democratic Party is divided on nuclear power.
 Nuclear power is a global industry, and most designs for reactors have been developed by foreign companies or foreign-owned companies, and involve some components that are manufactured only overseas.
 Southern Company, which hopes to have a license in hand by the end of next year to build and operate the new reactors in Georgia, has not said what the project will cost. But based on the 70 percent that the loan guarantee is supposed to cover, it would appear to approach $12 billion. Westinghouse said at least 20 percent of that would be spent abroad. 
 The Westinghouse design includes a freestanding steel structure, about an inch and three-quarters thick, called a containment vessel. The current design calls for the containment vessel to be made of strips of steel, 13 feet wide and 130 feet long, with 11 strips stacked one atop the other. American steel mills are not equipped to manufacture the 13-foot strips, Westinghouse said.
 But because the company would like to encourage American companies to compete for the contracts, it is considering changing the design so that it uses strips 11 feet wide, stacked 13 high, said Vaughn Gilbert, a spokesman for Westinghouse.
 The law under which the loan guarantees were made, the Energy Policy Act of 2005, does not have a ''buy American'' clause. But even the Tennessee Valley Authority, which as a federal agency does have such a preference, was forced to buy 20 percent of the components for its Watts Bar Unit 2 reactor from overseas because they were not available in the United States, said Ashok S. Bhatnagar, the authority's senior vice president for nuclear operations, at a Platts nuclear energy conference in Washington this week.
 The fastest-growing nuclear power industry in the world is in China, which has built a factory near Qingdao just to produce extra-large containment vessel plates of the sort needed by Westinghouse. With plans to build up to three-quarters of the world's new reactors in the coming decade, China needs that factory's capacity for its own projects, said William P. Poirier, the Westinghouse vice president who oversees the company's operations in China.
 ''China is moving very aggressively in all of the areas of clean energy -- clean coal, wind, solar and nuclear,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Vogtle nuclear power plant in Waynesboro, Ga. A new project would create construction jobs at the plant. (B1)
 Construction vehicles at the Vogtle nuclear power plant in Waynesboro, Ga. Southern Company hopes to operate new reactors. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK S. LESSER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%)

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (83%); SOUTHERN CO (82%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (83%); 6502 (TSE) (83%); SO (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (82%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (82%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



534 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1227 words

PERSON: Carl Kaysen 

HEADLINE: Carl Kaysen, Kennedy Aide Who Helped Negotiate Nuclear Test Ban, Dies at 89

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Carl Kaysen, who wove a tapestry of expertise through economics, foreign policy, sociology, environmentalism and the law, but whose pre-eminent achievement was probably his role as President John F. Kennedy's behind-the-scenes negotiator of the groundbreaking nuclear test ban treaty with the Soviet Union in 1963, died Feb. 8 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 89.
 His wife, Ruth Butler, confirmed the death.
 It is daunting to grasp the complexity of Dr. Kaysen's career. In the simplest summary, he was a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for 34 years, starting in 1976; the director of the prestigious Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton from 1966 to 1976; and a professor at Harvard from 1947 to 1966 -- and that summary does not count his two years as deputy national security adviser in the Kennedy White House. 
 But during those seven decades, Dr. Kaysen delved into and delineated a kaleidoscopic array of subjects, threading them with his economic expertise. His books and research papers, the committees he led and the conferences he organized illuminated, among other topics, antitrust policy, game theory, industrial organization, the limits of scientific inquiry, the future of higher education, international verification of greenhouse gas emissions, instability in international capital flow, cybersecurity and the demand for electricity in the United States.
 Throughout his career, but particularly in recent years, Dr. Kaysen focused on foreign affairs. He conducted research on the establishment of the International Criminal Court, how to counter corruption in emerging nations, the justification for international intervention in rogue states, the technical problems of arms limitation and the global nuclear future.
 For more than 50 years, Francis M. Bator, a professor emeritus of political economy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, worked closely with Dr. Kaysen. 
 ''If this guy leads you through a maze that is totally unfamiliar to you,'' Dr. Bator said last week ''not only will you not get lost, but he will make it so clear that you will be able to draw a map of the maze. His power of synthetic explanation was extraordinary, so that everything fit in place. He could do this with complicated economic organization, social issues, foreign policy problems.''
 Kennedy said as much when Dr. Kaysen left the White House in 1963. ''I know of no one who has the comparable ability to analyze a large amount of material and then put the essential information in a report in a way which makes the decision process much easier and more precise,'' the president said in a statement. 
 On June 10, 1963, in a historic commencement address at American University, Kennedy unilaterally declared a moratorium on the testing of nuclear weapons in the atmosphere. The Soviet premier, Nikita S. Khrushchev, responded by calling for negotiations in Moscow. The American delegation was led by W. Averell Harriman, who was then assistant secretary of state for Far Eastern affairs.
 ''But Carl Kaysen was sent along as the man who knew the policies and the options forward and backward,'' Theodore C. Sorensen, President Kennedy's special counsel, said in a telephone interview, ''and among his instructions was to report to the president every day.''
 The Limited Test Ban Treaty, signed by the United States, the Soviet Union and Britain on Aug. 5, 1963, prohibited tests of nuclear devices in the atmosphere, under water and in outer space. 
 ''After that treaty was concluded in Moscow, it was hailed by the president and the world as the first substantial step toward arms control in the nuclear age,'' Mr. Sorensen said. It has since been signed by more than 100 nations.
 This was not the first time Dr. Kaysen played a crucial behind-the-scenes role. For 13 days and nights in October 1962, while the president and other top-ranking administration officials were gripped by the Cuban missile crisis, Dr. Kaysen became known in the White House as ''vice president of the rest of the world,'' Mr. Sorensen said.
 ''There were a good many danger spots in those days: Berlin, Laos, Congo,'' Mr. Sorensen continued. ''Carl was the president's liaison with the Defense Department, the State Department, the C.I.A., making certain that the president's policies were being carried out.''
 Disarmament, and ultimately peace, became one of Dr. Kaysen's primary passions. In a 1990 essay, ''Is War Obsolete?,'' he wrote: ''The international system that relies on the national use of force as the ultimate guarantor of security, and the threat of its use as the basis of order, is not the only possible one. To seek a different system with a more secure and a more humane basis for order is no longer the pursuit of an illusion, but a necessary effort toward a necessary goal.''
 Born in Philadelphia on March 5, 1920, Carl Kaysen was one of three children of Samuel and Elizabeth Resnick Kaysen. After graduating from the University of Pennsylvania in 1940, he worked in Washington as an economist for the Office of Strategic Services. He joined the Army Air Forces in 1941 and, with a team of other young economists, was sent to London. Their assignment: pick targets for bombing missions, like factories and oil refineries, that would most impair the German war effort.
 Dr. Kaysen earned a master's degree in economics at Harvard in 1947 and his doctorate there in 1954. By then he was an assistant professor at Harvard but had also served as a law clerk for Judge Charles E. Wyzanski Jr. of United States District Court.
 That was unusual for someone without a law degree, but Judge Wyzanski needed an economist to advise him in a landmark case in which the United Shoe Machinery Corporation was eventually found guilty of violating the Sherman Antitrust Act by monopolizing its leasing practices. Dr. Kaysen's 1956 book, ''United States vs. United Shoe Machinery Corporation,'' became a seminal antitrust study.
 After graduating from Penn, Dr. Kaysen married Annette Neutra, whom he had known since they sat next to each other in first grade. She died in 1990. Four years later, he married Ruth Butler, an art historian. She survives him, as do his sister, Flora Penaranda, and two daughters, Jesse and Susanna, the author of the acclaimed memoir ''Girl, Interrupted.''
 Dr. Kaysen received a Fulbright scholarship and a Guggenheim fellowship in 1955. A year earlier, he had been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, one of the nation's oldest policy research centers (it was founded in 1780). He was named chairman of the academy's committee on international security studies in 1995.
 He was chairman of the Federation of American Scientists in 1997 when a seismic event rocked the Russian wilds and some American officials asserted that it might have been an underground nuclear blast -- a violation of the test ban treaty.
 Saying that the tremor was unquestionably natural in origin, Dr. Kaysen wrote to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, asking for a formal investigation of the incident. 
 ''In our view,'' he wrote, ''this event reflects a longstanding cold war practice of acting on semidigested intelligence information which is, inevitably, leaked to justify an alarm, after which no sound is heard after the alarm turns out to be false.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 25, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Saturday about Carl Kaysen, who helped negotiate the 1963 nuclear test band treaty, misstated the year he began teaching at Harvard. It was 1950, not 1947. (He was a junior fellow in Harvard's Society of Fellows from 1947 to 1950.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carl Kaysen (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM E. SAURO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%); ENERGY DEMAND (65%); EMERGING MARKETS (64%); CORRUPTION (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (52%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (56%); EDUCATION INTERNATIONAL (55%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (54%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



535 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: A Fee That Hides In the Luggage

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
Starting Monday, your credit card company will have to follow a long list of new rules.
 Because of legislation that President Obama signed last year, your bank won't be able to charge you a fee for spending more than your credit limit anymore, unless you've told the company that you want to be able to exceed the limit. 
 Banks will have to give you at least 45 days' notice before raising cash advance and late fees. And any mandatory fees like annual or application fees can't add up to more than 25 percent of the credit limit, as they often used to with cards that companies aimed at people with poor credit histories.
 But here's one fee that the new law didn't limit, even though it has offended scores of consumers for at least a decade and adds up to hundreds of millions of dollars every year for the credit card companies: the foreign transaction or currency conversion fee. 
 Most big American banks hit you with these fees of up to 3 percent of every purchase when a merchant processes your credit or debit card purchase outside the United States. International travelers are most affected. But those shopping on the Web from their homes may also pay. 
 Given that the card companies don't have to do all that much to turn yen and euro transactions into ones denominated in dollars, 3 percent seems a bit rich. So why didn't the card act put a cap on the fees? One reason is that business travelers and upper-middle-class vacationers aren't a particularly downtrodden class of consumers. And few people lose more than a few hundred dollars to the levy each year.
 But here's the problem. If a few million people each year don't notice the fees or keep paying them despite their irritation, the card companies go right on charging them. Meanwhile, the banks stand to lose a lot of revenue because of new laws like the Credit Card Act. They'll want to make it up somewhere, so they may feel emboldened to raise the currency conversion fees further.
 So now is as good a time as any to take a closer look at exactly who's charging the fees, who isn't and why. Once you do, you'll probably find the whole thing noxious enough to go just a bit out of your way to avoid paying them.
 The fees began with Visa and MasterCard, and even today, those companies generally charge banks that issue their credit and debit cards a 1 percent fee to perform the actual currency conversions for their transactions. Those banks are free to pass that cost on to customers, and in most cases they do, adding on another fee for good measure.
 Today, Chase, Citibank and Bank of America all charge a 3 percent fee in most instances. American Express tacks on a 2.7 percent fee, though companies that make heavy use of its corporate cards may get a better deal. 
 Until a few years ago, you'd pay this fee for any purchase that wasn't denominated in dollars. Then, some middlemen got wise to this and offered to help merchants convert purchases into dollars before running the charge through the credit card networks. 
 Many American shoppers felt better paying in dollars, but the exchange rate wasn't particularly good. The merchants got to keep part of that extra markup that travelers paid. And because the transactions were in dollars, the card companies' fees didn't apply. 
 The card giants in the United States didn't particularly like getting cut out of the deal, so many of them started levying their foreign transaction fee for any purchase that took place outside the country, whether in euros, dollars or some other currency. 
 Even if you don't travel abroad, you may still get hit with the fee elsewhere. If you buy an international plane ticket online from an airline that processes your payment outside the United States, the fee could apply. People who run Web sites and host them outside the United States are also paying. The merchant probably won't warn you about this ahead of time, either. You'll find out when you get the bill.
 How do the banks justify charging up to 3 percent total? Representatives for American Express, Bank of America, Chase and Citi weren't particularly interested in itemizing their costs in detail for me. 
 One cost they do bear is the expense of fraudulent transactions, which occur more often on charges outside the United States. Fair enough, but how much more often? No one I asked would say.
 According to The Nilson Report, a payments industry newsletter, for every $100 in total transaction volume on United States credit cards, about 7 cents ends up being fraudulent. But David Robertson, the newsletter's publisher, said he did not know how much higher the number would be if it measured only transactions that took place outside the United States. 
 Would the figure rise to the couple of hundred cents that the banks' 3 percent fees might suggest? Most industry experts said they thought the costs are nowhere near that high, given that many big international charges come from legitimate companies. 
 ''Is there any particular reason that there is a greater risk associated with the Hilton London than the Hilton Miami?'' said Lawrence M. Ausubel, an economics professor at the University of Maryland. ''How about the Hilton Toronto? It's completely ridiculous.''
 Joe Brancatelli, who runs the joesentme.com site for business travelers and suggested that I take a closer look at these fees after passage of the Credit Card Act, is simply tired of always having to reach into his wallet to cover somebody else's stealing. ''Every time there is a fee involved, they say that you have to accept that there is the potential for fraud here,'' he said. ''How many times are we going to pay for that?''
 The card companies do have other costs related to transactions that take place outside the United States, including a higher volume of calls from confused customers. 
 Even so, Duncan MacDonald, who was general counsel for Citi's card business in Europe in North America for part of the 1990s, said he believed that the fees provided a big boost to the issuers' bottom lines. ''My guess is that some major part of it is just pure profit,'' he said. 
 He pointed me toward revealing details in Schwartz vs. Visa, one of the many lawsuits that ultimately led banks to disclose these fees more prominently. The trial judge, Ronald M. Sabraw, noted that from Feb. 1, 1996, through Dec. 31, 2000, Visa had $6.9 million in multicurrency conversion costs for American cardholders and $630.1 million in currency conversion and related revenue. 
 Visa and MasterCard ''merely act as a clearinghouse, performing arithmetical calculations at insignificant cost,'' Judge Sabraw concluded.
 There is no law against extraordinary margins. And even at 3 percent, the card companies offer a better deal than currency exchanges.
 But if you don't want to contribute to the card issuers' bottom lines while you're on vacation, there is a simple alternative. When you travel outside the United States or make purchases that originate there, use a credit card from Capital One, which charges nothing for the privilege. Or try the Schwab Invest First Visa, which works the same way. Cards from smaller banks or credit unions may have similar policies.
 How much money is Capital One leaving on the table? ''It's a real number, and not one I would want out there in the public domain,'' said Ryan Schneider, president of the company's card business. ''We made the strategic call that we were pleased to cover the costs for customers because we like that customer segment and we think it will generate customer loyalty.'' He added that the company had no plans to add the fee in the next 12 months. 
 Capital One and Schwab won't solve all of your problems. You'll need cash for your trip,too, so call your bank before you leave town and ask what sort of fees you'll pay at the A.T.M. Some banks may waive some of the fees. Then plan your withdrawals accordingly. 
 Like many of you, I suspect, I love the rewards I earn on my American Express cards. But when I leave the country, they stay in the back of my wallet. And until all of us shift our spending in protest, it's hard to imagine the foreign transaction fees will ever fall. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American tourists in Rome. Credit card fees on foreign transactions, which can hit 3 percent, are a profit center for issuers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HELGREN/REUTERS) (B4) GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY JENNIFER DANIEL) (B1)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DEBIT CARDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (66%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



536 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Fewer People Late Paying Mortgage

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
Even as the Obama administration stepped up efforts to aid homeowners facing foreclosure, data released Friday indicated that the housing crisis might finally have stopped getting worse.
 The number of homeowners falling behind on their mortgage payments almost always rises with the start of winter. But late last year, the total fell slightly, the Mortgage Bankers Association said in its quarterly delinquency report.
 ''We've got fewer new problems coming into the system,'' Jay Brinkmann, the group's chief economist, said in a briefing. The improvement in the fourth quarter, he added, ''frankly surprised us.'' 
 The system, however, is still overwhelmed with millions of distressed homeowners. In a series of events in the Las Vegas area on Friday, President Obama said he was designating $1.5 billion from the Troubled Asset Relief Program to develop assistance programs in five of the most troubled states, including Nevada.
 The money will go to state housing finance agencies, which are being told to use it in innovative ways. The administration has not ruled out using some of the money to write down the loan amounts for underwater borrowers, though $1.5 billion would not go far for that purpose.
 The housing market is at a difficult juncture. Last summer's modest recovery in home prices has apparently ceased. The government's effort to compel lenders to modify troubled mortgages has done relatively little. And the pool of pending foreclosures is so large that it is likely to be a drag on the market for years.
 About one in seven homeowners with a mortgage is struggling to pay it, an unprecedented level of distress that threatens to undermine the fragile economic recovery.
 The Obama administration has been under pressure to take more drastic steps, including developing programs that would cut the mortgage balance for distressed owners. Any such program that used taxpayer dollars could prove highly controversial, but Friday's announcement seemed to open the door, at least slightly.
 ''This fund's going to help out-of-work homeowners avoid preventable foreclosures,'' Mr. Obama told a public forum in Henderson, Nev. ''It will help homeowners who owe more than their homes are worth find a way to pay their mortgages that works for both the borrowers and the lenders alike.''
 The administration is consciously leaving details of the new program to state agencies that are closest to the problem.
 The mortgage bankers' group defines its broadest delinquency category as those who have missed at least one payment but are not yet in foreclosure. That number fell to a seasonally adjusted rate of 9.47 percent in the fourth quarter, down from 9.64 percent in the third quarter. 
 Much of the improvement was because of a drop in the mildest category of default, those who have missed only one payment. The bankers said that only three times before in the history of their survey, which began in 1953, had the 30-day delinquency rate dropped from the third quarter to the fourth quarter, and never by this magnitude. 
 Mr. Brinkmann credited a stabilizing employment picture for the decline. If the normal seasonal patterns hold in the first quarter, he said, the rate should continue to fall. 
 Any celebration would likely be premature, however. A report this week from the credit bureau TransUnion measured a group of slightly more stressed owners and found less hopeful news.
 Owners who missed two payments increased to 6.89 percent in the fourth quarter, from 6.25 percent in the third quarter, TransUnion said.
 ''We definitely saw things getting worse,'' said F. J. Guarrera, TransUnion's vice president for financial services. ''Our forecasters are projecting it will now take longer for us to emerge from the housing crisis.''
 The bankers' data showed the number of owners missing at least three payments was up significantly. By that point, foreclosure is often inevitable.
 The number of owners in this category rose in the quarter, to 9.67 percent, from 8.85 percent. Since the fourth quarter of 2008, the number of seriously delinquent owners has risen by half.
 The percentage of loans in foreclosure went up in the fourth quarter, rising to 4.58 percent from 4.47 percent in the third quarter, the Mortgage Bankers said. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the rate was 3.30.
 Banks have been reluctant to proceed to full foreclosure with many of their seriously delinquent borrowers. In some cases, this is to give the borrowers a chance to win a modification. Critics say another factor is that banks do not want to acknowledge on their balance sheets the loss that foreclosure brings.
 This supply of distressed properties, often called the ''shadow inventory,'' will eventually need to be cleared. A report this week from Standard & Poor's estimated it would take three years for all the delinquent loans to make their way through the process at their current rate of liquidation.
 These foreclosures will continue to push prices down, which would be good for new buyers but could also push more owners further underwater and perhaps encourage them to abandon their properties.
 ''While the bulk of the problem has presented itself, there is still a universe out there we have to deal with,'' said Diane Westerback, an S.& P. managing director.
 By far the states with the highest percentage of delinquencies are Florida and Nevada, where one out of four homeowners with a mortgage is behind. 
 The Treasury Department will divide the $1.5 billion in assistance programs among those states and Arizona, California and Michigan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaking in Henderson, Nev., on Friday, President Obama said that he was designating $1.5 billion from the Troubled Asset Relief Program for assistance programs in five of the most troubled states, Arizona, California, Florida, Michigan and Nevada. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (76%) NEVADA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



537 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Differences In Priorities Drive Rift With China

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
When President Obamamet with the Dalai Lama in the White House on Thursday, he was following a tradition that all recent American presidents had dutifully honored.
 Yet, to some Chinese Mr. Obama's support of the Dalai Lama represents something more troubling and disrespectful. The meeting, while low-profile, and the routine announcement last month of American arms sales to Taiwan, were taken as the latest signs that despite China's rapid ascent, the American government still refused to compromise on issues that China considered sacrosanct: matters of sovereignty and territorial integrity.
 On Friday, the Chinese Foreign Ministry called in Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the American ambassador here, to lecture him on the Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader of the Tibetans, whom China considers a separatist. 
 ''At this time, China and the U.S. cannot find any agreement on strategic issues,'' said Yan Xuetong, director of the Institute of International Studies at Tsinghua University.
 Few American officials would disagree. The rift in United States-China relations has arisen in part because the two countries have completely different items at the top of their foreign policy agendas and are talking past each other, American officials say.
 They say that China emphasizes sovereignty issues while refusing to give any weight to the Obama administration's two top priorities in the relationship: containing Iran's nuclear ambitions and rebalancing currencies and trade. The Americans have also highlighted issues of Internet censorship and security. 
 ''There's not a lot of overlap in the Venn diagram,'' an American official involved in China policy said on the condition of anonymity, following diplomatic protocol. ''What's really the most worrisome is the degree to which we have that disconnect.''
 Those tensions are likely to worsen in coming months as domestic pressures in each country push the governments to assert their agendas more boldly, and as China's confidence in its economic system continues to grow. 
 On the American side, a struggling economy is forcing the Obama administration to make currency valuation and market liberalization top priorities. With an unemployment rate of nearly 10 percent and midterm elections coming up, American officials are aware that pushing China to raise the value of its currency, the renminbi, and allowing American companies greater access to some Chinese markets could be important political victories for Mr. Obama and his party. 
 ''We've got to look at the risk of a more populist American public and the U.S. Congress deciding that China is the reason our economy isn't growing enough,'' the American official said.
 Economists say the renminbi is undervalued by 25 to 40 percent, a wider gap than at any other time since 2005, when, under pressure from the Bush administration, China decided to allow the renminbi to float in a narrow band against the dollar and other currencies. The renminbi appreciated 21 percent, but has not moved at all since July 2008. This month, Ma Zhaoxu, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, rejected an unusually public call by Mr. Obama for China to revalue its currency, saying that ''the value of the renminbi is getting to a reasonable and balanced level.''
 The problem for the Americans is that job creation is also a priority for the Chinese government, because the legitimacy of the Communist Party is based largely on economic growth. A year ago, when the global recession resulted in a severe slump in exports, Chinese officials said 20 million migrant workers lost their jobs. The export industry in China is only now starting to recover, and the low value of the renminbi is crucial for Chinese companies selling goods abroad.
 ''With economic and trade issues, we're in for a very difficult year,'' said Kenneth G. Lieberthal, a scholar at the Brookings Institution who worked on China policy in the Clinton administration. ''I see Chinese protectionism growing on the ground as well as on the U.S. side, with midterm elections coming up.''
 But some economists say China is likely to let the renminbi rise by about 5 percent to help stave off inflation, a growing concern among Chinese policy makers. Historically, high inflation has stirred unrest in China. 
 Economists say the Obama administration and European allies can press China to revalue the renminbi by threatening to impose more tariffs on manufactured goods. Last fall, the American government imposed tariffs on Chinese tires and steel pipes. European officials have privately said that China's increasingly unyielding stance on issues like human rights has made it politically easy for European governments to toughen up on tariffs.
 Michael Pettis, a professor of finance at Peking University, said he expected the Chinese government to raise the value of the renminbi by a few percent by the spring. But raising the value too quickly could lead to widespread bankruptcies among manufacturers here, he said.
 ''China must recognize the pressures on the other countries, but the other countries need to recognize that China will not be able to adjust quickly,'' he said.
 Iran's nuclear programis the other top priority for the White House. China says it does not support economic sanctions against Tehran, despite widespread suspicions that Iran wants to create nuclear weapons. So the question for the Obama administration is how to ensure that China will not block a United Nations Security Council vote on sanctions. Iran is a major supplier of oil to China, and China balks at siding with Western nations against Muslim governments, partly because its officials are sensitive to ethnic unrest by Uighur Muslims in western China.
 ''China just doesn't see Iran as part of its core national interest, except for that fact that Iran collects a lot of natural resources for them,'' the American official involved in China policy said.
 But Russia, which had previously opposed sanctions, has been showing signs of reaching the limits of its tolerance with Iran, and the White House hopes that China will give in if Russia supports sanctions. Despite China's newfound confidence, the American official said, China still does not want to be seen as a lone spoiler on major global issues.
 ''Eventually,'' he said, ''the Chinese will cave once they've gone as far as they can go without looking like they're the ones blocking all this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Dalai Lama's visit to the White House on Thursday angered China on a territorial issue that it considers sacrosanct. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: An Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); CURRENCIES (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ARMS TRADE (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); CENSORSHIP (50%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (92%); TIBET (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



538 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Conservatives Get a Look at Possible Candidates

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Kate Zernike contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For all the talk of Sarah Palin these days, there are two Republicans who are already laying the groundwork to run for president in 2012 -- Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota and Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts. 
 Both appeared before a crowd of influential conservatives this week to offer a portrait of how they plan to run against President Obama, and seek to harness the surge of energy from the Tea Party movement, which tends to be suspicious of establishment Republicans like them. 
 Mr. Romney and Mr. Pawlenty offered full-throated endorsements of the positions of most concern to attendees at the Conservative Political Action Conference. They attacked Mr. Obama, saying that he had tried to foist a big-spending government on an unreceptive public, that he was weak in his dealings with foreign leaders, and that he was coddling terrorism suspects. Mr. Romney went so far as to present Mr. Obama as a failed president.
 Yet there were differences between these two men that emerged over two days and gave the party a chance to compare them. Mr. Romney made little or no mention of social issues, like abortion or same-sex marriage, after having taken intense criticism during the 2008 campaign for moving rightward to head off conservatives' concerns. 
 But Mr. Pawlenty offered supportive language that was well understood by opponents of abortion and same-sex marriage, talking about ''the sanctity of life'' and ''traditional marriages.'' He also rejected any kind of secular view of government as he listed ''four ideas that I think should carry us forward.''
 ''The first one is this: God's in charge,'' he said. ''There are some people who say, 'Oh, you know, Pawlenty, don't bring that up. You know it's politically incorrect.' Hogwash.''
 Aside from a few activists and the Revolutionary War re-enactor who has become a regular at Tea Party events, as well as mainstream Republican leaders who have embraced the movement, the Tea Party may have been here more in spirit than numbers. The fact that social issues came up at all -- Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, the chairman of the House Republican conference, urged the crowd to embrace ''traditional moral values without apology'' -- showed how different this was from Tea Party events, which usually tend to stick to economic issues.
 Yet Mr. Romney and Mr. Pawlenty are well aware of Ms. Palin's appeal to the Tea Party movement, and they went to great lengths to cast their lots with this new power. When he spoke on Thursday, Mr. Romney was introduced by Senator Scott Brown of Massachusetts, who captured his seat with significant Tea Party backing last month, a victory that made him something of a hero here.
 And the normally mild-mannered Mr. Pawlenty offered fiery remarks on Friday that could have been delivered at a Tea Party meeting. 
 ''When you listen to the elites and the pundits talk about the Tea Party movement, or they talk about us as conservatives, they may not always say it explicitly,'' he said. ''But implicit in their comments are, you know, maybe they're not as sophisticated, because a lot of them didn't go to the Ivy League schools. Or you know, they're from places like the heartland, not -- you know, they don't hang out at our Chablis-drinking, Brie-eating parties in San Francisco.''
 ''And the implication is, you know, we're kind of bumpkins,'' Mr. Pawlenty said.
 Both men sought to outdo each other with attacks on Mr. Obama. And both even turned to the same source material -- the Winter Olympics -- for jokes about the president's problems. 
 Mr. Romney: ''In case you didn't hear the late-breaking news, the gold medal in the downhill given to American Lindsey Vonn has been stripped. It was determined that President Obama is going downhill faster than she is!''
 Mr. Pawlenty: ''If government spending were an Olympic sport, he would be a repeat gold medalist.''
 In the past, presidential candidates have approached this conference cautiously: It put presidential candidates at risk of moving so far right to curry favor that their remarks could be used against them as they courted the center in a general election.
 There was no ambivalence this year as Mr. Romney and Mr. Pawlenty sought to pay tribute to the movement and embrace its favored causes.
 ''The president accuses us of being the party of 'no,' '' Mr. Romney said. ''It's as if he thinks that saying 'no' is by definition a bad thing. In fact, it is right and praiseworthy to say no to bad things. It is right to say no to cap and trade, no to card check, no to government health care, and no to higher taxes. My party should never be a rubber stamp for rubber check spending.''
 Mr. Pawlenty credited the audience with bringing the conservative movement back from the brink. And he warned, reflecting a recurrent complaint here, that elected Republican officials could no longer accept the backing of conservatives and than abandon their beliefs. ''If we give our team members and leaders the jersey of conservative, and they are going to lead and govern under the banner of conservative, then they need to go to Washington, D.C., and walk the walk,'' Mr. Pawlenty said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota attacked the president on Friday at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMANDA LUCIDON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (71%); MARRIAGE (71%); TERRORISM (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); TIM PAWLENTY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); MIKE PENCE (79%); SARAH PALIN (78%); SCOTT BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



539 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Falling Further Behind

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

DATELINE: Harrisburg, Pa. 

 BODY:
 One section of the Maytown Elementary School in rural Maytown, Pa., was built in 1861. Another section was built in the late-1920s. There's a time clock in the ancient gym that was donated by the class of 1946.
 This is a school that could use an update. No, scratch that. It needs to be replaced. 
 Shelly Riedel, superintendent of the Donegal School District, which includes Maytown, told me that teachers can't mount smart boards in their classrooms because of the asbestos ''encapsulated'' behind the walls. The asbestos is not dangerous as long as the walls are not disturbed. The electricity is not particularly reliable. A teacher who is using, say, an overhead projector has to check to make sure that other teachers are not using similar devices at the same time as that might cause an outage.
 There is no air conditioning. And there is no money right now to replace the school, which has an enrollment of 237.
 You can travel the United States and find comparable, or worse, conditions in schools throughout the country. It's part of the overwhelming problem of maintaining and modernizing American infrastructure. It's hard to even get good data on the physical condition of the nation's schools. But Lawrence Summers, President Obama's chief economic adviser, has said that 75 percent of the public schools have structural deficiencies and 25 percent have problems with their ventilation systems.
 The Donegal district is planning to build a bare-bones regional high school with money from its general budget. The existing school, which was built in 1954, has many problems, including a sewage system that saw its best days when names like Eisenhower and Kennedy were on the mailbox at the White House. The proposal for the new high school does not even include an athletic field for the kids. 
 Getting the nation's schools up to date is an enormous problem, but it's only a small part of the overall infrastructure challenge. In Pennsylvania, a state in which the governor, Ed Rendell, is all but obsessed with infrastructure, there are still thousands of bridges that either need a lot of work or should be replaced.
 Fifty-one miles of Interstate 95, the main north-south highway on the East Coast, make their way through southeastern Pennsylvania. Construction of the highway began more than a half-century ago, before Barack Obama was born. Rina Cutler, Philadelphia's deputy mayor for transportation and utilities, noted that long stretches of I-95 are now reaching the end of their useful life and will have to be rebuilt. 
 In a report titled ''Just Because You Ignore It Doesn't Make It Go Away,'' Ms. Cutler wrote:
 ''These stretches require reconstruction that is conservatively estimated to cost $6 billion to $10 billion over the next two decades. This badly needed investment could be expected to support tens of thousands of jobs over that period. The Federal Highway Administration has estimated that every $1 billion of investment in the Federal Highway Aid program generates 42,100 full-time equivalent jobs.''
 Schools, highways, the electric grid, water systems, ports, dams, levees -- the list can seem endless -- have to be maintained, upgraded, rebuilt or replaced if the U.S. is to remain a first-class nation with a first-class economy over the next several decades. And some entirely new infrastructure systems will have to be developed.
 But these systems have to be paid for, and right now there are not enough people at the higher echelons of government trying to figure out the best ways to raise the enormous amounts of money that will be required, and the most responsible ways of spending that money. And there are not enough leaders explaining to the public how heavy this lift will be, and why it is so necessary, and what sacrifices will be required to get the job properly done.
 In an era of historically high budget deficits, the case has to be made that this is not wasteful spending but essential investments that will yield powerful returns. ''If you're not willing to invest,'' said Governor Rendell, ''you have to be willing to accept an inferior product. That's the danger we're facing.''
 There are sound ideas available for raising the money to rebuild America's infrastructure. These include, most prominently, a proposed national infrastructure bank, which would allocate public funds and also leverage private capital for the most important projects. In the absence of a national bank, it might be possible to establish regional infrastructure banks.
 The point is that top government leaders should be seeking as many solid and creative ideas as possible, with the goal of moving with dispatch on the best ones. The only thing at stake is the economic future of the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RURAL SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); HVAC SYSTEMS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (72%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (74%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



540 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Looks Risky, but Less So for Bargain Hunters

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
EVEN a cursory glance at recent events in commercial real estate would make you think the next big collapse is upon us. 
 First, there was the default last month by Tishman Speyer Properties and BlackRock Realty on billions of dollars in loans on Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, the huge apartment complexes in Manhattan. When the deal was done, in 2006, it was the biggest of its kind in American history. 
 And this week, Simon Properties tried to buy General Growth Properties, its shopping mall rival, for $10 billion, a price General Growth says is too low even though the company is in bankruptcy.
 Yet in the midst of this, financial advisers are telling their wealthy clients that there is tremendous opportunity in real estate. What is equally intriguing is that these investors are looking again at something as illiquid as a building, which goes to show just how quickly people can reacquire their appetite for risk if it means higher returns. 
 ''The trick with investing in commercial real estate is not knowing if something is bad, but knowing if that 'bad' is priced in,'' said David Frame, global head of alternative investments at J.P. Morgan Private Bank.
 The next few years are expected to be bad for commercial real estate largely because the rosy predictions made when the buildings were purchased in 2005 and 2006 have not come true. First, the values of those buildings have plummeted, as much as 45 percent in some instances. That is going to make it difficult for the owners to refinance their mortgages over the next few years. Second, the recession has reduced the rents and occupancy rates on which those inflated values were based. 
 But what's bad for an owner may be good for an investor.
 STATE OF PLAY The opportunities in commercial real estate run the gamut of risk, from buying undeveloped land to buying stock in real estate investment trusts, or REITs, which invest in property and mortgages. 
 Mike Ryan, head of wealth management research for the Americas at UBS Wealth Management, said while there were risks in commercial real estate, they would not be as bad as many bearish analysts had predicted and certainly not on the level of the residential real estate crash. 
 ''The notion that the other shoe is about to drop and we'll see a wholesale liquidation of property is overdone,'' he said. But, he added, ''We're not saying people should plow in.''
 Yet Mr. Frame said he saw the coming refinancing crisis in commercial real estate as a continuum of what has been happening with other securities in the last 18 months. ''Our job has been to look through the capital markets and identify where there's been a scarcity of capital,'' he said, meaning where investors sold their positions quickly and fearfully. The first opportunities to take advantage of a turnaround were with convertible bonds and private equity. ''Now,'' Mr. Frame said, ''we think the opportunity in real estate is much broader than it was 12 months ago.''
 OPTIONS So how are people seeking to profit in commercial real estate? This depends on whether they are passive investors, who want to allocate some money to real estate, or entrepreneurs seeking to buy buildings.
 Many investors who did not make their fortunes in real estate remain cautious. ''You have to help them view real estate as private equity because you're locking up your money for some period of time,'' said Joanne Jensen, a private banker at Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management.
 But if they're going to invest in real estate, they want the security of high-quality investments. ''I'm speaking to a lot of real estate investors, and what they've been telling me is there's been a bifurcation between the 'A' quality buildings and everything else,'' Ms. Jensen said. 
 One intriguing strategy is to buy the underlying mortgage debt of buildings whose value was inflated. The debt is now trading at a deep discount. This may sound risky, particularly if the owner walks away from that debt, as happened with Stuyvesant Town. But Mr. Frame sees it as a way to make either a little or a lot of money. 
 He described one possibility: a building was purchased for $100 million in 2006. It is now worth less, but the underlying mortgage is still $50 million, and it is coming due next year. The owner is probably going to have a tough time refinancing the mortgage without putting in more money. That uncertainty is reflected in the price of the debt.
 ''Say it's 70 cents on the dollar, or $40 million for the first-lien mortgage,'' he said. ''If, in the next year, I get paid off, I get a 12 percent return. If not, I own the building at 60 percent off the original purchase price.'' 
 In many cases, he said, clients are hoping they do not get paid back because the return from owning the building could be far greater. But the risk is they may have to hold that property for at least several years. 
 Some of his other ideas carry the same caveat: they require time. In this category, he included buying land prepared for developments that have stalled or buying loans from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The agency acquired these from banks and has bundled them into packages to be sold off.
 Hotels are one area in which the investment turnaround could come faster. Their occupancy rates plummeted in the recession, and many were further hurt by having too much debt. ''The most upside can come from hotels, if we get an uptick in the economy,'' Mr. Frame said. ''But the risk is high.''
 Still, he said he believed that all these seemingly risky investments were actually predicated on caution. ''We're not taking an optimistic view of the recovery,'' he said. ''As long as it doesn't get dramatically worse, we'll be O.K.''
 REIT stocks are a more liquid alternative. They went through their own steep decline last year. In March 2009, REIT stocks were down 75 percent from their February 2007 high, according to the leading REIT index. The index had rebounded to half of its peak, but REIT stocks slid again after the Federal Reserve raised its lending rate to banks on Thursday. This is not necessarily a bad thing for long-term investors. 
 ''We think REITs are trading roughly at the net-asset value'' of the properties they own, said Thomas N. Bohjalian, a portfolio manager at Cohen & Steers, a real estate investment firm. ''And that is not the ceiling; it's the floor.'' 
 What is more significant than stock price, he said, is Cohen & Steers's prediction that dividends on REIT stocks will grow by an average of 12 percent over each of the next five years. REITs are legally required to pay out 90 percent of their taxable income annually. In flush times, they were paying out a good portion of their cash flow as well. As income from REIT-owned properties rebounds, so will the dividends.
 CAUTION All these investment ideas are predicated upon patience and a healthy stomach for risk. With REITs, for example, Mr. Bohjalian said he did not expect double-digit dividend growth to start until 2011. 
 This patience works two ways. Ms. Jensen has several clients who have made their fortunes in real estate but have struggled to find properties at the discounts they expected. ''They're not willing to do a deal that doesn't make sense,'' she said.
 That may be a good mantra for any investor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas N. Bohjalian of Cohen & Steers, left, sees opportunities in real estate investment trusts. David Frame of J. P. Morgan Private Bank, right, tells investors to be sure that '''bad' is priced in.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); PRIVATE BANKING (75%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (74%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); HISTORY (71%); RETAILERS (70%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC (57%); UBS WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%)

TICKER: GGP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (57%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



541 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 CALLS FOR NOBEL LAUREATE TO SEEK EGYPT'S PRESIDENCY
 Hundreds of people were waiting at the airport in Cairo to greet the Nobel Peace Prize winner Mohamed ElBaradei on his first return to Egypt since retiring as director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Their message for him: run for president. PAGE A4
 U.S.-CHINESE RIFT WIDENS
 Relations between the United States and China have deteriorated in part because the two countries have different items at the top of their agendas and are talking past each other, American officials say. A news analysis by Edward Wong. PAGE A4 
 DROUGHT IN PHILIPPINES
 A drought in the Philippines has destroyed tons of crops, reduced the country's water supply and is threatening widespread blackouts as power companies contend with low water levels in hydroelectric dams, officials said. PAGE A5 
 MILITANT'S BROTHER IS KILLED
 A missile believed to have been fired from an American drone killed the younger brother of a top militant commander in the North Waziristan tribal area of Pakistan, according to several Pakistani officials, residents in Waziristan and a friend of the commander's family. PAGE A6 
 THE CAMPAIGN IN MARJA
 When American and allied forces pushed into the Taliban stronghold of Marja, in southern Afghanistan, last week, they relied heavily on one of the military's most versatile tools: the drone, the use of which has expanded quickly and virtually unnoticed in Afghanistan. PAGE A6 
 Before the military campaign in Marja, American officials did something more typical of a political campaign: they did polling. Indeed, the offensive is meant to shift perceptions as much as crush an enemy army. A military analysis by Thom Shanker. PAGE A6 
 Twelve NATO service members, including at least eight Americans, have died in the first week of the offensive in Marja, with more than half the fatalities occurring in the last two days. PAGE A7 
 IRAN'S LEADER REJECTS REPORT
 A day after the United Nations issued a report citing evidence of an effort in Iran to develop a nuclear warhead, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, said his country was not seeking to develop such weapons. PAGE A7 
 NIGER IS CALM AFTER COUP
 The military junta that overthrew the president of Niger began asserting its authority, amid signs of support within the country and condemnation from abroad. PAGE A7 
 National
 TO SOME IN WEST, MONUMENT CAN BE A FIGHTING WORD
 An old fight reignited this week when Representative Rob Bishop, Republican of Utah, pointed to an Interior Department memorandum suggesting that 14 huge blocks of land in Western states were being considered for National Monument designation. PAGE A8
 OBAMA CALLS ON G.O.P.
 In a town hall meeting in Las Vegas, President Obama made an impassioned appeal for legislation to overhaul the health care system, challenging Republicans to come to the table with their own ideas. PAGE A9 
 POSSIBLE 2012 CANDIDATES
 Two Republicans are already laying the groundwork to run for president in 2012: Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota and Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts. Both offered full-throated endorsements of the positions of most concern to the attendees of the Conservative Political Action Conference. PAGE A9 
 New York
 JUDGE DECLINES TO REVERSE EXPULSION FROM SENATE
 A federal judge refused to reinstate former Senator Hiram Monserrate. Rejecting Mr. Monserrate's claims that his expulsion was unconstitutional, the judge wrote that a legislative body's power to expel its members is ''embedded in American democracy.'' PAGE A11
 VOODOO STILL MISUNDERSTOOD
 In the voluminous media coverage of the earthquake in Haiti and its aftermath, relatively few journalists and commentators have recognized the importance of voodoo to Haitians, and even fewer have gotten voodoo right. On Religion by Samuel G. Freedman. PAGE A12 
 Obituaries
 CARL KAYSEN, 89
 An expert on economics, foreign policy, sociology, environmentalism and the law, he was President John F. Kennedy's behind-the-scenes negotiator of the groundbreaking nuclear test ban treaty with the Soviet Union in 1963. PAGE A13 
 REX NETTLEFORD, 76
 A Jamaican scholar, educator and choreographer, he devoted his life to studying postcolonial Caribbean culture and in the process helped shape it. PAGE A13 
 LIONEL JEFFRIES, 83
 A British character actor, he excelled in rubber-faced comedic roles like Grandpa Potts in the musical fantasy adventure ''Chitty Chitty Bang Bang.'' He also directed several family films. PAGE A13 
 Business
 FEWER HOMEOWNERS LATE ON MORTGAGE IN 4TH QUARTER
 Even as the Obama administration stepped up efforts to aid homeowners facing foreclosure, new data indicated that the number of homeowners falling behind on their mortgage payments, which almost always rises with the start of winter, fell slightly. PAGE B1
 SWANKIER CARDS COMING
 After years of profiting from debt-ridden credit card holders, lenders are turning their attention to a potentially lucrative new source of fee income, the moneyed users of rewards programs who spend big and pay their bills on time. PAGE B1 
 STEELWORKERS ON REACTORS
 The United Steelworkers union has complained that a government-backed plan to build two nuclear reactors in Georgia will create jobs overseas that should go to American workers. PAGE B1 
 TOBACCO COMPANY RULING
 The Justice Department asked the Supreme Court to review a 2006 federal fraud racketeering conviction against the tobacco industry and to authorize the judge in the case to require companies to relinquish up to $280 billion in ''ill-gotten gains.'' PAGE B2 
 GENERICS FACE LONGER WAIT
 Americans are waiting nearly a year longer for government regulators to approve new lower-priced generic drugs than they did in 2005. The delays are caused by a growing backlog of applications at the Food and Drug Administration. PAGE B3 
 FLAT U.S. INFLATION REPORT
 Consumer prices were flat in January, the Labor Department said, easing concern that the Federal Reserve will have to raise interest rates to ward off inflation soon. PAGE B6 
 LENIENCY FOR A MADOFF AIDE
 Prosecutors expect to recommend ''extraordinary'' leniency for Frank DiPascali Jr., who has admitted being Bernard L. Madoff's crucial lieutenant in history's largest Ponzi scheme, according to documents made public in federal court in Manhattan. PAGE B6 
 Investors Push Shares Higher B6 
 Sports
 SURCHARGE TO AID CUBS HAS RIVALS AND M.L.B. UPSET
 The Chicago White Sox, Arizona Diamondbacks and Major League Baseball are opposing a bill in the Arizona House that would add an 8 percent ticket surcharge on all Cactus League games to help pay for the Cubs' new spring training facility in Mesa, Ariz. PAGE B14
 Arts
 MORE SCREEN TIME COMING FOR HEROES OF DC COMICS
 For years the superheroes of DC Comics have provided the foundation for Warner Brothers blockbusters. Usually these franchises are managed by business-side executives. But DC Comics has just handed the Batcave keys to a team of its top creative talents. PAGE C1
 STAR TREK MULTIPLAYER GAME
 Star Trek Online, a multiplayer game, aims to appeal to Trekkies looking for a mildly diverting, moderately attractive, cleverly episodic collection of simple combat encounters among spaceships and soldiers. A review by Seth Schiesel. PAGE C1 
 BIG SNAKES ON TV
 The news that Burmese pythons are loose and breeding in Florida has been known for a few years, but ''Invasion of the Giant Pythons'' -- which will be on PBS's ''Nature'' on Sunday -- makes clearer the extent of the problem. A review by Neil Genzlinger. PAGE C1 
 CSI: KING TUT'S EGYPT
 The Discovery Channel's ''King Tut Unwrapped'' presents some revelations about malaria in the royal family and other juicy tidbits. A review by Neil Genzlinger. PAGE C6 
 Oscar-Nominated Short Films C1 
 Saharan Rock at the Highline C3 
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A15
 CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (93%); NOBEL PRIZES (91%); DROUGHT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COUPS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); ARMIES (74%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); TALIBAN (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); POLITICS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); NATIONAL PARKS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (58%)

PERSON: MOHAMED ELBARADEI (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ROB BISHOP (50%); ALI KHAMENEI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%) UTAH, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EGYPT (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); NIGER (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



542 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Costs, Politics and Health Care in America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Criticism of Health Analysis That Was Hailed by Obama'' (news article, Feb. 18) leaves the impression that a medical opinion article published in The New England Journal of Medicine has called into question data used in my June 1, 2009, article in The New Yorker, ''The Cost Conundrum.'' That's not the case. None of the data I relied upon were the subject of the opinion. 
 Dartmouth researchers have maintained a database known as the Dartmouth Atlas analyzing Medicare cost information in multiple ways. My article investigated why these data show markedly different health care costs among communities, even ones with similar levels of illness and poverty. None of these data have been found erroneous. 
 There is vigorous debate about how to rate and improve hospital efficiency, however, and the opinion cited by The Times disputes a particular way that the Dartmouth Atlas proposes to do so. These ratings were not the subject of my article. 
 The fact remains that substantial variations persist in the cost of care for people of similar health depending on where they live -- and that clinicians with the best results often have lower, not higher, costs than average. 
 Atul Gawande Boston, Feb. 19, 2010
 The writer, a surgeon at Brigham and Women's Hospital and a staff writer for The New Yorker, is an associate professor, Harvard School of Public Health.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Let's Make a Deal,'' by Ross Douthat (column, Feb. 15):
 The growing hostility between Democrats and Republicans has saved America from an ill-conceived health care reform proposal that would have further sapped our resources during the current financial crisis.
 Just about everybody, regardless of his political affiliation, wants to reform health care. And one of the most important aspects of reform would provide insurance for millions of unprotected Americans.
 The original plan was supposed to afford health care to an additional 10 to 15 percent of the population and reduce the horrific impact of growing health care costs for all Americans. 
 The Democrats could not deliver on the latter but tried to move ahead with the former. Providing new services to a relatively small number of citizens for $1 trillion without doing anything for the remaining citizens is a nonstarter. I'm surprised that the proposal got as far as it did.
 Why would Americans want health care reform of any kind without a prospective reduction in health care costs? 
 Rising health care costs are already a serious threat to our economy and could someday affect the nation's ability to finance other entitlement programs.
 I say we start the process over and focus on cost reduction.
 Salvatore J. Bommarito New York, Feb. 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); WRITERS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); MEDICARE (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NORTHEAST USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010



543 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2015 words

HEADLINE: Will Airlines and Passengers Call a Truce?

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Sarah Maslin Nir contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WHEN weather forecasters predicted severe winter storms across the country in the last few weeks, airlines sent their customers a steady stream of e-mail and text messages, giving them a chance to change their itineraries ahead of the bad weather.
 Those who took advantage of the waivers had what has become a rare consolation in air travel: they received a service from the airlines without paying for it.
 In the space of 18 months, the concept of a plane ticket has been transformed from an all-inclusive purchase to a pay-as-you-go plan, turning the relationship between airlines and customers increasingly sour. 
 Every time a passenger books a ticket, it seems, major airlines have come up with more ways to charge for what once was free, like fees for reserving more desirable seats in the economy section of the plane. 
 David Stewart, a commodities trader in New York, was stunned to learn last week that he would have to pay $80 for an aisle seat he wanted on a Virgin Atlantic flight to London. Mr. Stewart, who is 6 foot 5, says he managed to cajole a gate agent into seating him there anyway. But ahead of and behind him, an entire section of aisle seats sat empty, apparently because other passengers declined to pay for them. ''It's bad customer service,'' says Mr. Stewart. ''It would be in their interests to do this better.'' 
 A spokeswoman for Virgin called the fee ''common practice within the industry.''
 Adding to travelers' frustration is that the long-cited reason for the switch to ''a la carte'' pricing -- record oil prices -- is no longer the driving force behind the changes. 
 Instead, airlines now cite their inability to make money, and consumers' resistance to higher ticket prices, as their reason for thinking up new ways to make customers pay extra. Over the last decade, they lost $55 billion, according to the International Air Transport Association, the airlines' global trade group. And the outlook for 2010 remains glum.
 ''We need to return to profitability, and we need to do so immediately,'' says Mark Bergsrud, the senior vice president for marketing at Continental Airlines, echoing what has become an industry mantra.
 He and some other airline executives offer another line of reasoning for the new environment: the me-too factor. Cellphone providers, sports arenas and theaters all add charges on top of the basic price of what they sell. Customers are used to it, so why shouldn't the airlines join in?
 ''It's something that's happening throughout business,'' Mr. Bergsrud says, ''and we're just slower getting there than many others.''
 Consumer advocates say the tactic will ultimately backfire. ''I frankly think the airlines are going to find out that these unbundling gimmicks do not work,'' says Paul Hudson, a lawyer and the executive director of the Aviation Consumer Action Project. ''People will reach a point and say, 'That's it.' ''
 There is disagreement about the practice, even in the industry. Robin Hayes, an executive vice president and chief commercial officer at JetBlue Airways, acknowledges that customers find the charges very annoying. ''On the whole, for the last 10 years, the industry has done a really rotten job of looking after passengers,'' he says.
 While many customers have accepted the changes, that's because ''there's very little choice,'' Mr. Hayes says. ''But the industry would be foolish'' to keep adding new charges for things passengers had become accustomed to receiving in the ticket price. JetBlue has added some fees, but not to check the first bag and it still serves some complimentary snacks. 
 Mr. Bergsrud, however, sees the airline industry becoming much more like the hotel industry, which has long charged different room rates based on location and amenities.
 ''It's like hotels with an ocean, a garden and a parking-lot view,'' Mr. Bergsrud says. 
 He theorizes that passengers having the toughest time accepting the changes are those who fly only a few times a year, while business travelers and those often on the road take the new atmosphere in stride -- in part because they earn enough miles to be exempt from many charges.
 Graham Howe, a banker in London who flies often, disagrees. ''It's taking advantage of the customer,'' he says. ''It all adds up.''
 Airlines say they are not unsympathetic. Daniel P. Garton, the executive vice president for marketing at American Airlines, says its surveys have reflected passengers' discomfort as the airlines take apart their tickets and recalculate what they want to include in the basic price.
 But the surveys show that more than half of customers understand why American has had to charge for things they used to expect free, a response Mr. Garton finds encouraging.
 ''We're still going through the hardest part of it, because we are unbundling what for the better part of 70 years has been a fixed-price menu,'' Mr. Garton says. ''You have to get through this phase so people can get used to it.''
 MAJOR airlines have been cutting back on frills for more than two decades, ever since American began reducing the number of olives it served in each salad. Hot meals were among the first to go on short flights, sacrificed in a wave of cuts after the September 2001 attacks.
 But lately, the pace of change has been faster, and made travel more complex, uncomfortable and aggravating. 
 ''It's horrible,'' says Matthew B. Stern, a professor of neurology at the University of Pennsylvania who can't avoid air travel because he lectures and consults around the world. But after his golf clubs were lost on a trip he took with his son, he refuses to check luggage. On longer trips, he sends bags ahead by courier, and for short trips he generally gets by with just one carry-on bag. 
 ''Traveling by plane nowadays is like low-class bus travel in the 1950s,'' he says.
 But back then, bus lines didn't charge to take a suitcase, or to select a specific seat. And analysts say the airlines have bungled the switch from all-inclusive to a la carte, irritating already cranky fliers even more. 
 ''How do you run an industry where people hate you?'' says Robert W. Mann, an airline analyst based in Port Washington, N.Y. ''What they don't realize is the long-term implications of the things that they are doing.''
 Mr. Mann says he believes that the dizzying array of new charges, coupled with security uncertainties and the weak economy, is deterring discretionary travelers -- those who once thought nothing of jumping on a plane for a weekend trip. 
 Airlines need those passengers to fill seats left vacant after so many companies cut back on business travel. 
 They include Sanjay Lad, a dentist who lives in Los Angeles. In the past, he says, he regularly took last-minute flights to nearby cities like Las Vegas for a few days of relaxation. But now he might drive to avoid paying fees, like the $50 he paid last month to check his skis on a round-trip Delta flight to Salt Lake City.
 ''A lot of us understand the crisis the industry is in,'' says Mr. Lad, ''but I'd consider whether it's financially feasible before I just jump on a plane.''
 Still, passengers cannot escape some responsibility for the airlines' tactics, says Tim Winship, editor of SmarterTravel.com. 
 ''We have to look at ourselves in the mirror as consumers, and acknowledge the extent to which our own price sensitivity has contributed to the way things are,'' he says.
 That sensitivity has been made clear during the recession. After raising fares 15 times in 2008 to offset record fuel costs, the airlines were able to raise prices only four times in 2009, when the slow economy caused air travel to drop by about 25 percent. From July to September, the most recent quarter for which information is available, the average round-trip domestic fare was $306, down from $358 in the period a year earlier, according to the government's Bureau of Transportation Statistics. 
 So far this year, airlines have twice tried unsuccessfully to raise average prices. The first was an attempted $16 round-trip increase in January by American, Continental, Delta and United, and a $10 round-trip increase that many carriers tried this month. But low-fare airlines resisted, and prices stayed higher for only a few days before the airlines retreated. 
 ''They're testing the price elasticity of consumers, and consumers are saying, 'We're very sensitive to price,' '' says Rick Seaney, chief executive of FareCompare.com, which tracks airfares. ''Consumers are just expecting weekly discounts. One dollar matters nowadays.''
 By contrast, the airlines have had a much easier time adding and increasing fees. The price to check a bag rose 50 percent during the last year, when they collectively took in $3.8 billion in baggage and other fees.
 It now costs an average of $25 to check a first bag on many major airlines, though discounts are available if booked ahead online. The airlines have also added surcharges to travel during the most popular times, like the week between Christmas and New Year's.
 But the fees are a fraction of what the carriers could collect if they could charge more for tickets. ''Not everybody eats. Not everybody drinks. Not everybody checks a bag,'' says Mr. Bergsrud. 
 Though he did not want to pay extra for his seat, Mr. Stewart, the commodities trader, says he'd rather see airlines charge for options like a pillow or a blanket than raise ticket prices so that every passenger could receive one. ''It's better to charge the 10 people who want them,'' he says. 
 Still, there is some evidence that fewer fees help attract passengers. Southwest Airlines, the largest low-fare airline in the United States, gained a point of market share in 2009 and attributed the increase to its decision not to charge for checking a first or second bag. 
 Its chief executive, Gary C. Kelly, says his competitors are damaging their relationship with customers by rolling out so many changes so quickly.
 ''They view customers as just numbers on a list, as opposed to thinking about how they can best meet their needs,'' says Mr. Kelly. ''It's kind of silly to say, 'We want to win more passengers' but not let them take a bag when they travel.''
 Mr. Kelly, whose airline earned money in 2009, a year when the rest of the industry collectively lost about $5 billion, agrees that many carriers will not survive if they are not profitable. ''That's a given,'' he says. ''But you can decide whether to take care of people and treat customers like guests in your home.'' 
 Mr. Hayes at JetBlue agrees that attitude has to be fundamental. ''You have to build a culture around wanting to serve customers,'' he says. 
 But neither airline has escaped criticism this past year. Southwest, which for a time embraced ''Freedom From Fees'' as its advertising slogan, dropped that in favor of ''Bags Fly Free'' after it began charging for extras like securing a place in the first boarding group, which costs $10.
 JetBlue has also upset some passengers, including Mr. Mann, the analyst, for charging to change a reservation and to select seats with extra legroom. 
 But the fees allow customers to ''choose what they want,'' says Mr. Hayes.
 AMID the anger about taking apart a plane ticket, analysts are beginning to wonder if airlines might be better off ''rebundling'' their tickets, although that isn't likely to happen soon.
 Until the airlines change their minds, analysts and passengers say openness by the airlines could offset some of travelers' irritation. Beverley Cochran, a nurse from London who works in New York, says she understands the airlines' predicament.
 ''They have to figure out how to make money,'' Ms. Cochran says. ''I'm a realist. I know they have to do this, or put the prices up. As long as it's not underhanded, I'm O.K. with it.''
 But she, and Mr. Lad from Los Angeles, put limits on what they are willing to accept. For Ms. Cochran, it would be paying for water or pretzels. To Mr. Lad, the line is drawn at charging for carry-on bags. 
 ''For a lot of people, that would be a deal breaker,'' he says. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about airline fees misstated the amount that major airlines collected in baggage and other fees last year. It was $3.8 billion, not million. The article also misstated Virgin Atlantic's policy on fees for choosing specific seats. While a fee applies to exit-row seats, the airline says it does not charge for other aisle seats.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 2008, American Airlines and others began charging to check bags. Carriers have kept adding fees, whether for food or services. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)
 Eager to sell the snacks that were once free, American Airlines accepts credit cards on flights. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMERICAN AIRLINES)(BU8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEO CULLUM/CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS/CARTOON BANK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); WEATHER (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (89%); AIR FARES (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); TICKET SALES (75%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (73%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); CONSUMER LAW (62%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (53%)

COMPANY: VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (90%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (52%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2010



544 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Educator to the World

 BODY:
I ATTENDED a one-room schoolhouse in rural Minnesota in the 1950s. My grandparents, who were German immigrants, had no formal schooling, and my father had only an eighth-grade education. Education was the path up for my brother, sister and me. My father excused me from the dairy chores on our farm so I could concentrate on school.
My greatest influence, after my parents, was my teacher Mrs. Carlson. There were 15 kids in six grades in my school. My class, with four students, was the largest. 
 I still remember pulling ''The Last of the Mohicans'' off the shelf in our tiny library when I was in fifth grade. That same year, my birdhouses won an award at a county fair. 
 When I was 10, my father lent me to a neighbor to thresh wheat. I was a bargain because I came with a tractor. The neighbor paid me a dollar a day. 
 At Gustavus Adolphus College in Minnesota, I started out majoring in accounting, switched to economics and then to English, German and history. After getting a Ph.D. in American civilization at Brown University, I became a Fulbright lecturer at the University of Kiel in Germany. I wasn't sure I had chosen the right path, even after I became a professor of English and chairman of the American studies program at the University of Southern California. 
 Yet, over time, I found I was fundamentally interested in the courses and I liked that I was able to combine academics with my managerial skills. It also allowed me the time to travel all over the world with my family.
 I was president and C.E.O. of California Lutheran University for 14 years before the Education Development Center recruited me in 2006. E.D.C. is a nonprofit organization that develops programs to solve economic, health and education problems in the United States and around the world. 
 About a year ago, I sat in on one of our interactive radio lessons in Mali in West Africa. Students and teachers learned basic health information like what inoculations are and when you get them, and what a nurse does. We take this knowledge for granted in the United States, but it was significant to the teacher and news to the students.
 We also advise the Mali government on education. Last year, we had the senior staff of its education ministry visit several one-room schools in the United States. That type of schooling may seem a nostalgic notion to us, but it's avant-garde to many countries in which we work. It's a better alignment of their resources and demographics.
 There aren't too many things that keep me awake at night, whether strategic planning or budget or technology issues. But we have an overriding concern for the safety of our employees around the world. E.D.C. has programs in 35 countries, including Somalia, Pakistan and Yemen.
 We live in a hazardous world. My experiences with volatile international settings include my two Fulbright fellowships. The first, in Germany in 1968, coincided with the Soviet invasion of Prague and the student riots from Paris to Berlin to Kiel, where I was teaching. My seminar was shut down by the Students for a Democratic Society. 
 When I traveled to India with my wife and children in the fall of 1984 to the American Studies Research Center in Hyderabad, a bomb exploded at the international arrivals terminal at Madras airport a few weeks before we landed there. Soon after, I had to evacuate the center during the riots following the assassination of Indira Gandhi. I learned to appreciate the importance of cultural diplomacy and development work. E.D.C., with its domestic and international projects, is a good fit for me. 
 LUTHER S. LUEDTKE
 President and chief executive, the Education Development Center, Newton, Mass.
 AGE 66
 HONORARY TITLE Village chief of Nyankomase, Ghana
 HOBBY Fixing things

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LUTHER S. LUEDTKE (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK OSTOW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (64%)

COMPANY: EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT CENTER INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (73%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MALI (92%); GERMANY (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2010



545 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: To Be Topical In a Time Out of Joint

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY and CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
THE theater critics for The New York Times, Ben Brantley and Charles Isherwood, looked at the spring season's offerings and found a number of productions that addressed pressing issues. Are political shows making a comeback? They discussed this and other aspects in an e-mail conversation excerpted below. For the full discussion, see nytimes.com/theater. 
 BEN BRANTLEY Allow me to throw a topic before us, Charles -- namely, the topical in theater. This season we have a hefty number of plays and even musicals dealing with subjects that might be said to have been ripped from the op-ed pages (although slightly yellowed pages). Most notably Broadway will be seeing a Ziegfeld-style re-enactment of the most flamboyant financial scandal in recent years in Lucy Prebble's ''Enron''; American youth is portrayed in a state of suicidal crisis (although that's what being young is, isn't it?) in the Green Day musical ''American Idiot''; and the clash of homosexuality and Christianity is explored in Geoffrey Nauffts's ''Next Fall.'' Off Broadway we're seeing a new play about abortion from Jonathan Reynolds that (for a change) takes the conservative position, as well as re-examinations of fraught chapters in American history like the trial of the Scottsboro Boys, the making public of the Pentagon Papers and the populist presidency of Andrew Jackson.
 What I'm wondering is if it's possible for the theater to be truly topical in a culture of instant satire, when this morning's headlines have by midday been digested and regurgitated all over the Web and television by pundits and comics.
 CHARLES ISHERWOOD We do seem to consume a lot of instant topical satire these days, something that used to be fodder for revues and even for full-length Gershwin musicals. And I think the theatrical machinery works today more slowly than it did in the 1930s, when the theater was a more bustling and robust industry. By the time a ''topical'' play has been developed and workshopped and tried out in a regional theater, say, the point it addresses may have gone stale. This may be why there are not a whole lot of prominent American playwrights writing dramas about, for example, the insane political stagnation in Washington these days. (Any takers?) 
 BRANTLEY I think of David Mamet's ''Race,'' which opened earlier this season on Broadway and was clearly intended to shake audiences out of their cozy perceptions of blacks and whites in comfortable co-existence. Yet when I saw it, Mamet's literary shock tactics seemed as old as, well, a Richard Pryor routine, a sensibility that's been reworked more imaginatively by current stand-up artists like Chris Rock. 
 ISHERWOOD Only a playwright of David Mamet's stature can be guaranteed a quick route to production. And Mamet does seem to have taken up the mantle of becoming America's heavy-thinking, topic-addressing playwright these days. But I'm not sure he's really an idea man; his great strengths are more tied to language and character. Both ''November'' and ''Race'' are populated by two-dimensional people being manipulated by the playwright to score points or get laughs. 
 BRANTLEY So I was trying to think of what's required of a play that wants to create a genuine, unsettling dialogue about immediate subjects. This is not, after all, a time when most people look to theater as a challenging forum of dangerous ideas. 
 ISHERWOOD In a recent Sunday piece, the Times film critic A. O. Scott addressed the issue of Iraq-theme movies -- most of which haven't done much business -- and I think there's an argument to be made that there isn't a wide audience for theater that simply apes what journalism can do better and more immediately. Or at least that is perceived as doing what journalism does, rightly or wrongly. There's no question that writing a play that addresses a social problem or a political controversy is a tricky business. Nobody wants to go to the theater to see a staged op-ed piece or a lecture. 
 BRANTLEY Strangely, the political works that have most moved and disturbed me in recent years -- and by purely theatrical means -- have been British imports: Sarah Kane's brutal ''Blasted,'' which forced you to imagine how ordinary people could commit the atrocities that were a daily part of conflicts like the Bosnian wars, and the National Theater of Scotland's ''Black Watch,'' which made you feel you had crawled into the skins of a regiment of Scottish soldiers in Iraq. 
 ISHERWOOD Well I have to confess a mild sense of shame that Broadway has to import a play about the Enron scandal. It's dispiriting enough that we're importing mediocre revivals of American musicals, for God's sake. But the British do seem to have a more fertile -- and more inventive -- approach to making theater that both addresses a political or social issue and succeeds as a work of the imagination. I also thought ''Blasted'' and ''Black Watch'' were excellent. The other major example that springs to mind is Caryl Churchill -- also British! -- who has written all sorts of plays that speak to social, sometimes topical issues but do so in ways that ensure that the plays won't die when interest in the subject pales. 
 BRANTLEY How do you feel about the more conventional, well-made narrative topical dramas of recent years, like ''Ruined'' and ''The Overwhelming''? 
 ISHERWOOD ''Ruined'' succeeded in dramatizing a tough subject in a way that audiences really warmed to -- perhaps in part because of its conventional structure and even some slightly sentimental touches. The strictly journalistic plays like ''The Exonerated'' and ''Guantanamo: Honor Bound to Defend Freedom'' are certainly a worthy and usually very moving subset of political theater. But they can feel medicinal. For me one of the most perceptive -- and entertaining -- plays about current events to be seen on Broadway in the past few seasons was, oddly enough, Horton Foote's ''Dividing the Estate,'' which was written in the 1980s but seemed to be speaking to the current American moment, the sense of entitlement and heedless self-interest that were among the causes of the economic collapse. Which for me points to the idea that the most effectively ''topical'' plays are the ones that address things obliquely. I think both ''American Idiot'' and ''Next Fall'' are examples of this. 
 BRANTLEY A good point about ''Dividing the Estate,'' Charles. And, curiously, even ''The Orphans' Home Cycle,'' now at the Signature Theater, with its very particular portrait of one man's sense of homelessness through years of war and epidemic, speaks to American insecurities of the moment, though Foote's nine interrelated plays take place a century ago. 
 And the Freres Corbusier's ''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson,'' which opens this spring (and which I saw in a concert version last year), parses the charisma of a 19th-century president to explore the ineffable personality factor in American politics (and uses emo music, no less, to do it).
 In other words, relevance doesn't necessarily require literal topicality. The fundamental things do indeed apply as time goes by; it's just a question of presenting them with a theatrical force and clarity that allows the audience in. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top, a scene from Green Day's ''American Idiot,'' coming to Broadway in the spring
Marin Ireland and Reed Birney in Sarah Kane's ''Blasted''
and the National Theater of Scotland's ''Black Watch.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COURTESY OF MELLOPIX.COM
SIMON KANE
 PAVEL ANTONOV) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); SCANDALS (69%); HISTORY (65%); WRITERS (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); RELIGION (52%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010



546 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Snowbirds Come Home to Roost

BYLINE: By TOBy BARLOW. 
Toby Barlow is the author of ''Sharp Teeth.''

DATELINE: Detroit 

 BODY:
 RON AND PATTY COOLEY met and fell in love 42 years ago as students at Eastern Michigan University. After a stint at Ford in the early '70s, they left Detroit behind, taking over her family's modest real estate business upstate. The company prospered: for 30 years the two worked together, helping to finance, build and sell more than 1,000 homes.
 With their two sons grown, Ron and Patty sold the business and semi-retired down to Naples, Fla. Ron took up golf, sometimes seven days a week, occasionally 36 holes in a day. Patty gardened. Their lives in the Sunshine State were relaxed and tranquil, the sort of serene ending that retirement brochures promise to us all. But, unsurprisingly, the collapse of the housing market had a serious impact on a couple with a nest egg tied up in real estate. 
 Ron and Patty looked around and did the math. Florida's economy seemed to be declining even more steeply than the Motor City's. In Detroit, they had roots, their sons had moved into the city and started a barbecue restaurant, grandchildren had arrived. So, weighing their options, they came back. They moved into a downtown loft, just a few blocks from the empty lot where Tiger Stadium once stood.
 I first encountered Ron and Patty at an early morning fund-raiser for a neighborhood charity. Talking to them, I found that just like other new arrivals -- the artists and recent college graduates coming here from other towns -- they spoke of Detroit's potential with an almost exalted optimism. Instead of depressing or slowing them down, the move has been a thrilling one and they shared examples of how exhilarating their life is downtown.
 Being at the center of things means they can walk to the Avalon bakery on Saturday mornings and to the new Comerica Park for baseball games in the spring. Instead of endless golf, they now go to events like the fund-raiser where we met or lectures on design and sustainable development. 
 Talking about Florida, Ron sounds like someone who made it onto the lifeboat in the nick of time. Yes, they had to sell their home down there at a loss, but a former neighbor in Naples recently sold a similar house for less than half of what the Cooleys got. Ron estimates that with the nation's battered 401(k) accounts, it could take decades before Florida returns to any sort of substantial growth.
 Meanwhile, Patty and Ron are helping their sons expand their restaurant to a new location. Patty is involved in the local school system's literacy program. Ron enjoys walking down the street to spend time with his grandchildren, the kind of time that, in his ambitious, younger days, he didn't get to have with his own boys. 
 In the nation's shared imagination, Detroit continues to be worse than a punch line -- it's an apocalyptic wasteland teetering right at the edge of the end of the world. When people hear that I live downtown, they ask, ''Where do you get your groceries?'' and ''Where do you get your dry cleaning done?'' and when I answer ''Well, at the grocery store and the dry cleaners,'' they simply look confused. In fact, few can imagine living a life here.
 The truth is that my Detroit -- and Ron and Patty's Detroit -- might no longer be a city where dreams come true the way they once did. But this story still demonstrates some important things: how lives and businesses can thrive here, how rewarding it can be to have family close and, at the very least, how nice it is that we're not in Florida.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LILLI CARRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); US 401K PLANS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); RELOCATIONS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); BASEBALL (65%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (50%)

COMPANY: COMERICA INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EASTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); NAPLES, FL, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



547 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: The Return of the Ski Bum

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BINDLEY

 BODY:
Aspen, Colo.
 AMONG the skiers hitting the fabled slopes of Aspen this winter, you will find an investment banker, an information technology specialist and an international marketing manager.
 But since the recession hit, they have all been working under slightly different titles: ski school lesson salesman, chairlift monitor and waitress at a vegetarian restaurant, respectively.
 ''If you're just looking and living on unemployment and you're just depressed, you should definitely move out here,'' said Blake Robinson, 28, the former information technology worker, who was laid off by Netflix in Portland, Ore. 
 Mr. Robinson has an undergraduate degree in international business and an M.B.A., but instead of job hunting he is working as a chairlift gate monitor for the Aspen Skiing Company. In exchange, he gets $12.25 an hour, a share in a rent-subsidized two-bedroom apartment he likened to a college dorm room and, most important, an unlimited ski pass. 
 ''I've skied 77 days in a row,'' he said earlier this month, beaming with pride as he monitored the turnstiles to the Alpine Springs chairlift at Snowmass, one of the resort's four mountains. 
 Meet the newest wave of ski bums: stoked to be in the mountains, uncertain about the future, probably overqualified and, once again, American.
 For well over a decade, many of the people operating lifts and ladling soup into bread bowls at restaurants in Aspen and other resorts had come from Australia, Europe and South America. In the United States, the popularity of moving to a ski town after college or between jobs had waned. 
 ''As the economy continued to heat up, it became more and more difficult to attract domestic employees,'' said Jim Laing, vice president of human resources for the Aspen Skiing Company. ''They weren't even graduating before they'd get jobs, so the era of taking a season off before you got into the real world ended, at least temporarily.'' 
 But high unemployment in the United States, coupled with policy changes that make it more difficult for seasonal foreign workers to get visas, has brought about the return of the American ski bum. Recent college graduates, laid-off young professionals and resort residents who have also lost jobs have jumped at the opportunity to bus tables, park cars and sell lift tickets here and in other Rocky Mountain resorts.
 As much as 26 percent of the Aspen Skiing Company's seasonal staff has been from outside the United States in previous seasons, but only 15 percent are this winter, according to Mr. Laing. 
 Jackson Hole Mountain Resort in Wyoming had 200 employees from overseas two years ago, but there are only six this season, said Scott Horn, chief administration officer for Jackson Hole, adding that there was a significant increase in the number of recent college graduates who work there. 
 ''With the economy, they can't find any jobs in a cubicle making $50,000 a year, so they say, 'O.K., I'm going to a ski resort,' '' he said. 
 Vail Ski Resort in Colorado saw the same shift, hiring 60 percent fewer foreign workers this season compared to two years ago. ''The trends were largely based on the pond we were fishing in,'' said Mark R. Gasta, head of human resources for the Vail Resorts Management Company, who noted that the company has increased its recruiting at colleges.
 Gwyn Gordon Knowlton, an owner of Gwyn's High Alpine restaurant on Snowmass, said that last year 45 percent of her employees were foreigners, compared with only 8 percent this year. ''I was getting all these calls from the friends and brothers and sisters from past employees all over the country,'' said Ms. Gordon Knowlton, now in her 30th year of business. ''When unemployment is up, people get frustrated, and they're saying: 'Wait a second, I'm just spinning my wheels. I might as well start researching what I want to do but have fun, get to ski and enjoy myself rather than just living in the city being miserable, not having a job and not knowing what to do.' ''
 Indeed, the prospect of running out of money in a city or moving back home with parents has prompted 20-somethings from around the country to ride out the recession in Aspen -- if not exactly enjoying the luxuries the town offers tourists, at least partaking of the scenery and cheap skiing.
 Jon Hight, 24, who is from Roslyn, N.Y., and graduated from Syracuse University in 2008, had hoped to convert a six-month internship with Major League Baseball last summer into full-time employment. Instead, he was confronted with a hiring freeze. He moved to Aspen and took two jobs, one monitoring chairlifts and the other in the ticketing office. Lane Johnson, 23, who graduated from College of Charleston last May, had been accepted at law school but deferred his admission. ''Everyone I knew who passed the bar couldn't find a job,'' he said. He now works as a valet at the Viceroy hotel at the base of Snowmass and teaches ski school. 
 Mike Foley, 28, who also works as a valet at the Viceroy, grew up in the Denver area. He had always hoped to spend at least one season in a ski town but never felt it was the right time, until he lost his job as an audiovisual technician a year ago. 
 After growing bored with sleeping until noon, playing video games and working at electrical jobs he didn't care for, Mr. Foley decided it was time to move to Aspen. ''I don't do desk jobs; I don't wear suits,'' he said. ''I would just rather have a better lifestyle.'' 
 Some newcomers weren't pursuing the ski bum dream -- because they had never had the dream. Nate McDonald, 31, said he went into an immediate panic when he lost his teaching job at Port St. Joe High School in Florida. But after four months of living in Aspen, working at D & E Ski and Snowboard Shop and waiting tables at Hickory House Ribs, he's decided that being laid off was the best thing that ever happened to him. 
 ''I would have taught and coached for the rest of my life until the time I retired,'' Mr. McDonald said. ''Now I can come out here and play around for two or three years.'' 
 Some transplants, however, are much more ambivalent about their latest career detour. Rachel Geddes, 26, moved to Snowmass in 2008 after working for the American Red Cross in a white-collar job. ''My mom is a vice president of a company, my dad's a surgeon and I'm working in a ticketing office,'' she said, acknowledging that the embarrassment was tough to get over at first. 
 Other downsides include going back to an hourly wage. 
 ''I can't go to Neiman's and buy a new pair of shoes; like that's not going to happen anymore,'' she said. ''A lot of people say my life is better than vacation, and in a lot of ways it is. But in a lot of ways, it's just not.'' 
 Between the quaint streets of Aspen and its spectacular mountains, some might wonder what there could be to complain about. But for starters, there is the cost of living. Those streets are lined with luxury stores like Louis Vuitton and Prada, and for half of the 1,000 seasonal employees whose housing isn't subsidized by the ski company, monthly rents can run to $800. 
 ''This is a real tough place to be any kind of bum,'' said Mike Danziger, 31. ''It's a very expensive place to live.'' Mr. Danziger spent two years as an associate analyst in equity research for a boutique investment bank in San Francisco before he was laid off in May 2008. 
 These days? He sells private ski school lessons. Now in his second season at Snowmass, Mr. Danziger is more than ready to get back to a finance job and is actively looking. ''I mean, I like it here, but this isn't the career path where I'd like to go,'' he said.
 Beth Fults is also dealing with a stalled career. An architect, she was able to choose between multiple job offers in her field when she moved to Aspen year round six years ago. But the demand for the multimillion-dollar homes she was designing is no longer.
 ''All the projects just stopped coming,'' said Ms. Fults, 38, who was laid off last December and is now working two jobs, waiting tables at Hickory House Ribs and working at Four Mountain Sports, a retail and rental shop. ''I thought maybe just a year it'll last, but it's kind of not getting any better so this might be my career for a while.'' 
 Amy Faulconer, 28, was laid off from the international marketing department of National Geographic magazine in October. ''I'm waitressing at a vegetarian restaurant,'' she said, unable to get through that statement without laughing. ''Try that one on for size.'' 
 The other night was so slow at the Escape bistro where she works that Ms. Faulconer took home only $7 in tips. But she appreciates that at least she has a mountain view, something she lacked at her office job at National Geographic. 
 She would like to eventually work in microfinance abroad, but like many of the newest ski bums, she is unsure what will happen in April, after the lifts close.
 ''Can I say there is no plan?'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MOUNTAINS AS REFUGE: Blake Robinson, who has an M.B.A. and worked in information technology, now monitors ski lifts at Snowmass in Colorado. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
OFF-COURSE CAREERS: Amy Faulconer, above, lost her job as a magazine marketing manager and now waits tables in Aspen. Blake Robinson, below left, skis every chance he gets. Mike Foley, below right, a former audiovisual technician, believes the mountains offer a better lifestyle. (PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE AND BELOW LEFT BY ZACH MAHONE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING FACILITIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (89%); RESORTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (75%); VEGETARIAN RESTAURANTS (71%); MEAT FREE DIETS (71%); HUMAN RESOURCES (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (68%)

COMPANY: ASPEN SKIING CO LLC (72%); JACKSON HOLE MOUNTAIN RESORT (60%); NETFLIX INC (57%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (72%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



548 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: To Be Topical in a Time Out of Joint

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY and CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
THE theater critics for The New York Times, Ben Brantley and Charles Isherwood, looked at the spring season's offerings and found a number of productions that addressed pressing issues. Are political shows making a comeback? They discussed this and other aspects in an e-mail conversation excerpted below. 
 BEN BRANTLEY Allow me to throw a topic before us, Charles -- namely, the topical in theater. This season we have a hefty number of plays and even musicals dealing with subjects that might be said to have been ripped from the op-ed pages (although slightly yellowed pages). Most notably Broadway will be seeing a Ziegfeld-style re-enactment of the most flamboyant financial scandal in recent years in Lucy Prebble's ''Enron''; American youth is portrayed in a state of suicidal crisis (although that's what being young is, isn't it?) in the Green Day musical ''American Idiot''; and the clash of homosexuality and Christianity is explored in Geoffrey Nauffts's ''Next Fall.'' Off Broadway we're seeing a new play about abortion from Jonathan Reynolds that (for a change) takes the conservative position, as well as re-examinations of fraught chapters in American history like the trial of the Scottsboro Boys, the making public of the Pentagon Papers and the populist presidency of Andrew Jackson.
 What I'm wondering is if it's possible for the theater to be truly topical in a culture of instant satire, when this morning's headlines have by midday been digested and regurgitated all over the Web and television by pundits and comics.
 CHARLES ISHERWOOD We do seem to consume a lot of instant topical satire these days, something that used to be fodder for revues and even for full-length Gershwin musicals. And I think the theatrical machinery works today more slowly than it did in the 1930s, when the theater was a more bustling and robust industry. By the time a ''topical'' play has been developed and workshopped and tried out in a regional theater, say, the point it addresses may have gone stale. This may be why there are not a whole lot of prominent American playwrights writing dramas about, for example, the insane political stagnation in Washington these days. (Any takers?) 
 BRANTLEY I think of David Mamet's ''Race,'' which opened earlier this season on Broadway and was clearly intended to shake audiences out of their cozy perceptions of blacks and whites in comfortable co-existence. Yet when I saw it, Mamet's literary shock tactics seemed as old as, well, a Richard Pryor routine, a sensibility that's been reworked more imaginatively by current stand-up artists like Chris Rock. 
 ISHERWOOD Only a playwright of David Mamet's stature can be guaranteed a quick route to production and a podium on Broadway. And Mamet does seem to have taken up the mantle of becoming America's heavy-thinking, topic-addressing playwright these days. But I'm not sure he's really an idea man; his great strengths are more tied to language and character. Both ''November'' and ''Race'' are populated by two-dimensional people being manipulated by the playwright to score points or get laughs or, as you say, get the audience gasping at Mr. Mamet's own audacity. 
 BRANTLEY So I was trying to think of what's required of a play that wants to create a genuine, unsettling dialogue about immediate subjects. This is not, after all, a time when most people look to theater as a challenging forum of dangerous ideas, though in the past theater has thrived in eras of public mistrust of authority. (Imagine being a playgoer in the 1930s, when the Group Theater and the Mercury Theater were practically causing riots, or in the 1960s, when Living Theater performances were being closed down by the police.) 
 ISHERWOOD In a recent Sunday piece, the Times film critic A. O. Scott addressed the issue of Iraq-theme movies -- most of which haven't done much business -- and I think there's an argument to be made that there isn't a wide audience for theater that simply apes what journalism can do better and more immediately. Or at least that is perceived as doing what journalism does, rightly or wrongly. There's no question that writing a play that addresses a social problem or a political controversy is a tricky business. Nobody wants to go to the theater to see a staged op-ed piece or a lecture. 
 BRANTLEY Strangely, the political works that have most moved and disturbed me in recent years -- and by purely theatrical means -- have been British imports: Sarah Kane's brutal ''Blasted,'' which forced you to imagine how ordinary people could commit the atrocities that were a daily part of conflicts like the Bosnian wars, and the National Theater of Scotland's ''Black Watch,'' which made you feel you had crawled into the skins of a regiment of Scottish soldiers in Iraq. 
 ISHERWOOD Well I have to confess a mild sense of shame that Broadway has to import a play about the Enron scandal. It's dispiriting enough that we're importing mediocre revivals of American musicals, for God's sake. But the British do seem to have a more fertile -- and more inventive -- approach to making theater that both addresses a political or social issue and succeeds as a work of the imagination. I also thought ''Blasted'' and ''Black Watch'' were excellent. The other major example that springs to mind is Caryl Churchill -- also British! -- who has written all sorts of plays that speak to social, sometimes topical issues but do so in ways that ensure that the plays won't die when interest in the subject pales. 
 BRANTLEY How do you feel about the more conventional, well-made narrative topical dramas of recent years, like ''Ruined'' and ''The Overwhelming''? And the documentary dramas that have been inspired by the war in Iraq?
 ISHERWOOD ''Ruined'' succeeded in dramatizing a tough subject in a way that audiences really warmed to -- perhaps in part because of its conventional structure and even some slightly sentimental touches. The strictly journalistic plays like ''The Exonerated'' and ''Guantanamo: Honor Bound to Defend Freedom'' are certainly a worthy and usually very moving subset of political theater. But they can feel medicinal and are very often seen by a small subset of liberally inclined theatergoers. For me one of the most perceptive -- and entertaining -- plays about current events to be seen on Broadway in the past few seasons was, oddly enough, Horton Foote's ''Dividing the Estate,'' which was written in the 1980s but seemed to be speaking to the current American moment, the sense of entitlement and heedless self-interest that were among the causes of the economic collapse. Which for me points to the idea that the most effectively ''topical'' plays are the ones that address things obliquely. I think both ''American Idiot'' and ''Next Fall'' are examples of this, and I look forward to seeing both of them again this spring. 
 BRANTLEY A good point about ''Dividing the Estate,'' Charles. And, curiously, even ''The Orphans' Home Cycle,'' now at the Signature Theater, with its very particular portrait of one man's sense of homelessness through years of war and epidemic, speaks to American insecurities of the moment, though Foote's nine interrelated plays take place a century ago. And I was struck when I saw the Donmar Warehouse production of ''Mary Stuart'' last year by how abidingly relevant the play was as a comment on politicians' imprisonment by the images they project and are projected upon them. 
 And the Freres Corbusier's ''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson,'' which opens this spring (and which I saw in a concert version last year), parses the charisma of a 19th-century president to explore the ineffable personality factor in American politics (and uses emo music, no less, to do it).
 In other words, relevance doesn't necessarily require literal topicality. The fundamental things do indeed apply as time goes by; it's just a question of presenting them with a theatrical force and clarity that allows the audience in.

GRAPHIC: From top, a scene from Green Day's ''American Idiot,'' coming to Broadway in the spring
Marin Ireland and Reed Birney in Sarah Kane's ''Blasted''
 and the National Theater of Scotland's ''Black Watch.'' PAVEL ANTONOV 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); SCANDALS (69%); HISTORY (65%); WRITERS (64%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%); RELIGION (52%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: CHRIS ROCK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



549 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Sites That Do Your Fare Digging

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
HOW do you find the best airfare? Click. Click again. Click again. Then click some more.
 According to figures compiled by the Web analytics firm Compete.com, travelers made an average of 21 visits to various travel Web sites last year before finally booking a trip. 
 That's a lot of time surfing the Web -- and a possible business opportunity for travel sites that can make that search faster and easier. Now, several ''meta-search'' firms are offering to do just that, each promising that their users will either find the cheapest fares or spend less time searching for them.
 These meta-search sites -- among them, Kayak.com, Fly.com and Momondo.com -- don't sell plane tickets or control bookings at hotel rooms. Rather, they search hundreds of travel sites at once in a quest to identify the best rates and then send consumers to book directly at the seller's site. 
 All have recently been raising their profiles -- Kayak with a new TV ad campaign that trumpets its supposed primacy (''Search One and Done''); Momondo, a Danish company, with a site that boasts it is ''the best flight search engine'' on the Web; and Fly, with one-on-one sessions with reporters from The New York Times and other publications asserting that its fares either match or better Kayak's in ''46 of 50 top markets.'' (The latter claim draws this response from one of Kayak's founders, Paul English: ''Ridiculous.'')
 Kayak, Fly and another meta-search site, Bing Travel from Microsoft, all work with ITA Software for certain search capabilities and access to fares. ITA pulls fares from the Airline Tariff Publishing Company, which collects prices from 500 airlines worldwide. That means many of the meta-search sites are dipping into the same pool of data. 
 But there are decided differences. 
 On a recent search of Kayak, for a flight from New York to Los Angeles in February, I was quoted rates starting at $299 round trip on Continental. When I refined my search for nonstop flights departing before 11 a.m., the cheapest rate increased to $389. To find the true cost of the trip, I clicked on ''add baggage fees'' and input the number of bags I might check (one). Kayak automatically recalculated the fares. Checking one bag each way would bring the total to $425. Clicking on ''details'' showed the number of seats left on the flight: nine. 
 Having researched the fare on Kayak, I visited Bing Travel next. It offered the same search results minus the baggage calculator. But it had its own nifty feature, the Price Predictor, which uses algorithms to determine whether a fare is likely to rise or fall during the next seven days, which can help when trying to decide whether to buy now or wait for a better rate. Predictions are offered between 75 top domestic markets and from the United States to some major European destinations. For the New York to Los Angeles flight, the site showed a red arrow pointing down and recommended waiting (''fares dropping $50+''). Clicking on ''details'' for the prediction offered this caution: ''Price drops are sporadic and 50 percent of them do not last longer than 48 hours. Consider your risk tolerance.''
 But it was Fly.com that found the best bargain for a morning nonstop: $362 on American, departing from Kennedy and returning to Newark. Clicking ''summary'' offered a side-by-side snapshot of economy and business or first-class seats in case I wanted an upgrade. But with rates for first class more than $1,000 extra, I preferred to stay in coach. 
 Fly.com says it searches Travelocity, Hotwire and Priceline on one screen so you don't have to open a series of windows on your computer and toggle back and forth as you do with Kayak or Bing Travel for those sites. (Kayak and Bing allow users to search those sites in a separate window by clicking a box at the start of their search or on the flight results page.) Fly.com also pulls fares from international consolidators, like Vayama.com and Airfare.com, which negotiate contracts with the airlines to sell tickets below the lowest published price. A recent search for flights in early March from Los Angeles to Sydney, for example, offered a round-trip nonstop through Vayama.com on Qantas for $1,087. The cheapest nonstop offered by Kayak was $1,139 on Delta. (Kayak allows users to search Vayama and Airfare.com in separate windows by clicking a box at the start of the search.) 
 By aggregating fares from these other sources, Brian Clark, general manager of Fly.com, says, the site often finds a lower fare, especially on international routes. In its own comparison with Kayak, Fly.com said it found a lower fare 16 times and matched Kayak's price 6 times in a search for international flights across 25 routes.
 Not to be outdone, Kayak asked a third party to run 237 searches, selected randomly. Twenty-three percent of the time, Kayak was cheaper. ''Nobody will beat us (on average) on fares in the US and Europe,'' Mr. English of Kayak wrote in an e-mail message. Kayak, he said, pulls fares from Amadeus, a global distribution system, in addition to ITA Software, and searches some major airlines directly. But he also pointed out that ''no one company can always have the cheapest flight or hotel for every single search.'' Indeed, Fly.com doesn't always offer the cheapest fare. In my own search for flights in early March from Detroit to Orlando, Fla., Kayak and Bing beat out Fly.com by $36. 
 Each meta-search site configures its technology and accesses fares slightly differently, which can affect results. Where the sites also tend to differentiate themselves is through special partnerships and features that might cater to a certain segment of travelers. ''No one site can necessarily do it all for everybody right now,'' said Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel analyst at Forrester Research.
 Momondo.com, the Danish travel search site, for example, uses intelligent Web crawlers to scour the airlines' own Web sites as well as online agencies, focusing on low-cost carriers, some of which are often missed by United States meta-search sites. (LyddAir anyone? How about Snowjet?) Because of the way Momondo pulls fares, however, it must often use cached data, which can result in expired fares showing up. 
 But Momondo says it is working on this and is still worth a look if you're searching for the cheapest way to get around Europe. The site recently began comparing rates with more than 4,000 high-speed train routes across Europe. Searching for flights in early March between Paris and Amsterdam turned up nonstop round-trip prices from $311 on Lastminute.com. But Momondo also offered high-speed train trips from $178 on Thalys, adding about an hour of travel time to the trip. One caveat: travelers must recreate their train search when redirected to the booking site. 
 In the end, I was comfortable that I had found the best deal, during the window that I had searched. Looking back, I visited just a handful of sites, much fewer than the average of 21 visits, but still far more than the promise of a one-stop shop. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RACHEL HARRIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); SEARCH ENGINES (89%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (67%); PUBLISHING (67%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (52%)

COMPANY: AIRLINE TARIFF PUBLISHING CO (65%); KAYAK SOFTWARE CORP (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: KYAK (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (65%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (69%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



550 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Joy to the World

BYLINE: By ALAN WOLFE. 
Alan Wolfe teaches political science at Boston College and is writing a book on political evil.

 BODY:
THE POLITICS OF HAPPINESS
 What Government Can Learn From the New Research on Well-Being
 By Derek Bok
 262 pp. Princeton University Press. $24.95
 Economists, especially those who cross the disciplinary boundary into psychology, have recently begun informing us about what makes people happy. The American political system, as Thomas Jefferson memorably declared, seeks among its three objectives the pursuit of that very thing. The conclusion seems self-evident: Apply what psychology teaches us to the way the system works and the achievement of a good society will be one step closer.
 Such, in brief, runs the argument of ''The Politics of Happiness,'' Derek Bok's new book. Eighty years old this March, Bok, since retiring from the presidency of Harvard University in 1991, has become a prolific author and commentator, addressing vital issues like affirmative action, nuclear weapons and problems of governance. In all his books, he writes out of a commitment to social improvement, with a realistic ability to separate the possible from the utopian. We have, alas, all too few wise people in our media-saturated and celebrity-driven public life. Derek Bok is one of them. 
 Wise Bok may be, but persuasive, at least in this book, he is not. For Bok's argument to work, two conditions have to be met. One, empirical in nature, is that the findings of the economic psychologists must be shown to be trustworthy. The other, a normative issue, requires a demonstration that happiness is indeed something government ought to maximize. ''The Politics of Happiness'' satisfies neither one. 
 ''Happiness research,'' Bok writes, ''is most interesting when its results challenge conventional wisdom about what people want,'' citing as an example the finding that societies experiencing higher incomes are not necessarily happier. It is certainly true that unexpected findings are interesting. But this does not make them reliable. On the contrary, the path to academic fame lies in challenging conventional wisdom, which means that researchers have an incentive to come up with attention-grabbing results. The entire field of behavioral economics -- the term used to describe the intersection of economics and psychology -- has about it a maverick temperament, as if its practitioners are determined to disprove the silly notion that people know what is best for them. We ought to be skeptical of any findings trumpeted so insistently as counterintuitive.
 Such skepticism is especially warranted when matters of public policy are at stake. It is one thing for a social scientist to be wrong, for other studies will most likely discover what is right eventually. Basing a public policy on an incorrect finding, by contrast, sets it in concrete. Because it is difficult to pass laws under our political system -- and next to impossible to repeal them -- we need real certainty before we allow experiments in the lab to become experiments in governance.
 To be sure, Bok is aware of this difficulty and urges appropriate caution; he is neither an unreconstructed utilitarian seeking to maximize pleasure whatever the consequences nor a brave new worlder in search of nirvana. But his very care raises the question of why we need behavioral economics to begin with. Bok's actual policy recommendations -- promoting greater equality, helping to stabilize marriage and the family, improving public health -- require no presumably paradigm-shattering science to back them up. They are the stuff of moderate liberalism and have been with us since the Victorians. Even Bok's most radical recommendation -- abandoning our fetish with economic growth -- has its roots, as he himself recognizes, in 19th-century thinkers like John Stuart Mill.
 Libertarians would argue that even if we can establish what makes individuals happy, we should leave its pursuit to them. Bok is no libertarian; government in his view is generally a force for good. Although the danger of paternalism always accompanies that point of view, Bok faces it squarely: lawmakers using the findings of happiness research ''are relying on persuasive evidence of what will make constituents happy instead of accepting what people mistakenly think will promote their well-being.'' In principle, I find nothing wrong here: democracy is not government by public opinion poll, and legislators have an obligation to do what is right.
 At the very least, however, those who appreciate the need for democratic lawmakers to do unpopular things ought to distinguish carefully between policies that are vital to the public good and those that are discretionary. Laws and court decisions that promote racial equality or immigrant rights are not always popular but are justifiable because they require us to live up to the ideals enshrined in our history and founding documents. But should government help those who suffer from restless leg syndrome? Bok is genuinely dismayed that so many Americans are forced to live with sleep disorders and believes that helping relieve their pain ought to be one of those things government should take on. Libertarians would see in such a recommendation a nanny state out of control, and they would not be wrong.
 Government has the potential to produce happiness, but Americans dislike government. Ever logical, Bok concludes that the state should therefore do more to encourage trust in it. Believing that the public's attitude toward government is too ''extreme'' and its judgments of politicians too ''harsh,'' he also calls for the news media to balance their frequent stories of corruption and inefficiency ''with accounts of success and accomplishment in order to give an accurate picture of the government's performance.'' It may be true that Americans are too skeptical of government for their own good. Yet something tells me that such Mugwumpish ways of trying to overcome the problem will only make matters worse. Americans are most certainly misinformed. Dumb they are not.
 One final policy recommendation Bok makes struck me as particularly inappropriate. I am not sure any behavioral economist has studied the issue, but my guess is that reading ''Othello'' or ''Crime and Punishment'' does not make one happy. Bok wonders whether our colleges and universities ought to do more than just assign such materials, no matter how great their literary merit. We need to teach students to appreciate more fully what makes them happy. So let's teach them . . . happiness research. ''A number of colleges are doing just that,'' he notes, without any apparent dismay. ''Indeed, if interest in Great Books courses has declined, the opposite is true of offerings by behavioral scientists on happiness.'' I'd rather have sleepless nights.
 The flaws in ''The Politics of Happiness'' do not flow from any designs on the part of its author to put one over on us. Bok is always straightforward, honest and well intentioned. It is to his credit that he follows his arguments to their conclusions even if those conclusions expose the flaws in his arguments. He is right to search for a more positive view of the American purpose. To achieve that, however, we need far more than behavioral economics. Maybe we could start by reading more Plato. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS BRAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); POLITICS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); CELEBRITIES (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (72%); WRITERS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (55%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (55%); MILITARY WEAPONS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Politics of Happiness: What Government Can Learn From the New Research on Well-Being, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



551 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; AT THE TABLE FIGS RESTAURANT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Before Takeoff, A Cozy, if Boozy, Spot for a Pizza Pie

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
Catering to the wheels-up-in-an-hour crowd, this no-nonsense Mediterranean restaurant in the basement food court at La Guardia Airport is light on atmosphere and heavy on preflight boozers. It can nonetheless feel cozy at the dark end of a February snowstorm -- especially when packed with delayed travelers, including two identically dressed white-shirted businessmen from the Midwest. 
 -- ALAN FEUER 
 IN THE SEATS The boss, Gerard McMaster, the 47-year-old treasurer of what he called ''a very large'' retail operation based in Michigan, and one of his subordinates, Glen Tomaszewski, 40, a company controller.
 ON THE PLATES For Mr. Tomaszewski, the safe choice of a pizza margherita: fresh tomatoes, mozzarella, garlic, basil and Parmesan cheese ($11.99.) For Mr. McMaster, the somewhat bolder Bronx Bomber pizza (ordered despite his Tigers-loving claims of ''anyone but the Yankees''): classic cheese with spicy pepperoni ($12.99.)
 WHY THEY CAME To grab a quick bite before their 8:24 p.m. flight back to Detroit on Tuesday, following a day spent in the corporate equivalent of a root canal: meeting with the bankers. Believe these gentlemen on the front line of business that it is not impossible to raise money these days, it's just, as Mr. McMaster put it, ''a little more costly.'' Still, one has to wonder if the visitors from the heartland had any harsh words for their New York financiers, whose brethren have caused such damage to the body economic. ''Not today,'' Mr. McMaster said slyly.
 WHAT THEY TALKED ABOUT Critical information-technology matters like which is the more adaptive console -- the PlayStation 3, the Wii or the GameCube. Also, corporate media strategy, which is to say, the movies: from ''Inglourious Basterds'' (''Very violent, very funny, very entertaining,'' Mr. Tomaszewski said) to ''Avatar'' (''Better than I thought.'') The more the snow fell, the more the conversation wandered from the boardroom. ''We'll talk about anything,'' Mr. McMaster said, ''except business.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HUNGRY: Glen Tomaszewski, right, and Gerard McMaster on Tuesday before a flight to Detroit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



552 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; POLITICS; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: St. Helena's Version Of Hatfields vs. McCoys

BYLINE: By DANIEL WEINTRAUB. 
Daniel Weintraub has reported on California politics and policy for more than 20 years.

 BODY:
Cindy Warren has lived in the wine country town of St. Helena for more than 20 years, raised three children there and served on the school board since 2005. So it came as something of a shock when, one day after church, she bumped into a longtime acquaintance at the grocery store who gave her an ice-cold reception.
 ''She literally turned on her heels and walked away,'' Ms. Warren, a former fashion model, said last week in an interview. 
 The problem? Ms. Warren and her erstwhile friend are on opposite sides of a bitter fight over public schools in St. Helena, a picturesque village of about 6,000 near the northern end of the Napa Valley.
 The battle over an election to recall four of the five members of the school board has pitted neighbor against neighbor and friend and against friend, driving a wedge through a small school district that has slightly fewer than 1,400 students. The factions have taken to sitting on opposite sides of the high school gym and staking out separate bleachers on the Little League field. Several pro-recall parents took their children off a swim team after the coach sided with the board members. 
 ''It has torn this community apart,'' said Ms. Warren, who sells real estate in the valley. 
 It is too soon to tell whether the effort to oust Ms. Warren and three colleagues is an aberration prompted by the community's peculiar politics or a sign of things to come in the Bay Area and the rest of California. As education budgets are squeezed by the recession and its effect on tax revenues, parents across the state are bound to question the judgment of those they have elected to run the schools.
 Compared with most other school districts, St. Helena is wealthy. Its huge property tax base helps provide a budget that stands at more than $13,000 per student. That affluence, though, is part of the problem. The dissidents say the board members have misspent their bounty and left the district vulnerable to efforts in the Legislature to shift property tax revenue from districts like theirs to others that are struggling to get by with less.
 The recall was sparked by the board's decision last April to promote an assistant superintendent to the top job. Many parents had wanted to conduct a wide search for a new leader, but the trustees said they needed an insider for continuity as the district committed itself to a transformation built around the highly regarded International Baccalaureate program.
 ''The board members weren't listening to the parents,'' said Kathy Zelazny, a local lawyer and a leader in the recall campaign. ''Their attitude was, 'We know better than you.' ''
 It didn't help that the new superintendent was given a base salary -- $189,000 -- that many in the community found excessive. Anger over that decision led to a broader indictment that included accusations of neglecting special-education students, vocational programs and preschool for poor children.
 Parents started talking about the issues, said Jeanne DeVincenzi, one of the candidates to join the board if the recall succeeds. ''These weren't just isolated incidents,'' she said.
 As the tension built last summer, tempers flared. At one board meeting, the dissidents, on cue, stormed out of the auditorium en masse after the board approved an early retirement package for employees. ''See you at the recall!'' they shouted as they left.
 Later, they confronted the trustees privately, handing each an 80-page memorandum accusing them of misconduct in office and threatening to seek a criminal investigation if they did not resign. The board members refused, and the fight was on.
 About 2,000 voters signed the recall petitions, easily qualifying the question for a special election ballot. The election is being held mostly by mail and will conclude Tuesday.
 The campaign has been marked by unusual twists and turns. An early leader of the recall was charged last month with voter fraud after the district attorney alleged that she had voted twice in the last school board election. And when the four incumbents missed the deadline for filing statements to appear in the ballot pamphlet, the registrar threatened to leave them out altogether. In the end he substituted statements they had written in their own defense for the recall petitions.
 ''It's been absolutely ridiculous,'' said Ms. Warren, the board president. ''The only thing missing is a sex scandal.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BOARDS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (88%); BUDGETS (86%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICS (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); YOUTH SPORTS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



553 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Putting New Perspective On Illinois Corruption

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN

 BODY:
James Warren is a columnist for the Chicago News Cooperative.
 Dick Simpson stood somberly on the fifth floor of the century-old Cook County Building last week, in an area between two banks of elevators with the faint aroma of cheap institutional cleaner. His topic was as dispiriting as the ill-lit environ chosen for a no-news press briefing.
''Corruption in Cook County: Anti-Corruption Report Number 3'' was the handout for the event, and Mr. Simpson was joined by Andy Shaw, the longtime television reporter who now runs the Better Government Association, and Representative Mike Quigley, a North Side Democrat who did time on the Cook County Board of Commissioners. 
 We're lucky to have Mr. Simpson, a University of Illinois at Chicago political scientist and former Chicago alderman, who humorlessly chronicles corruption here just as Edward Gibbon, the 18th-century English historian, detailed the Roman Empire's rise and fall. Mr. Simpson's latest handiwork is a directory of skulduggery, with the tales of nearly 150 convicted county politicians and officials. 
 And, yet -- as I listened to the presenters talk about documented misdeeds being just the tips of icebergs; the ''corruption tax'' we pay in more expensive services; and the virtual non-efforts of Cook County's state attorneys -- I couldn't help recalling a distant night in El Salvador. It was in the late 1980s, during the civil war in which the United States supported an often-odious government. I was at a spaghetti dinner in the capital, San Salvador, with veteran foreign correspondents who debated this: Who's the biggest crook ever? 
 There were citations of billion-dollar thefts and whole industries nationalized to enrich a single family. There were many strong candidates, but not one American was mentioned. 
 It's partly why one might wonder about the unceasing refrain from Rush Limbaugh and his ideological confreres in Washington about ''the Chicago way'' of doing business. It's all tied to bashing President Obama and top aides as being products of a culture of chicanery. 
 Invoking the phrase is too facile by half, even conceding the convictions of 31 Chicago aldermen since the 1970s and the fact that former Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich awaits trial as his predecessor, George Ryan, sits in prison. You can stipulate to the corrosive nature of money in Illinois politics but still argue convincingly that we're minor players on the world stage of public perfidy. 
 By some measures, corruption in Illinois even trails that in five or six other states, with Florida leading the way. And we're pipsqueaks if you exhibit a broader perspective than, say, a City Hall news media corps that tends to see Mayor Richard M. Daley -- perhaps America's most successful mayor -- as a duplicitous, dissembling, omnipotent, one-person evil cabal. 
 ''Compare the corruption of an alderman who takes a few thousand dollars from a developer to the corruption of Abdul Qadeer Khan, the head of the Pakistan nuclear program, going around the world, selling atomic bomb technology to Libya, North Korea and Iran to make a buck,'' said Moises Naim, editor of Foreign Policy magazine and a former Venezuelan trade minister who writes about the ravaging impact of corruption worldwide. ''Look at the differing scale of consequences.'' 
 If one inspects Berlin-based Transparency International's respected rankings of corrupt societies, the United States is pretty clean, said Nancy Boswell, who is the president of the agency's United States branch. 
 We're not in the same league as drug traffickers managing billions of dollars and undermining governments, the robber barons of Russia or the pirates of Somalia. ''There's no ground for comparison,'' Mr. Naim said. ''It's comparing an elephant with a dog.'' 
 And factor in a free media. Carles Boix, a Spanish political scientist formerly at the University of Chicago and now at Princeton, notes a correlation between newspaper readership (and an informed citizenry) and lower levels of corruption. 
 Robin Wright, a former foreign correspondent now with the United States Institute of Peace, said, ''What Blagojevich may have done was disgraceful, but it's small potatoes compared to the likes of Zaire's Mobutu Sese Seko, who stashed tens of millions of dollars in personal bank accounts and commandeered the national airline so his wife could go shop in Paris.'' 
 Ms. Wright has interviewed Mobutu, Idi Amin of Uganda and other rogues. ''Whether it's the Somali pirates, who created a national economy based on corruption; the drug lords in Afghanistan and Colombia; or the Mafia in Moscow, corruption elsewhere dwarfs the worst crime in Illinois, New Jersey and New York,'' she said. 
 Of course, there's a more insidious culture that can pollute officials, regardless of party or their hometown. It's the Washington way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); COUNTIES (90%); POLITICS (88%); MAYORS (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (87%); HISTORY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); LARCENY & THEFT (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EL SALVADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



554 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS TO THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Other Voices: Reporters' Allegiances

 BODY:
Re ''Too Close to Home'' (Feb. 6):
 I was one of the 400 people who wrote to you about what I believe is an obvious conflict of interest for Ethan Bronner. I would also like to inform you that I am a Jewish American, speak Hebrew, conscientiously read the Hebrew press and have volunteered as a soldier in the Israeli Defense Forces. I also have now come to believe that the Israeli occupation is illegal, immoral and not in the best interests of the United States. 
 I praise you for recommending that Mr. Bronner be reassigned. But your judgment that his coverage is fair and evenhanded is not accurate. Even compared with previous Times correspondents, I believe his coverage is clearly more biased in a way that reflects the degree that he and his family are embedded in the Israeli culture. 
 You are correct that appearances are important. It appears that The Times does not care if its Israeli correspondent has a conflict of interest. This does not surprise me. What does surprise me is that after it became known that Mr. Bronner's son had enlisted in the I.D.F., Bill Keller would choose to make the paper's bias so public by summarily rejecting your advice to reassign him. 
 IRA GLUNTS
 Madison, N.Y., Feb. 8, 2010
 I would like to suggest that you have misstated the reason that observers, apparently including yourself, object to Ethan Bronner's assignment. I believe that it is not, as you suggest, because a significant number of people perceive a bias. It is, rather, because a significant number of people perceive a bias that they find objectionable. I suspect, for example, that few Americans would object to the assignment of a reporter to the Middle East simply because he had a son in a United States military uniform doing six months of training before returning to college. 
 I point this out because if I am correct, then the true issue is not one of conflict of interest. Rather, it is in a sense a matter of popularity: if a large number of people find the perceived interest of the reporter objectionable, then it is impermissible. If they see the conflict but don't mind it, it's acceptable. NORM TABLER
 Indianapolis, Feb. 9, 2010
 I believe the need for Ethan Bronner's reassignment is clear. Could you imagine if the Jerusalem bureau chief of any major media source was the father of a Palestinian militant? It's a nonstarter, and it's common sense.
 If a media source actually aspires to be unbiased, not just the voice of a popular liberal narrative, then the need for reassignment and a serious examination of policy are self-evident.
 JERRY MAROGIL
 Grand Rapids, Mich., Feb. 7, 2010
 Curiously you ignore the gorilla in the room, namely, the question of whether merely being a Jew creates an unacceptable appearance of, or actual, conflict when covering Israel and the Palestinians. I don't think so, and clearly that is not the position of The Times. But where should the line be drawn? Why does a son's service as an enlisted man create an appearance of conflict (as you concluded), but not one's birth in the religion espoused by one side in the affairs being reported? 
 There's no way of telling whether being Jewish will have more or less impact on objectivity than having a son in the Israeli military. (I note that some of the most ardent antiwar critics in our own country have sons who enlisted in the military.) Lacking any evidence of the relative impact of a son's enlistment, I suggest that the best evidence of conflict, or lack thereof is, as Mr. Bronner says, his work, not his biography. MICHAEL YESLEY
 Bainbridge Island, Wash., Feb. 7, 2010
 Clark Hoyt: Some Times journalists have taken issue with my position in this case, believing it suggests that no Jewish reporter could fairly cover the Israeli-Palestinian conflict (or, for that matter, a corollary: that a Muslim of Arab descent could not cover Iraq). Until Thomas L. Friedman was sent to Jerusalem in 1984, The Times would not assign a Jew to that post, a sorry history that nobody should want to repeat.
 But there is a huge difference between being a Jewish reporter covering the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and being a reporter whose son has enlisted in the Israeli military. For one thing, as the letter from Ira Glunts illustrates, there is no unanimity among Jews about Israel. To suggest otherwise is to buy into stereotypes. Good reporters bring their life stories to their work and learn both to mine them for material and to correct for bias. But having a son take up arms in a foreign fight you are covering -- any fight -- creates intolerable pressures and appearances, in my view. I would have said the same thing if The Times had had a reporter in Northern Ireland with a son in the British military there -- or fighting with the Provisional Irish Republican Army.
 So, what about Norm Tabler's point? If it isn't acceptable for a Jerusalem correspondent's son to volunteer in the Israeli Defense Forces, would it be O.K. for him to be in the United States Army? My answer is yes, though the reporter's assignment might be affected by what his son was assigned to do -- and where. Though some journalists concerned with objectivity may not always be comfortable with it, readers expect American reporters and their family to be part of this society and to exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. But they don't expect a correspondent sent to cover an intense overseas conflict to wind up heavily invested in one side -- or to be perceived as such -- even if it is through the action of a close family member over whom the reporter has no control. 
 I was recently quoted as saying that Ethan Bronner's coverage is ''impressively well-written and relatively evenhanded.'' Relatively evenhanded but not sufficiently evenhanded -- my sentence was truncated. What I had actually written was: ''I have found Bronner's articles to be impressively well-written and relatively evenhanded -- at least more evenhanded than articles written by others on the Israeli/Palestinian conflict.''
 I went on to say that ''Times reporters have always fallen a bit short in presenting the historical and economic context of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict -- and in spending as much time covering the violence perpetrated by Israelis as they spend in covering the violence of Palestinians. This is a serious shortcoming because, quite simply, the number of Palestinians killed every year by Israel is several times greater than the number of Israelis killed by Palestinians. Israel is currently under great scrutiny because of last year's bloody offensive in Gaza.'' 
 With a son in the Israeli Army, will Mr. Bronner be able to provide unbiased reporting? LINDA MAMOUN
 Boulder, Colo., Feb. 10, 2010
 For additional letters to the public editor, go to nytimes.com/publiceditorsjournal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



555 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; KICK STARTS FEB. 14-20; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 493 words

 BODY:
THE NEWS After more than a year of holding short-term interest rates at historic lows, the Federal Reserve suddenly raised the interest rate it charges on loans to banks by a quarter-point, to 0.75 percent. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The surprise was in the timing, not the direction of the move. The Fed had been signaling its desire to drain down the ocean of cheap money it had poured into the banking system to combat the financial crisis. Banks have no trouble borrowing these days. But their customers do, and the Fed stressed that it was not ready yet to start a broad tightening of credit.
THE NEWS Public high schools in eight states will begin an experimental program next year allowing 10th graders who pass a battery of tests to get a diploma two years early and immediately enroll in community college.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Modeled on practices in European and Asian countries with high-performing schools, the plan is meant to award diplomas for exam-tested mastery rather than ''seat time'' in class. Organizers say fewer students would need remedial classes in college. Those bound for competitive universities would continue with college preparatory courses in high school.
 THE NEWSUnited Nations nuclear inspectors declared for the first time that they had extensive evidence of ''past or current undisclosed activities'' by Iran's military to develop a nuclear warhead.
 BEHIND THE NEWS The news seemed certain to worsen Iran's conflict with the West. The blunt report contradicted a 2007 assessment by American intelligence that Iran had halted direct weapon-development work. Iran denies trying to build a nuclear weapon. Vice President Joseph Biden said the administration would ask the Senate to ratify the nuclear test ban treaty approved by the United Nations in the 1990s.
 THE NEWSPresident Obama began a campaign to boost the public perception of his year-old stimulus bill, saying it created or saved as many as two million jobs and prevented a depression. Senior officials fanned out across the country to talk up the measure and to announce new projects that it will finance. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS White House officials conceded that they may have made mistakes in framing public discussion of the stimulus -- many people confuse it with the Wall Street bailouts, for example -- and that criticism from the right had made it an albatross for Democrats in this year's midterm elections.
 THE NEWS Emboldened by Republican election victories in New Jersey, Virginia and Massachusetts in recent months, conservative activists who gathered for an annual conference threatened incumbents in both parties with vigorous challenges from the right in the midterm elections.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Republicans face a challenge as they try to harness the Tea Party movement's energy and new faces and views. At the conference, Republican leaders paid tribute to the Tea Party movement and pledged to defeat Republicans who did not adhere to conservative views. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KAREN BLEIER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
JOHN NORDELL/THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR GETTY IMAGES
IHS JANE'S ANALYSIS/GEOEYE SATELLITE
LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ED REINKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (74%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (67%); CONSERVATISM (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); APPROVALS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%); JOE BIDEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



556 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: Designed to Help Uplift the Poor

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 LIKE almost every other American architect who came to prominence in the recent gilded age, Michael Maltzan built his reputation with commissions for prestigious museums and luxurious private houses. In 2002 he garnered national attention for his graceful design for the temporary Museum of Modern Art in Queens. His most recent projects include a flying-saucer-like house for the artists Lari Pittman and Roy Dowell in the foothills of the San Gabriel Mountains and a far grander, 28,000-square-foot Beverly Hills mansion -- part art gallery, part home -- for the investor and former Hollywood uber-agent Michael Ovitz.
 Yet Mr. Maltzan may be the only American architect of his stature with significant experience in a far less glamorous field: providing shelter and other accommodations for his city's poor. Over the past 16 years he has worked on several housing projects for the homeless and an arts complex for underprivileged children that are remarkable for their architectural sophistication and their spirit of public service. 
 His newest building, the Carver Apartments, a drum-shaped residential complex, strikes a tricky balance between two fundamental and often conflicting needs of the chronically homeless, for a sense of being protected, on the one hand, and regular human contact on the other. His next project, an elegant composition of prefabricated blocks that is still in the design phase, could make that nuanced approach available to many more people. Together these designs deliver a major blow to the conventional notion of contemporary architecture as little more than an indulgence of the rich or highly cultured. 
 Mr. Maltzan stumbled into the role of socially conscious architect. He arrived in Los Angeles in 1988 and was soon working for Frank Gehry, then still a cult figure for young architects looking for a way out of the malaise of postmodernism. In 1993, while at work on the early stages of the Walt Disney Concert Hall design, Mr. Maltzan was approached by Irwin Jaeger, a businessman, and Bob Bates, an artist, to look at a garbage-strewn lot at the edge of Skid Row where they were planning to build a home for Inner City Arts, an after-school program. 
 The project became Mr. Maltzan's first solo commission. A complex of studio spaces clustered around landscaped courtyards, its sculptured white stucco buildings and raw interiors evoked the lyrical architectural forms of Alvaro Siza as well as the sculptural compositions of Mr. Gehry's work, suggesting a young architect easing into his own voice. 
 It also demonstrated an unusual sensitivity for those who taught and worked there. The comforting scale of the gardens and studios, animated by light funneling through big skylights and windows set at the eye level of a small child, imbue these spaces with a warmth that is rare in low-budget construction.
 The project attracted the attention of the Skid Row Housing Trust, an organization dedicated to providing permanent homes for the most vulnerable members of the downtown homeless population -- people with a combination of disabling conditions like drug addictions, mental illnesses and physical disabilities who had drifted in and out of shelters for years. 
 Mr. Maltzan's first building for the trust, the Rainbow apartment complex, is surrounded by Skid Row's sprawling encampments. To shelter the tenants from the nearby misery, Mr. Maltzan oriented its 87 apartments around a big ceremonial staircase and an outdoor courtyard. From a shared top-floor terrace, tenants look over toward the glittering towers of the business district a few blocks away, which in this neighborhood can sometimes seem an unreachable oasis of prosperity and calm. The project, completed in 2006, offered a sharp contrast to the soul-crushing atmosphere of more typical homeless shelters, from which many of its tenants had been plucked.
 ''People who are in the shelter-shuttle, going from one to another, are relatively anonymous,'' said Mike Alvidrez, the housing trust's director. ''And in an old-fashioned S.R.O., you're sealed off from the outside and each other. Rainbow spawned this whole interaction between people who didn't know one another.
 ''You never know what form it's going to take,'' he added. The kitchen opens onto the courtyard, for example, which promotes outdoor gatherings; the courtyard's planters spawned a gardening club; the community room gave rise to yoga classes and other activities. There are now 15 to 20 clubs operating in the complex.
 By the time Mr. Alvidrez hired Mr. Maltzan to design the Carver Apartments, a 97-unit building on a corner about a mile away, the group's architectural ambitions had grown in scope. 
 ''Rainbow triggered a lot of ideas,'' Mr. Alvidrez said. ''What we started to learn is how the design can help people get stabilized as a community. For us the building became part of the recovery.'' 
 The Carver Apartments were designed to serve the same population as Rainbow, but the context of the new building raises distinct challenges. It stands in the middle of a neighborhood of dilapidated warehouses and empty lots, with an elevated section of the 10 Freeway pressing up against it to the south. On a recent weekday morning the only sign of life on the ground was a homeless man silently setting down his shoes just outside his tent underneath a freeway on-ramp. 
 At first glance the building seems to hold itself somewhat aloof from this setting. Its crisp white cylindrical exterior is broken into a series of saw-tooth-like vertical ridges. A pattern of narrow horizontal and vertical windows, designed to keep out the noise and exhaust fumes, contributes to its slightly defensive air.
 As Mr. Maltzan explained the first time we toured the site: ''One of the first things people do when they live on the street is put up walls around themselves to try to create some feeling of safety. You need to provide those walls before you can start to open things back up.'' 
 He brings the same level of architectural intelligence to those walls that he does to the design of a mogul's house. The building's curved facade, for example, mirrors the curve of the freeway on-ramp, so that as you approach along one of the two streets that border it, the curves seem to converge, creating a sense of acceleration and pulling you around to the front of the building. When you reach the main entrance, the momentum slows, and the scene becomes more peaceful. The faceted concrete box of the lobby pushes out toward the sidewalk as if to invite you inside. 
 The anticipation builds once again as you move toward the building's central courtyard, a dreamy cylindrical space that is dominated by a grand staircase. A ring of sheet-metal fins climb the full height of the space, accentuating its vertical thrust, and your eye intuitively follows them up past several rows of balconies to a perfect circle of California sky.
 The sense of compression brings to mind the ''social condensers'' created by Soviet avant-garde architects in the 1920s, communal spaces designed as a means of breaking down bourgeois individualism. But the courtyard has more to do with psychological healing than with utopianism. It is an inner sanctuary meant to nurture a sense of security -- not mass conformity.
 To keep this feeling from becoming too suffocating, Mr. Maltzan makes a series of bold cuts through other parts of the building, creating surprising visual connections to the world outside. A counter in the communal kitchen, for example, lines up with a slot that runs diagonally through the entire ground floor, framing views of the freeway's underbelly on one end and back toward Skid Row on the other. 
 The most unexpected of these views is in the laundry and community room on the third floor. Conceived as the building's domestic heart, the room overlooks a section of the elevated freeway through a long horizontal window. The window is made of acoustical glass, so that even at midday the noise is reduced to a soft hum. But it is so close to the passing cars that at rush hour, when traffic is barely moving, tenants and drivers can make direct and prolonged eye contact. Late at night, when the freeway is nearly empty, the cars flow by in a dreamy rhythm. 
 It's a witty, even poetic moment, one that captures the dueling essences of Los Angeles: the promise of freedom and opportunity embodied by its freeways and the degree to which that promise has turned out to be a fantasy. 
 But Mr. Maltzan's housing experiments also suggest another way of thinking about the city. For much of the 20th century many architects vehemently believed in the world-changing power of their art. The age of mass production would create light-filled environments, sweeping away the squalor of urban slums. A profession that had traditionally served an aristocratic elite would now raise up the masses.
 That dream, of course, collapsed decades ago, a victim of corrupting political and economic forces, mediocre talents and its own ideological rigidity. In its final days it was reduced to a few dehumanizing formulas for generic housing blocks and office towers. A generation of architects never recovered from the trauma. 
 Like others who were raised in the postmodern era, Mr. Maltzan is not directly invested in that history. Nor is he interested in coming up with a new ideological formula. His idea of progress is incremental -- the kind that can be tested through careful observation of everyday experiences. His aim has been to find a rhythm that accounts for the often conflicting needs of the human condition.
 The Carver Apartments are the next step in this quest. The building not only manages to provide a feeling of security while easing the crippling sense of isolation that can often afflict the homeless; it also makes visible, through its strong architectural form, a group of people that many in our society would often prefer to ignore. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Maltzan's recent project includes the Carver Apartments, top and right, standing amid old warehouses and an elevated portion of the 10 Freeway in Los Angeles. Below right, a rendering of Mr. Maltzan's next project, Star Apartments, which is still in the design phase.
Inside the Carver Apartments, above, is a cylindrical space in which sheet-metal fins climb its full height. Bottom right, a house for the artists Lari Pittman and Roy Dowell in the foothills of the San Gabriel Mountains was designed by Mr. Maltzan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IWAN BAAN
 MICHAEL MALTZAN ARCHITECTURE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); CHILDREN (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (72%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); CITY LIFE (68%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (53%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (53%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



557 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: A Ski Bum Turned Politician Revels in the Olympic Spotlight

BYLINE: By CHARLES McGRATH

DATELINE: WHISTLER, British Columbia 

 BODY:
Ken Melamed, the mayor of this resort town, where the Olympic Alpine and sliding events are taking place amid bad weather, controversy and an athlete's death, is a ski bum turned politician who voted against bringing the Games here. 
 That was in 2002, when Melamed was a town councilor with a record of environmental activism and what his opponents called Nimby-ism. Since being elected mayor in 2005, he has become a convert to the Olympics, earning him a new set of opponents, some disgruntled Whistlerites who think the Games are too big, too expensive and ecologically unsound.
 But on Thursday, he was still upbeat in spite of long hours and relentless requests for interviews and television appearances.
 ''In terms of community involvement, it's been really heartwarming to see how people have come together,'' he said. 
 But one could not have been prepared for the death of a Georgian luge racer on a training run.
 ''The accident was very deflating and demoralizing,'' Melamed said. ''It saddened everyone. You have all these young athletes hoping to show off their excellence, and the last thing you expect on the first day of the Games is to have to offer sympathies and condolences. But there are lot of other athletes who have spent their whole lives training for this, so you have no choice. You have to go on.''
 Last week at Municipal Hall, a shedlike building near the ski mountain and one of the few places in Whistler that could use a coat of paint, Melamed clarified his earlier position on the Games. 
 ''It's a bit of a fine point, but I like to think of my vote as not against the Olympics but about were we ready,'' he said. ''I didn't think we had enough security to make sure that the environment would be respected. We still hadn't cracked the nut of resident housing. We were at the start of an economic downturn. I wanted to be sure we were ready and that the Games could happen on our terms.''
 He added, ''Very clearly, the community appreciated that I was willing to ask those questions.'' 
 Melamed, 55, was probably raised to be contrarian. He grew up in Philadelphia, where his mother taught folk dancing and his father was an urban planner at the Fels Institute of Government at the University of Pennsylvania. In 1966, the family moved to Canada in opposition to the Vietnam War.
 ''My father couldn't live with the thought that his taxes were going to support the war effort,'' Melamed said. 
 The Melameds settled in Montreal and became ''Canadianized,'' as Melamed put it. His father, who had studied at the Sorbonne, was bilingual, and the family quickly made connections with the local Jewish community and the folksingers and folk dancers. Melamed threw himself into sports, skiing especially. 
 ''It just spoke to me,'' he said. ''This concept of sliding down in the snow, the thrill and the exhilaration, was something I was incredibly taken with. Pretty soon, all I could dream about was skiing.''
 Upon graduating from Dawson College in Quebec in 1973, Melamed headed west to ski -- first to Jasper, Alberta; then, when he heard the season was longer there, to Whistler, where he arrived in an old Volkswagen bus. This was in 1976, and depending on your point of view, the dark or the golden age of ski-bumming. Whistler had 500 residents, 2 stores and no place to do laundry. Melamed lived in a trailer at the base of the mountain.
 ''There weren't a lot of services,'' he said. ''There weren't a lot of women. But it was a paradise for this small, very-tight-knit community of serious skiers. There wasn't much grooming but lots of snow.''
 After two years of operating a lift, Melamed was hired by the ski patrol, for which he has worked ever since, and he also learned stone masonry. But his main goal, he said, was ''just to figure out how to maximize my skiing.''
 In the late 1980s, as part of an exchange program, Melamed worked on the ski patrol in Les Arcs, France, where workers are unionized. He tried organizing the ski patrol at Whistler. 
 ''My father was prounion, so for me, this was something I was willing to entertain,'' he said. ''At the time, the mountain was going through a management phase, cutting back on staff benefits and food discounts.''
 Explaining that his efforts were unsuccessful, he added: ''This is a part of my history that isn't talked about that much anymore. It became quite bitter. The mountain wasn't at all interested in having a union.''
 After an unsuccessful bid for the town council in 1993, Melamed, who is married and has two children, was elected in 1996 and has held office ever since.
 ''Perhaps the people who don't believe in unions have forgiven me and recognized that people can change,'' he said. ''I think I've demonstrated an ability to adapt and to respect the will of the community.'' 
 By then, he had established his credentials as an environmentalist. 
 ''In the late '80s, development really perked up here, and people were seeing change at a pace that very few people ever see,'' he said. ''It was like, just add water and things started to sprout out of the ground. We were in danger of killing the goose that laid the golden egg.''
 Whistler now has a year-round population of 10,000. During the ski season, the average daily population swells to 26,000. When all the hotels are full, it can approach 50,000. The Belgian block walkways are lined with high-end shops and pricey condominiums. But ski tourism is off, and after being bought by the hedge fund Fortress Investment Group two years ago, Intrawest, the company that owns and runs Whistler's two mountains, is in danger of foreclosure.
 Some townspeople complain that during Melamed's administration property taxes have gone up and parking in some lots is no longer free. Others are unhappy that he has barred strippers from bars. And some Whistlerites say Melamed changed his stripes on the Olympics issue.
 But Nancy Wilhelm-Morden, a local lawyer who was originally opposed to the Games, wrote in an e-mail message, ''They're here, and I am happy to welcome everyone and show off our town.''
 Defending his support of the Games, Melamed said: ''The community made a choice. We live in a democratic society, and when 70 percent of the community says you go down this path, you go down that path.''
 He said that for an investment of $9 million or so, raised through a tax on hotel rooms, Whistler stood to benefit a hundredfold.
 ''Now I can say, thank goodness we had the Olympics to at least mitigate some of the economic downturn,'' he said, though with Intrawest's financial troubles, it may take years to do the accounting.
 Melamed said that, aside from watching it go up, he and his office had nothing to do with the design and construction of the Whistler Sliding Centre.
 ''This is one of those areas where municipal government absolutely shouldn't be involved; we have to defer to the experts,'' he said.
 Even experts could not influence the weather.
 ''If you live in the mountains, you know that the weather is something you can't control,'' he said, adding, ''On Monday, the skies finally opened up a little for the men's downhill, and it was very, very beautiful.'' 
 Melamed says he does not get on the slopes as much as he would like, and he no longer has the raccoonlike markings -- tanned face, pale eyes -- of the dedicated ski bum. He said he had been stockpiling ski days in anticipation of the Olympics and had managed to get out once since they began.
 ''I'm missing it,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Ken Melamed, left, works on the Whistler Mountain ski patrol one day a week. Melamed's family left the United States for Canada during the Vietnam War, settling in Montreal. He skied for the first time when was 14, far right. Melamed moved west in the 1970s and became a stone mason, top right. In 1978, he took part in a relay race on Whistler Mountain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM STALLKNECHT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); MULTILINGUALISM (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); VIETNAM WAR (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (86%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (74%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (86%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



558 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: New Plan on School Selection, but Still Discontent

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
After years of complaints from parents, the San Francisco Unified School District has just taken a serious step toward revamping its well-meaning but labyrinthine student-assignment system, which decides the educational homes for tens of thousands of children. 
 The current system -- designed to meet the terms of a settlement in a long-fought federal desegregation case -- involves a complicated computer algorithm that creates student ''profiles,'' using various economic and educational factors, with the aim of sending students of different backgrounds to the same schools.
It has resulted instead in more segregation and has aggravated parents to a point where efforts to manipulate the system have become endemic. 
 This month, the school district rolled out a new plan. It is designed to more closely consider proximity between a student's home and classroom. It is to be applied to every child headed for kindergarten. 
 And once again, no one seems completely happy. 
 ''I'll be honest with you; we're really frustrated,'' said Michelle Menegaz, the chairwoman of the Parent Advisory Council, which was established by the school board and has made recommendations on how to fix the assignment system. ''We're really concerned that what's being put forward now doesn't reflect the best of our research and it doesn't reflect the needs the community expressed.'' 
 What everyone agrees on is that the current system is broken. In a quarter of San Francisco's public schools, more than 60 percent of the student body is of a single race, and academic performance by black, Latino and Samoan students continues to lag. In theory, parents choose up to seven schools for their child, but 20 percent of kindergarteners get none of their parents' choices. 
 All of which has been a boon for private schools; San Francisco has a larger percentage of students in private schools -- nearly 3 out of 10 -- than any other major city in the state. Others families simply move away.
 And while advocates of the new plan say it offers more flexibility and simplicity, whether that will be the case is unclear. 
 At a school board meeting on Wednesday, Commissioner Jill Wynns seemed perplexed as to whether the plan would meet the board's elusive goals of diversity and transparency. 
 ''If you don't know it can be done,'' Ms. Wynn said of the redesign team, ''how can we trust it will be done?'' 
 Such questions are ringing in the ears of parents throughout the city, especially those -- like this reporter -- who have a child entering kindergarten in the fall.
 Here is how the current system works: Let's say a 5-year-old -- we'll call him Jake, like my son -- wants to go to kindergarten. His parents fill out an application and list seven schools they prefer. 
 The more desirable schools get more applications than they have seats; in some cases that ratio is 20 to 1. That's where the Diversity Index comes in. Known as ''the lottery,'' the index uses five factors to determine a child's profile: poverty level, socio-economic status, English-language proficiency, academic achievement and, for upper grades, the quality of the student's previous school. 
 Once that profile is built, the child is placed in one of his selected schools, in a class of students whose collective profile is as different from his own profile as possible. As each child is added, the class profile is adjusted, and more ''most different'' children are placed. Students living near their selected schools are considered first. The district also gives preference to children who have siblings at the same school and apply on time. 
 But there is no guarantee that a child will get in a selected school. And once the lottery has filled all the slots, those soon-to-be kindergartners who get into none of their choices are offered a place in a school with open positions. Proximity to their home and transportation are considered.
 Designed to be race-neutral, the system has instead been widely criticized as too complex and opaque. ''It's all magic and voodoo,'' Ms. Menegaz said, only half joking. 
 What Superintendent Carlos A. Garcia has now proposed is essentially a new algorithm that, in addition to siblings, weighs proximity to schools more heavily and -- in a new wrinkle -- considers whether a student attended pre-K in the same area as a selected school. 
 The fine points are of great interest -- or frustration -- to parents. But the discussion of the overall goal, diversity, is laced with the themes of race, class and equity. So discussions about it are awkward. 
 For example, school officials say that part of the problem with the assignment system is that parental interest and resources can be inherently unequal. White and Asian parents tend to be very involved in the early stages of the process, while black and Latino ones are less so. The result is that more white and Asian children end up in preferred schools. 
 'The applicant pools are not diverse,'' said Orla O'Keeffe, the district official charged with redesigning the system.
 In addition, schools in some low-income neighborhoods also tend to be less well-attended, draining the intangibles -- and the fund-raising -- that large and active parent-teacher associations can provide. ''Not all of our schools are equal,'' Ms. Menegaz said. ''They're not equally staffed, not equally resourced and not equally supported.''
 All of which has led to a kind of obsessive paranoia among some parents, who chatter about the process endlessly. 
 Amy Graff, a 35-year-old mother of two who writes about parenting at sfgate.com, became an online celebrity in parent circles when she blogged about trying to place her daughter in a good kindergarten, a process she called ''crazy and irrational.''
 ''The school you pick becomes your identity,'' Ms. Graff said.
 The process of picking a school involves many complicated decisions. Then there are the tours, an exercise wherein dozens of nervous parents -- many armed with pads and pens, others taking notes on iPods -- try to glean a sense of a school by crowding into classrooms and peering around for clues. Are there A-B-Cs on the walls? Are there computers? Are there cute drawings? (The answers are almost always yes, yes, and yes.) 
 Hopes are raised and dashed. At Grattan Elementary School -- in the trendy Cole Valley neighborhood -- I was part of a tour that was told about a fantastic kindergarten teacher who was retiring. 
 The school district tries to help. Every fall it hosts an enrollment fair. Every school in the city sets up a booth and tries to sell itself. (With financing tied to number of students, under-enrollment is a sin to be avoided.) 
 The fair can be one-stop-shopping, and the resulting crush often resembles a middle-aged mosh pit, as parents jostle to grab brochures and ask questions. 
 There are reasons to be impressed. One of the strengths of the San Francisco schools is their ambitious language programs. And test scores from San Francisco public schools have regularly risen over the last decade, and are now within shouting distance of the state's performance targets, lagging slightly behind San Jose but well ahead of Oakland and Los Angeles. 
 Still, the continuing debate over the best way to achieve diversity has led some to question the priorities. Zach Berkowitz, a San Francisco native and real estate developer who has two children, including a son about to enter kindergarten, said he remembered the conversations about diversity when he was a student. 
 ''Thirty years ago we were fighting about the same thing,'' Mr. Berkowitz said. ''And not once do they talk about education.'' 
 As for my Jake, and thousands of other San Francisco children, admission offers will be mailed on March 12. Not that he seems too concerned exactly where. 
 ''I like going to school, Daddy,'' he told me recently. ''In San Francisco.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A new plan could affect the makeup of San Francisco schools. Parents took their children to McKinley Elementary on Wednesday
 A student being dropped off at McKinley Elementary, which is in the Castro district and near Duboce Park.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



559 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: THE NEEDIEST CASES; Touched by Stories, Readers Open Purses To Help Change Lives

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MASCIA

 BODY:
''I just want a steady job,'' Telmo Cerezo, 31, a developmentally delayed Ecuadorean immigrant, said in November. With money from The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, Mr. Cerezo had bought business attire for job interviews. But after an article about him ran in The Times, Mr. Cerezo got his wish: After sorting through an outpouring of job offers, he accepted a position as a maintenance worker at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. 
 Mr. Cerezo was not the only beneficiary of the publicity that accompanied the article's publication. The Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, the agency that secured Neediest Cases money for Mr. Cerezo, placed two more of its clients in jobs at companies that came forward after reading about Mr. Cerezo. 
 ''It can take a while to establish relationships with companies and organizations willing to hire folks with disabilities, so this is very exciting for us,'' said Allison Raaum, a public relations representative at the Brooklyn Bureau. 
 Unlike other charity drives, the Neediest Cases campaign benefits from individual narratives to generate direct donations. The campaign ended this month. Sometimes the articles can have powerful effects on the people profiled.
 Nazaury Delgado, whose striking, layered Photoshop portraits earned him a full scholarship to the Fashion Institute of Technology, still had to contend with an unreliable, crashing computer when an article about him ran in January. Shortly afterward, a donor emerged and bought him a new Apple computer and a considerable amount of software and supplies. Four other donors sent him money, and a retired art professor pledged money for art supplies. Mr. Delgado had several requests for commissioned portraits, including from a sixth-grade class at a private school in Brooklyn. 
 But most important, said Ellen Lubell of the Children's Aid Society, which secured the money Mr. Delgado needed for an educational assessment before he could attend F.I.T., was the praise and encouragement he received from people within -- and outside -- the art world. 
 After the publication of an article about Metho Nelson, a formerly homeless 23-year-old who has been working and attending school while living in a shelter, Mr. Nelson's dearest wish came true. He was offered a scholarship to Brooklyn College. 
 An article about Wayne Knight, who fell behind on his bills after being severely injured at work, prompted a donor to come forward to help him pay $1,200 in back rent and $3,000 toward a hospital debt. Ms. Raaum from the Brooklyn Bureau reported that he was surprised and humbled by the gift.
 Readers were particularly moved by the plight of Essence Griffin, 8, abandoned by her mother and cared for by her terminally ill grandmother. Essence had repeated kindergarten once and was in danger of slipping behind further. After reading her story, Barnes and Noble Corporate Communications donated a $500 gift card for new books. 
 An elementary school teacher in Binghamton pledged to send books and art supplies, and a professor from Rockland County pledged money. 
 Suman Rai, a pro-democracy organizer in Nepal, was driven out of his country by sword-wielding Maoists who tried to persuade him to join their cause. His wife, Saraswati, and 4-year-old daughter, Fortune, remained behind. Unrelated to his story being told in The New York Times, but still a welcome development, they have since received approval to come to the United States. Saraswati and Fortune arrived on Feb. 13. 
 Despite the second year of an economic downturn that has led to double-digit unemployment and shuttered storefronts from the Bronx to Madison Avenue, Neediest Cases articles attracted $6,280,242 in donations through Feb. 9. However, that was significantly less than last year's campaign, which netted $6,964,031 . This year, 10,428 readers donated, 400 fewer than last year. 
 In the 98 years that the Neediest Cases Fund has operated, it has taken in a total of $182,196,757 from 1,085,957 gifts, ranging from just a few dollars to pledges of $100,000. 
 Wall Street continued its 19-year-old tradition of giving. Citibank and Goldman Sachs raised a combined total of $157,963.26 for the fund, through interoffice weight-loss contests, dress-down days and bake sales. That was a $17,257 increase from last year. This was particularly heartening news for the financial sector; last year, the first of the financial crisis, saw a $40,000 drop-off in contributions compared with the year before. 
 But Amanda Tobin, a second-year analyst in risk management at Goldman Sachs, speculated that the industry might be recovering.
 ''Things are looking up. I'm optimistic,'' she said at a meeting at The New York Times building this month when she dropped off the check. 
 The New York Times Company Foundation will make up the shortfall in donations -- average annual totals for the last decade were closer to $8 million -- by drawing down $6 million from the Neediest Cases Fund endowment. This is an unusually large amount -- typically, the endowment augments the fund with $1 million annually. 
 ''This fund, of all funds, should be countercyclical,'' said Jack Rosenthal, the departing president of The Times Company Foundation. ''If you're not going to use these funds when people are really hurting, when are you going to use them?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wayne Knight, who was badly hurt at work, got help with back rent and a hospital debt.
Telmo Cerezo needed help to afford business attire for job interviews. But his real goal was a job itself. He got that, too. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Essence Griffin, 8, with her terminally ill grandmother, Vivian, received a $500 gift card for books. Suman Rai, a pro-democracy organizer in Nepal, has been joined in the United States by his wife, Saraswati, and 4-year-old daughter, Fortune. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PAUL TAGGART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND 2009-10: The Neediest Cases Fund invests contributions of $100,000 or more from trusts and estates in an endowment. The income, recently more than $1 million a year, goes into the next year's campaign. These are the trusts and estates that donated to the fund during this year's campaign. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (88%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ACADEMIC TESTING (63%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (63%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NEPAL (59%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



560 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Play It Again, Broadway, And Again

BYLINE: By STUART MILLER

 BODY:
TODD HAIMES, the Roundabout Theater Company's artistic director, was in London in 2008 when a producer invited him to a revival of ''La Cage aux Folles.'' Having seen the 2004 Broadway revival, Mr. Haimes went only out of a sense of duty. ''There was just no reason to see it again,'' he recalls thinking. ''But by the end of the show I was crying, and I said: 'I understand why they're redoing it. This deserves to be seen.' ''
 That ''La Cage,'' with its original London star, Douglas Hodge, and the Hollywood addition of Kelsey Grammer, will come to Broadway this spring, a commercial production sharing the spotlight with other familiar titles that now cycle through more frequently. In recent years ''Gypsy,'' ''Grease,'' ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof,'' ''A Moon for the Misbegotten'' and ''Hedda Gabler'' have been resurrected less then a decade after the previous Broadway production concluded. ''Les Miserables'' was brought back just three years after closing. 
 This season ''Ragtime'' returned, a decade after the original closed, as did ''A View From the Bridge,'' last on Broadway 12 years ago, and ''Present Laughter'' at the Roundabout, absent for 13 years. Still to come are ''Collected Stories,'' Manhattan Theater Club's Broadway redo of a play it staged Off Broadway 13 years ago (followed a year later by another Off Broadway production) and the Roundabout's Off Broadway take on ''The Glass Menagerie,'' just five years after a Broadway run. 
 There is an intrinsic, even vital artistic motivation for repeating modern classics, argued Andre Bishop, the artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater. ''It's a good thing to keep American literature alive,'' he said. ''Characters that are iconic are forever interesting.''
 Theatrical producers have varied reasons for mounting revivals. For starters they fill a void. ''One reason the wait time is getting shorter is that there are fewer and fewer great plays,'' said Sonia Friedman, the London-based producer of ''La Cage.'' ''Many plays written in the last 10 to 15 years are on a smaller scale or too tied in to the zeitgeist.''
 Anthony LaPaglia, who won a Tony Award in the last ''View From the Bridge'' and stars this spring in ''Lend Me a Tenor'' (previously on Broadway 20 years ago), concurred: ''The talent pool is very thin, the generations of writers who stayed with theater has passed. Now they get the call for Hollywood and are gone.'' 
 Soaring costs also prompt producers to mimic Hollywood's penchant for familiar titles. They can't create sequels -- ''Death of a Salesman 2: Willy's Return'' and ''The Iceman Cometh ... Back'' just wouldn't work -- so they recycle revivals. ''The economics of mounting shows leads to a fear of something new,'' said Max Cooper, who has been a producer for revivals of ''Ragtime,'' ''Brighton Beach Memoirs'' and two ''Moon for the Misbegottens.'' 
 Movie stars, now an integral factor for many Broadway shows, also prefer the safety of proven vehicles, Mr. Haimes noted. (Most producers say that if George Clooney, Harrison Ford or Meryl Streep wanted to star in a show, even if a previous production had closed a year earlier, they would find investors.) Tom Viertel, a producer of the most recent ''Gypsy'' on Broadway, said limited runs of play revivals with major stars can recoup an investment, while musicals can cost $8 million and need a longer run and a deeper tourist audience. Still, he acknowledged, ''the calculus is subjective -- it depends on how much you love the project.'' 
 The most recent ''Gypsy'' began as part of City Center's Encores! series. Mr. Viertel said he and his partners had first hoped to take the production to London, where ''Gypsy'' had not been seen for years. ''But we loved it so much, and the previous 'Gypsy' on Broadway had very mixed results, so we said, 'Let's just do it and let people here have a chance to see it.' ''
 Other revivals begin with the stars. Mr. Haimes said he wanted to bring Victor Garber back to Broadway, and ''Present Laughter'' seemed the ideal choice. With ''Glass Menagerie,'' Mr. Haimes said, ''we're not doing it because it hasn't been done before, it's being done for Judith Ivey,'' whose performance as the matriarch Amanda Wingfield earned accolades in a production last year at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven.
 The latest ''Lend Me a Tenor'' began with Stanley Tucci's desire to direct a play, said Matthew Rego, a partner in the Araca Group, the lead producer. ''A View From the Bridge'' also started with the director. Gregory Mosher had read the script but had never seen it, which helped, Mr. Mosher said. ''I'm not directing based on what some scholar has written or as part of a long line of Broadway productions,'' he said. ''I'm just directing what is on the page.'' 
 The first revival after an original production can be the hardest. Ms. Friedman said that British actors for a production of Tom Stoppard's ''Arcadia'' she hopes to bring to Broadway next year were intimidated by memories of performances by Rufus Sewell, Bill Nighy and others 17 years earlier. ''We had quite a hard time convincing the actors because of the ghosts that haunted it.''
 The question with each revival is simple: How long is too short? 
 ''There is no science to it,'' said Stuart Thompson, a producer of ''A View From the Bridge.'' ''It's a matter of timing but also the right ingredients.'' The casting of Scarlett Johansson added fuel for the box office this time, but had Mr. Mosher come to him with Liev Schreiber on board several years closer to the previous revival, in 1997, ''I might have thought for a second, but now I didn't even have to think about it,'' Mr. Thompson said. He added, ''If it was a different director or different cast, it might not have felt right to me.''
 Mr. LaPaglia recalled that the 1997 ''View From a Bridge'' nearly went to London, but Michael Gambon's performance in the same role from a decade earlier was considered too recent. 
 Mr. Haimes suggested that there was a new generation of theatergoers every 15 years. Mr. Mosher said 12 years was safe. Mr. LaPaglia, Mr. Rego and Ms. Friedman each chose 10 years, though they all said it's a rule meant to be broken, and Ms. Friedman cited ''La Cage'' as an example. 
 Harvey Fierstein, who wrote the book for ''La Cage,'' said the previous production shouldn't even count. ''It was well timed but not well conceived,'' he asserted. He praised the new version from the Menier Chocolate Factory, a source of previous Broadway hits, as having the ''fresher view the show needed.'' 
 But the 2008 ''Gypsy'' may provide a cautionary tale. It garnered stronger reviews than the 2003 revival, yet like its predecessor never found an audience and lost money. ''The previous production loomed over the project from beginning to end,'' acknowledged Mr. Viertel, whose current show, ''A Little Night Music,'' was last on Broadway 35 years ago. ''With pricey tickets, people say, 'I just saw that show' and weren't compelled to go back.'' 
 Many people have a revival wish list for when the time is right. For Mr. LaPaglia, it's ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?,'' which was just on Broadway in 2005. For Ms. Friedman, it's Jez Butterworth's ''Mojo'' (produced off Broadway in 1997) and Patrick Marber's ''Closer'' (on Broadway in 1999). 
 But others, like Mr. Thompson and Mr. Haimes, keep their list secret. ''There are some I have to wait three or four years until the timing is perfect,'' Mr. Haimes said. ''I'm not going to say which ones because someone else will do them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ragtime 2000 and 2009: Top right, cast members of the Broadway musical ''Ragtime'' in 2000. Bottom right, the ''Ragtime'' company in last year's production. Theatrical producers say that Broadway revivals are keeping modern classics and characters alive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL COOPER/''RAGTIME''
SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Present Laughter 1996 and 2010: Below left, Frank Langella and Allison Janney in the 1996 production of Noel Coward's ''Present Laughter.'' Below right, Victor Garber and Holley Fain in the current Roundabout Theater Company revival. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A View From the Bridge 1997 and 2010: Bottom left, Brittany Murphy and Anthony LaPaglia in the 1997 revival of ''A View From the Bridge.'' Bottom right, Jessica Hecht, Scarlett Johansson and Liev Schreiber in the current production at the Cort Theater. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); WRITERS (69%); LITERATURE (61%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (61%)

COMPANY: GLASS MENAGERIE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (53%)

PERSON: SCARLETT JOHANSSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



561 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 189 words

BYLINE: By VIVIAN TOY. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Web Travel Tycoon
 Homes In on SoHo
A SILICON VALLEY mogul is staking a claim in SoHo.
 Holger Bartel, the chief executive of Travelzoo.com, just bought a penthouse apartment for $4.8 million at the SoHo Mews, a new building designed by Charles Gwathmey at 311 West Broadway. 
 Travelzoo offers travel deals from around the world. Mr. Bartel became chief executive in 2008, taking over from his brother, Ralph, who founded the company in 1998.
 Apartments at SoHo Mews first came on the market in 2007 when the building was under construction, then hit a bumpy patch during the recession. Several buyers filed complaints to try to get out of their deals, but the attorney general's office sided with the developer in several cases, and other buyers decided to settle. 
 If Mr. Bartel's apartment is any indication, the financial crisis has also helped bring on some heavy discounting at the building. His two-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath penthouse had an original asking price of $5.965 million, but he paid nearly 20 percent less. 
 The apartment has a fireplace, three exposures and a 1,027-square-foot terrace with an outdoor spa tub. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (54%)

COMPANY: TRAVELZOO INC (58%)

TICKER: TZOO (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (58%); SIC7313 RADIO, TELEVISION, & PUBLISHERS' ADVERTISING REPRESENTATIVES (58%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



562 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE NEW POOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2719 words

HEADLINE: Despite Signs of Recovery, Chronic Joblessness Rises

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

DATELINE: BUENA PARK, Calif. 

 BODY:
Even as the American economy shows tentative signs of a rebound, the human toll of the recession continues to mount, with millions of Americans remaining out of work, out of savings and nearing the end of their unemployment benefits. 
 Economists fear that the nascent recovery will leave more people behind than in past recessions, failing to create jobs in sufficient numbers to absorb the record-setting ranks of the long-term unemployed.
 Call them the new poor: people long accustomed to the comforts of middle-class life who are now relying on public assistance for the first time in their lives -- potentially for years to come. 
 Yet the social safety net is already showing severe strains. Roughly 2.7 million jobless people will lose their unemployment check before the end of April unless Congress approves the Obama administration's proposal to extend the payments, according to the Labor Department. 
 Here in Southern California, Jean Eisen has been without work since she lost her job selling beauty salon equipment more than two years ago. In the several months she has endured with neither a paycheck nor an unemployment check, she has relied on local food banks for her groceries. 
 She has learned to live without the prescription medications she is supposed to take for high blood pressure and cholesterol. She has become effusively religious -- an unexpected turn for this onetime standup comic with X-rated material -- finding in Christianity her only form of health insurance.
 ''I pray for healing,'' says Ms. Eisen, 57. ''When you've got nothing, you've got to go with what you know.''
 Warm, outgoing and prone to the positive, Ms. Eisen has worked much of her life. Now, she is one of 6.3 million Americans who have been unemployed for six months or longer, the largest number since the government began keeping track in 1948. That is more than double the toll in the next-worst period, in the early 1980s. 
 Men have suffered the largest numbers of job losses in this recession. But Ms. Eisen has the unfortunate distinction of being among a group -- women from 45 to 64 years of age -- whose long-term unemployment rate has grown rapidly.
 In 1983, after a deep recession, women in that range made up only 7 percent of those who had been out of work for six months or longer, according to the Labor Department. Last year, they made up 14 percent.
 Twice, Ms. Eisen exhausted her unemployment benefits before her check was restored by a federal extension. Last week, her check ran out again. She and her husband now settle their bills with only his $1,595 monthly disability check. The rent on their apartment is $1,380.
 ''We're looking at the very real possibility of being homeless,'' she said.
 Every downturn pushes some people out of the middle class before the economy resumes expanding. Most recover. Many prosper. But some economists worry that this time could be different. An unusual constellation of forces -- some embedded in the modern-day economy, others unique to this wrenching recession -- might make it especially difficult for those out of work to find their way back to their middle-class lives. 
 Labor experts say the economy needs 100,000 new jobs a month just to absorb entrants to the labor force. With more than 15 million people officially jobless, even a vigorous recovery is likely to leave an enormous number out of work for years. 
 Some labor experts note that severe economic downturns are generally followed by powerful expansions, suggesting that aggressive hiring will soon resume. But doubts remain about whether such hiring can last long enough to absorb anywhere close to the millions of unemployed. 
 A New Scarcity of Jobs
 Some labor experts say the basic functioning of the American economy has changed in ways that make jobs scarce -- particularly for older, less-educated people like Ms. Eisen, who has only a high school diploma. 
 Large companies are increasingly owned by institutional investors who crave swift profits, a feat often achieved by cutting payroll. The declining influence of unions has made it easier for employers to shift work to part-time and temporary employees. Factory work and even white-collar jobs have moved in recent years to low-cost countries in Asia and Latin America. Automation has helped manufacturing cut 5.6 million jobs since 2000 -- the sort of jobs that once provided lower-skilled workers with middle-class paychecks.
 ''American business is about maximizing shareholder value,'' said Allen Sinai, chief global economist at the research firm Decision Economics. ''You basically don't want workers. You hire less, and you try to find capital equipment to replace them.''
 During periods of American economic expansion in the 1950s, '60s and '70s, the number of private-sector jobs increased about 3.5 percent a year, according to an analysis of Labor Department data by Lakshman Achuthan, managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute, a research firm. During expansions in the 1980s and '90s, jobs grew just 2.4 percent annually. And during the last decade, job growth fell to 0.9 percent annually.
 ''The pace of job growth has been getting weaker in each expansion,'' Mr. Achuthan said. ''There is no indication that this pattern is about to change.''
 Before 1990, it took an average of 21 months for the economy to regain the jobs shed during a recession, according to an analysis of Labor Department data by the National Employment Law Project and the Economic Policy Institute, a labor-oriented research group in Washington. 
 After the recessions in 1990 and in 2001, 31 and 46 months passed before employment returned to its previous peaks. The economy was growing, but companies remained conservative in their hiring.
 Some 34 million people were hired into new and existing private-sector jobs in 2000, at the tail end of an expansion, according to Labor Department data. A year later, in the midst of recession, hiring had fallen off to 31.6 million. And as late as 2003, with the economy again growing, hiring in the private sector continued to slip, to 29.8 million. 
 It was a jobless recovery: Business was picking up, but it simply did not translate into more work. This time, hiring may be especially subdued, labor economists say.
 Traditionally, three sectors have led the way out of recession: automobiles, home building and banking. But auto companies have been shrinking because strapped households have less buying power. Home building is limited by fears about a glut of foreclosed properties. Banking is expanding, but this seems largely a function of government support that is being withdrawn.
 At the same time, the continued bite of the financial crisis has crimped the flow of money to small businesses and new ventures, which tend to be major sources of new jobs. 
 All of which helps explain why Ms. Eisen -- who has never before struggled to find work -- feels a familiar pain each time she scans job listings on her computer: There are positions in health care, most requiring experience she lacks. Office jobs demand familiarity with software she has never used. Jobs at fast food restaurants are mostly secured by young people and immigrants.
 If, as Mr. Sinai expects, the economy again expands without adding many jobs, millions of people like Ms. Eisen will be dependent on an unemployment insurance already being severely tested. 
 ''The system was ill prepared for the reality of long-term unemployment,'' said Maurice Emsellem, a policy director for the National Employment Law Project. ''Now, you add a severe recession, and you have created a crisis of historic proportions.''
 Fewer Protections
 Some poverty experts say the broader social safety net is not up to cushioning the impact of the worst downturn since the Great Depression. Social services are less extensive than during the last period of double-digit unemployment, in the early 1980s.
 On average, only two-thirds of unemployed people received state-provided unemployment checks last year, according to the Labor Department. The rest either exhausted their benefits, fell short of requirements or did not apply.
 ''You have very large sets of people who have no social protections,'' said Randy Albelda, an economist at the University of Massachusetts in Boston. ''They are landing in this netherworld.''
 When Ms. Eisen and her husband, Jeff, applied for food stamps, they were turned away for having too much monthly income. The cutoff was $1,570 a month -- $25 less than her husband's disability check.
 Reforms in the mid-1990s imposed time limits on cash assistance for poor single mothers, a change predicated on the assumption that women would trade welfare checks for paychecks. 
 Yet as jobs have become harder to get, so has welfare: as of 2006, 44 states cut off anyone with a household income totaling 75 percent of the poverty level -- then limited to $1,383 a month for a family of three -- according to an analysis by Ms. Albelda.
 ''We have a work-based safety net without any work,'' said Timothy M. Smeeding, director of the Institute for Research on Poverty at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. ''People with more education and skills will probably figure something out once the economy picks up. It's the ones with less education and skills: that's the new poor.''
 Here in Orange County, the expanse of suburbia stretching south from Los Angeles, long-term unemployment reaches even those who once had six-figure salaries. A center of the national mortgage industry, the area prospered in the real estate boom and suffered with the bust.
 Until she was laid off two years ago, Janine Booth, 41, brought home roughly $10,000 a month in commissions from her job selling electronics to retailers. A single mother of three, she has been living lately on $2,000 a month in child support and about $450 a week in unemployment insurance -- a stream of checks that ran out last week.
 For Ms. Booth, work has been a constant since her teenage years, when she cleaned houses under pressure from her mother to earn pocket money. Today, Ms. Booth pays her $1,500 monthly mortgage with help from her mother, who is herself living off savings after being laid off.
 ''I don't want to take money from her,'' Ms. Booth said. ''I just want to find a job.''
 Ms. Booth, with a resume full of well-paid sales jobs, seems the sort of person who would have little difficulty getting work. Yet two years of looking have yielded little but anxiety. 
 She sends out dozens of resumes a week and rarely hears back. She responds to online ads, only to learn they are seeking operators for telephone sex lines or people willing to send mysterious packages from their homes.
 She spends weekdays in a classroom in Anaheim, in a state-financed training program that is supposed to land her a job in medical administration. Even if she does find a job, she will be lucky if it pays $15 an hour.
 ''What is going to happen?'' she asked plaintively. ''I worry about my kids. I just don't want them to think I'm a failure.''
 On a recent weekend, she was running errands with her 18-year-old son when they stopped at an A.T.M. and he saw her checking account balance: $50.
 ''He says, 'Is that all you have?' '' she recalled. '' 'Are we going to be O.K.?' ''
 Yes, she replied -- and not only for his benefit.
 ''I have to keep telling myself it's going to be O.K.,'' she said. ''Otherwise, I'd go into a deep depression.''
 Last week, she made up fliers advertising her eagerness to clean houses -- the same activity that provided her with spending money in high school, and now the only way she sees fit to provide for her kids. She plans to place the fliers on porches in some other neighborhood. 
 ''I don't want to clean my neighbors' houses,'' she said. ''I know I'm going to come out of this. There's no way I'm going to be homeless and poverty-stricken. But I am scared. I have a lot of sleepless nights.''
 For the Eisens, poverty is already here. In the two years Ms. Eisen has been without work, they have exhausted their savings of about $24,000. Their credit card balances have grown to $15,000.
 ''I don't know how we're still indoors,'' she said.
 Her 1994 Dodge Caravan broke down in January, leaving her to ask for rides to an employment center.
 She does not have the money to move to a cheaper apartment. 
 ''You have to have money for first and last month's rent, and to open utility accounts,'' she said.
 What she has is personality and presence -- two traits that used to seem enough. She narrates her life in a stream of self-deprecating wisecracks, her punch lines tinged with desperation.
 ''See that,'' she said, spotting a man dressed as the Statue of Liberty. Standing on a sidewalk, he waved at passing cars with a sign advertising a tax preparation business. ''That will be me next week. Do you think this guy ever thought he'd be doing this?''
 And yet, she would gladly do this. She would do nearly anything. 
 ''There are no bad jobs now,'' she says. ''Any job is a good job.'' 
 She has applied everywhere she can think of -- at offices, at gas stations. Nothing. 
 ''I'm being seen as a person who is no longer viable,'' she said. ''I'm chalking it up to my age and my weight. Blame it on your most prominent insecurity.''
 Two Incomes, Then None
 Ms. Eisen grew up poor, in Flatbush in Brooklyn. Her father was in maintenance. Her mother worked part time at a company that made window blinds.
 She married Jeff when she was 19, and they soon moved to California, where he had grown up. He worked in sales for a chemical company. They rented an apartment in Buena Park, a growing spread of houses filling out former orange groves. She stayed home and took care of their daughter.
 ''I never asked him how much he earned,'' Ms. Eisen said. ''I was of the mentality that the husband took care of everything. But we never wanted.''
 By the early 1980s, gas and rent strained their finances. So she took a job as a quality assurance clerk at a factory that made aircraft parts. It paid $13.50 an hour and had health insurance.
 When the company moved to Mexico in the early 1990s, Ms. Eisen quickly found a job at a travel agency. When online booking killed that business, she got the job at the beauty salon equipment company. It paid $13.25 an hour, with an annual bonus -- enough for presents under the Christmas tree. 
 But six years ago, her husband took a fall at work and then succumbed to various ailments -- diabetes, liver disease, high blood pressure -- leaving him confined to the couch. Not until 2008 did he secure his disability check.
 And now they find themselves in this desert of joblessness, her paycheck replaced by a $702 unemployment check every other week. She received 14 weeks of benefits after she lost her job, and then a seven-week extension. 
 For most of October through December 2008, she received nothing, as she waited for another extension. The checks came again, then ran out in September 2009. They were restored by an extension right before Christmas.
 Their daughter has back problems and is living on disability checks, making the church their ultimate safety net. 
 ''I never thought I'd be in the position where I had to go to a food bank,'' Ms. Eisen said. But there she is, standing in the parking lot of the Calvary Chapel church, chatting with a half-dozen women, all waiting to enter the Bread of Life Food Pantry.
 When her name is called, she steps into a windowless alcove, where a smiling woman hands her three bags of groceries: carrots, potatoes, bread, cheese and a hunk of frozen meat.
 ''Haven't we got a lot to be thankful for?'' Ms. Eisen asks. 
 For one thing, no pinto beans.
 ''I've got 10 bags of pinto beans,'' she says. ''And I have no clue how to cook a pinto bean.''
 Local job listings are just as mysterious. On a bulletin board at the county-financed ProPath Business and Career Services Center, many are written in jargon hinting of accounting or computers.
 ''Nothing I'm qualified for,'' Ms. Eisen says. ''When you can't define what it is, that's a pretty good indication.''
 Her counselor has a couple of possibilities -- a cashier at a supermarket and a night desk job at a motel.
 ''I'll e-mail them,'' Ms. Eisen promises. ''I'll tell them what a shining example of humanity I am.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JEAN EISEN, who became unemployed more than two years ago (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) CHARTS: Total long-term unemployed: As of January, about 6.3 million people had been out of work for longer than six months. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A1)
 Long-Term Unemployment: A demographic profile of the long-term unemployed, meaning people who have been out of work for longer than six months. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); JOB CREATION (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); APPROVALS (68%); RELIGION (65%); HYPERTENSION (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (51%); FOOD CHARITIES (51%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



563 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; HEADS UP; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: A Revival in Istanbul

BYLINE: By YIGAL SCHLEIFER

 BODY:
UNTIL only recently, the 90-year-old Deniz Palas (Sea Palace in Turkish) in Istanbul's Sishane neighborhood was a perfect symbol of the city's faded glory. Originally a grand apartment building that catered to the area's once large Greek-speaking community, the edifice -- and the surrounding neighborhood -- slowly slid into a state of decay over the decades, as political and economic turbulence drove the area's original residents away. Now, though, the building symbolizes nothing less than the city's cultural resurgence.
 In January, after a three-year, $14 million restoration, the Deniz Palas reopened as the headquarters of the Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts, or IKSV (Sadi Konuralp Caddesi No. 5, Sishane; 90-212-334-0700; iksv.org), a nonprofit group that organizes the Istanbul Biennial and the city's annual film and jazz festivals. 
 The building is more than just office space, though, with various hues of the cultural spectrum represented. On the ground floor is a cafe, as well as a shop showcasing the work of both established and up-and-coming Turkish designers. Above that is an intimate performance hall, called Salon, that already has a multifaceted, globe-hopping program in place. And on the top floor is a stylish restaurant called simply X, serving updated takes on classic Turkish cuisine, with a commanding view of the Golden Horn and the historic neighborhoods that run along it. (A small in-house museum dedicated to the late diva Leyla Gencer, Turkey's Maria Callas, is also in the works.)
 The building's opening night was Jan. 16, which coincided with celebrations in honor of Istanbul's being named a European Capital of Culture for 2010 and featured a performance by the Bad Plus, a New York-based progressive jazz band.
 The show drew a mix of middle-aged jazz aficionados and 20-something sophisticates, among them Asli Han, a 21-year-old Istanbulite with bleached blond hair and a pierced tongue back home for a visit from Boston, where she is studying drumming at the Berklee College of Music.
 ''The building is modernized, but still has a lot of history -- and there's a punk-jazz band playing inside,'' said Ms. Han, looking around the elegant lobby of the Deniz, its previously grimy marble stairs and balustrades now gleaming. ''We have our history, but we're also in touch with Europe and with America.'' 
 And the IKSV's new home is not alone in the city's cultural revival. Santral Istanbul, an Ottoman-era power plant turned into a cutting-edge arts center, opened its doors in 2007. And not far from the Deniz Palas, another elegant early 20th-century building has recently been renovated by the Borusan Center for Culture and Arts, another prominent foundation, to be used mostly as a classical music venue. 
 ''Forty years ago, Istanbul was so devoid of cultural life that every concert was a major event,'' said Talat Halman, who became Turkey's first minister of culture in 1971 and is now the chairman of IKSV's board of trustees. ''There is so much going on now. We're a global metropolis.''
 Still, at least based on the response of the enthusiastic audience at the IKSV's opening night, it would appear that residents want more.
 ''This building is a kind of first step,'' said Sinan Gul, a 36-year-old industrial engineer who lives on the outskirts of the sprawling city. ''But we really need much more than this one. We are hungry for things like this. We need cultural activity like this every single day. Why not? We deserve it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Deniz Palas, new home of the Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts, with its neon chandelier. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN DRAKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); FESTIVALS (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (97%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) TURKEY (98%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



564 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: The Lottery In Winter

BYLINE: By LAN SAMANTHA CHANG. 
Lan Samantha Chang is the director of the Iowa Writers' Workshop and the author of the forthcoming novel ''All Is Forgotten, Nothing Is Lost.''

DATELINE: Iowa City 

 BODY:
 IT'S snowing outside the Johnson County Crisis Center. A group of people stand in line, waiting to put in their names for the emergency assistance lottery that is held here every Monday. It's too cold to talk much and the falling snow muffles their words. But on this winter morning, it's possible to hear the sound of our town's economy shrinking.
 ''They can't turn it off if you pay part of it,'' a woman murmurs to the woman next to her. 
 ''That's just with heat,'' a man says. ''With water they can turn it off.''
 At 11 a.m., Elizabeth Haas, the director of the Crisis Center, comes outside to take names. Elizabeth, a quiet, blue-eyed woman, speaks to each person in line. She asks each to show her a past-due bill. Then she hands out her card and tells him to call or come back between noon and 2 p.m.
 At noon, 25 names are drawn from a small red basket. Volunteers interview the winners and call the creditor, usually a landlord or a utility company, to arrange payment of up to $100 toward the bill. No further requirements, no red tape. The Crisis Center, which is financed by the county, humanitarian agencies and generous donors, designed the lottery to get people out of a pinch. It's understood that no one would ask for help unless he needed it.
 Most Iowans like to put the best face on things. When you ask how they're doing, they usually say, ''Just fine.''
 But more than two years into the recession, things in our area are not looking up. Our economy never hit rock-bottom as in other parts of the country. The local unemployment rate is still lower than the national average. But as the national economy shows signs of hope with the approach of spring, our area is slow to respond to change.
 State revenues are down even more sharply than expected. The legislature has made staggering cuts to the budget, and there's talk of more. In our state university town, this means construction projects stalled or halted. Closing restaurants and businesses. Fewer hours of seasonal and part-time work at factories, big-box stores and even fast-food places. Many workers in our town are struggling this winter. Some are trying to get by on half as many hours as usual.
 In the past year, according to Beth Ritter Ruback, the director of communications and fund development at the Crisis Center, visits to the Food Bank and Emergency Assistance program have grown 25 percent. Each week, there are new faces at the center, and many clients struggled to get by for months before coming for help.
 Things are especially bad at the beginning of the month, when rent is due, and the line for the lottery can number 40 or even 50. Those whose names are not chosen are encouraged to return, and no one leaves without a bag of food.
 ''I see people on a really bad day,'' said Mary Campbell, a Crisis Center volunteer who interviews lottery entrants. ''This is a bad day for them, the day when they say, 'I can't make it; I have to ask for help.' A lot of us don't want to ask.''
 According to Mary, the recent frigid weather has brought newcomers to the center. Many can't make heating bills. They need coats. Mary offers clothing vouchers and referrals to a heating assistance program. 
 But there are many who work just enough hours to make them ineligible for such programs. The recession has left them out in the cold. To these people, help with a heating bill can provide protection against the cruelty of winter as well as the long cold days of our economic downturn. 
 ''When I first started at the center in 2004, it was first come first serve,'' Elizabeth said. ''People would come Monday and line up outside the door at 11. Then the lines grew longer and we had to start turning some away. People started coming earlier and earlier. They'd be stationed out there at 8 a.m. This is fine on a nice summery day.''
 Kathy is a 48-year-old mother of two. Both of her sons were laid off by a factory in a nearby town. Kathy, a forklift operator, has not worked regularly since October 2008. In recent months, she has been getting by with aid from a program at the Department of Human Services, but there was a time last spring when she turned to the lottery.
 ''I needed to pay my light bill,'' she said. ''My bill is $140 a month and I hadn't paid in two months. They were going to shut off my lights. I'm homebound now, and if I lost my lights it would be really devastating.
 ''I really needed it. To get any kind of help in these times is wonderful. I felt like I'd won a million bucks.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: HOME ECONOMICS
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY LILLI CARRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (66%); FAST FOOD (64%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (62%); RESTAURANTS (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (55%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); RETAILERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



565 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DVDS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: In the Depression, A Couple Undone

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
 THERE are few American films as subtle, moving and bursting with human truth as Leo McCarey's ''Make Way for Tomorrow'' (1937), and few that have been as unjustly forgotten. Never given a home video release in America, the film this week becomes the 505th DVD in the Criterion Collection, which is to say, it has finally gained its place in the canon. 
 ''Make Way for Tomorrow'' has never been an easy sell. Although it is a romance as intense as McCarey's film ''An Affair to Remember'' (1957) and has moments as brilliantly funny as ''The Awful Truth'' (1937), it does not have the seductive presence of Cary Grant. Its leading man is Victor Moore, then 61, a Broadway star from the turn of the century who never quite conquered the movies; his co-star is Beulah Bondi, a 49-year-old character actress who specialized in forbidding society matrons. They play characters in their late 60s or early 70s: Barkley Cooper and his wife, Lucy, the parents of five adult children, all of whom have long left home. 
 Now Bark and Lucy are about to leave their little suburban cottage as well. It is 1937, and the so-called Roosevelt Recession has settled in, setting off a second wave of bankruptcies and foreclosures. Retired for several years, Bark is no longer able to meet his payments, and the bank is taking their house. 
 Their children don't have the room or the resources to take them both in, so the family agrees on a purely temporary measure: Lucy will live in New York City with her oldest son, George (Thomas Mitchell); his wife, Anita (Fay Bainter); and their teenage daughter, Rhoda (Barbara Read). Bark will live in a small town 300 miles from the city, with his daughter Cora (Elisabeth Risdon) and her unemployed husband, Bill (Ralph Remley). The solution seems solid enough, except, as Bark points out, it has never worked for anyone before. 
 From his first silent shorts McCarey showed himself an acute observer of the inner workings of couples -- of the bonds of complicity and collaboration that develop between two people (as in McCarey's splendid series of Laurel and Hardy films) as well as the network of resentments and insecurities that bind them just as closely on a less conscious level (as in the domestic comedies McCarey made with Charley Chase). With ''Make Way for Tomorrow'' McCarey seriously contemplates for the first time the undoing of a couple, and the prospect brings out something new in him and rare in American movies: an acknowledgment that disappointment and failure are not only possible, but also make up the better part of human experience.
 The French critic Jacques Lourcelles has described ''Make Way for Tomorrow'' as ''a masterpiece of the cinema of cruelty, surpassing in its almost unbearable intensity the best works of the greatest specialists in the genre (for example, Bunuel).'' But this is a clear-eyed cruelty, without sadism, developed as a controlled stylistic alternative to the unbridled pathos with which the cinema habitually treats the subject of old age. 
 The very model of classical Hollywood's ''invisible'' filmmakers, McCarey doesn't work through grand gestures and bold compositions, but rather through carefully judged ellipses and unobtrusive metaphors. Structurally, the film is a marvel of efficiency and expressiveness. After the opening scene that lays out the situation, McCarey jumps ahead by several weeks, to find Lucy living tensely with George's family on Riverside Drive and Bark sleeping on his daughter's couch in the country. They will not be reunited in the same frame until the film's final 30 minutes, a crescendo of rising emotion that ends with the couple's definitive separation. 
 In New York, Lucy discovers that she ''just won't fit in at all'' with her son's striving, middle-class family, no more than the heavy old rocking chair (with just the right amount of squeak in its springs) that she has brought with her from home. Bark spends his time at a country store, conversing with the proprietor, Mr. Rubens (Maurice Moscovitch), who has had the wisdom to set something aside for old age. McCarey carefully divides his sympathies in these scenes between the parents and their children. Lucy may be loving and responsible, but she is also judgmental and manipulative; the more easygoing Bark carries the comedy here (memorably torturing a young doctor), but without Lucy to manage him, he becomes infantile and helpless. There are no victims or villains, only people touched by circumstance. 
 Finally the children come up with the excuses needed to get rid of their cumbersome parents. Bark will be sent to California to live with another, never-seen daughter, ostensibly for reasons of health; Lucy will go to an old folks' home, where she'll have ''friends of her own age.'' Bark will have to come to New York to catch the train west, giving them one last day together.
 And here, McCarey does something amazing. As the two old people move through Midtown, retracing the course of their honeymoon trip 50 years before, the city seems to blossom for them. In a film so far dominated by petty acts of selfishness, they encounter a series of characters, all strangers (the first is even a car salesman), who treat them with kindness and generosity. 
 A film defined by close, cramped quarters and, for McCarey, an uncharacteristically restrained use of music, suddenly becomes spatially expansive and filled with melody. When the couple enter the lobby of the grand old hotel where they spent their wedding night, the manager treats them to a cocktail; when they take a spin on the dance floor, the orchestra leader obligingly shifts from a Latin tune to ''Let Me Call You Sweetheart.''
 When the time comes for their farewell at the station, the moment of grace is over. It has become devastatingly clear that no Hollywood miracle is going to occur, and Bark and Lucy say goodbye, holding back their feelings in hope of sparing each other. McCarey moves in for a medium close-up of Lucy as she watches Bark's train pull away, and the range of emotion that crosses her face, during this extended, wordless take, defies written description. Lucy looks down, up, and down again; the train, which we've seen moving in the soft-focus background behind her, is gone, leaving only an empty stillness. She turns, and starts to walk out of the frame. 
 And that is why I love the movies.
 (Criterion Collection, $29.95, not rated)
 ALSO OUT THIS WEEK
 THE BOX A young married couple (Cameron Diaz and James Marsden) are tempted by an offer from a mysterious stranger (Frank Langella): Push a button on a box, and they'll receive $1 million, with the catch that someone they don't know will die. Richard Kelly (''Southland Tales'') directed. Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times in November that the film was ''a serious work that insists on its own seriousness even when it edges toward the preposterous.'' (Warner Home Video, Blu-ray $35.99, standard definition $28.98, PG-13)
 EVERYBODY'S FINERobert De Niro stars as a widower who goes on a cross-country train trip to visit his far-flung, emotionally estranged children (Kate Beckinsale, Sam Rockwell, Drew Barrymore). Kirk Jones directed this remake of Giuseppe Tornatore's 1990 Italian film ''Stanno Tutti Bene.'' ''The queasiness produced by this sentimental weepie builds into a wave of nausea during its interminable finale,'' when the family ''reunites for Christmas, all lovey-dovey,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The Times in December. (Miramax, $29.99, PG-13)
 THE INFORMANT!Matt Damon as a corporate whistle-blower with some unexpected issues of his own, in a comedy directed by Steven Soderbergh from Kurt Eichenwald's nonfiction book. The exclamation point in the title and the score ''initially suggest that Mr. Soderbergh has put on his party hat and broken out the kazoo,'' Ms. Dargis wrote in The Times in September. ''Except that he isn't laughing, or at least not all the way through. The story he tells is too maddening for sustained mirth, so he kills the jokes, with a vengeance.'' (Warner Home Video, Blu-ray $35.99, standard definition $28.98, R) 
 MIDSOMER MURDERS: SET 14 Detective Chief Inspector Tom Barnaby (John Nettles) investigates four more cases in his rural English district, in episodes originally broadcast in Britain in 2007 and 2008. (Acorn Media, $49.99, not rated)
 THE SEPTEMBER ISSUE How the big fall issue of Vogue is assembled under the guidance of the editor, Anna Wintour, and creative director, Grace Coddington, in a documentary directed by R. J. Cutler. ''This entertaining, glib movie is about the maintenance of a brand that Ms. Wintour has brilliantly cultivated,'' Ms. Dargis wrote in The Times in August. (Lionsgate, $29.98, PG-13)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Victor Moore and Beulah Bondi play a long-married couple forced to live apart when they lose their home in Leo McCarey's drama ''Make Way for Tomorrow.'' (A22)
 Let me call you sweetheart: Beulah Bondi and Victor Moore play a married couple who dance in the grand old hotel where they spent their honeymoon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRITERION COLLECTION) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FORECLOSURE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); CELEBRITIES (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



566 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Ski Resorts Thrive, Despite Recession Pain

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
Even when the Olympics isn't shining a spotlight on it, skiing is a robust industry. Ski resorts in the United States have shown steady increases in revenue over the last five years, according to the research firm IbisWorld. 
 Even in 2009, as most industries were in a recessionary trough, ski resort revenue rose 2.3 percent from the year before, IbisWorld says. Revenue for 2010 is forecast to rise almost 6 percent, to $2.72 billion.
 The industry has consolidated in recent years, and some small resorts have been pushed out of business, or bought by larger ones, IbisWorld says. Two companies -- Intrawest and Vail Resorts -- now attract 51 percent of industry revenue. 
 Despite a positive outlook, the ski industry is vulnerable to forces it cannot control -- most notably the weather. One season of poor snowfall can take a big toll in the account books. And you can be sure that many an owner of a ski resort is wondering if climate change will affect the bottom line. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: SHARE OF 2009 REVENUE (Source: IbisWorld) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (93%); SKIING (91%); SKIING FACILITIES (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (87%)

COMPANY: VAIL RESORTS INC (90%)

TICKER: MTN (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (90%); NAICS713920 SKIING FACILITIES (90%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (90%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



567 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Our Low-Tech Tax Code

BYLINE: By HARVEY J. SHULMAN. 
Harvey J. Shulman, a tax lawyer, is the former general counsel of the National Association of Computer Consultant Businesses.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 NOTHING can excuse the murderous intentional plane crash into the Internal Revenue Services office in Austin, Tex., on Thursday. The rambling, profanity-filled suicide note that the pilot, Andrew Joseph Stack III, posted on the Web is an indication of his unbalanced state and the senselessness of the act. 
 In the days since the crash, people pondering Mr. Stack's unforgivable act have been surprised to find a reference in his note to an obscure federal tax law, Section 1706 of the 1986 tax act. Mr. Stack, a technology worker, claimed that the provision essentially declared him a ''criminal and non-citizen slave'' and ruined his career. 
 The story of Section 1706 is a curious one. Most American workers perform jobs as either employees or ''self-employed'' workers of a company -- that is, independent contractors. Yet the common-law test used by the I.R.S. to determine who is an actual employee is vague and unpredictable. The determination is often made years after a worker is hired, during an audit of the company. 
 If the I.R.S. determines that a self-employed worker should have been an employee, it imposes substantial back taxes, penalties and interest on the hiring company -- even if the self-employed worker fully paid his taxes. 
 That hazy situation led Congress in 1978 to adopt an alternative test -- the so-called ''safe haven'' rule codified under Section 530. Under this rule, if a company has a ''reasonable basis'' to treat a worker as self-employed, has filed I.R.S. Form 1099 to report its payment to the worker, and has consistently treated similar workers the same way, then the company would not be required to pay more taxes or withhold taxes from the worker's paychecks.
 Basically, the safe-haven rule provided commonsense relief from potentially devastating I.R.S. audits to companies that operated reasonably, consistently and in good faith.
 The technology industry used many self-employed workers in the 1980s. While in other industries, workers were forced to become self-employed by companies looking to avoid giving out benefits, in technology it was the professionals themselves who demanded contractor status. They were willing to forgo employer-provided benefits to maintain their independence and expand their businesses. 
 Many of them were not hired by the technology company they did work for, but by staffing firms that placed them at corporations as subcontractors. In passing Section 1706 in 1986, Congress singled out the programmers, engineers, analysts and many other technical workers by mandating that staffing firms no longer be protected by Section 530's safe haven. Soon enough, the I.R.S. began auditing staffing firms around the country, often subjecting their customers to questioning as well. 
 This caused an upheaval in the technology industry. Hundreds of high-tech firms, from Wall Street to Silicon Valley, stopped using self-employed workers. Tens of thousands of technology professionals who had formed their own one-person consulting businesses could no longer find work -- unless they agreed to abandon their enterprises and become payroll employees. 
 ''The immediate effect of these audits is to force individual programmers ... to abandon their dreams of getting rich off their high-technology skills,'' reported an article in The Times on Section 1706 more than a decade ago. ''But the broader impact is that small businesses started by one entrepreneur do not have a chance to grow into mighty enterprises that can create jobs and generate more taxes.''
 The rationale for passing Section 1706 was that it would recoup tax revenue that the government was losing from self-employed technology workers who were allegedly cheating when they filed. It was also claimed that few of these workers would qualify as self-employed under the common-law test, so the safe haven should be eliminated for them. 
 Over the past 20 years, there have been several studies dismissing the factual and legal grounds asserted for the rule, and more than 60 senators -- from Daniel Patrick Moynihan to Jesse Helms to Ted Kennedy -- have sought its repeal. 
 A Treasury Department study in 1991 also thoroughly undermined the justifications for the law. It found that tax compliance for technology professionals was actually among the highest of all self-employed workers and that Section 1706 probably raised no additional tax revenue and perhaps even resulted in losses, because self-employed workers did not enjoy as many tax-free benefits as employees. 
 Section 1706 is an example of how Congress enacted a discriminatory law that hurt thousands of technology consultants, their staffing firms and customers. And despite strong bipartisan efforts and unbiased studies supporting that law's repeal, it remains on the books. 
 Reform has gotten lost among the ''bigger issues'' like capital gains and estate tax reform, and the contractors and firms involved are not big-name, big-dollar political contributors. But they are the information workers who maintain America's innovation advantage in the global economy. Is continuing to limit their opportunities really something Congress should tolerate? 

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); SUICIDE (73%); TAX WITHHOLDING (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



568 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: My Life as a French Movie

BYLINE: By JENNIFER EGAN. 
Jennifer Egan's fifth work of fiction, ''A Visit From the Goon Squad,'' will be published in June.

 BODY:
EIGHT WHITE NIGHTS
 By Andre Aciman
 360 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $26
 A young woman introduces herself to a young man at a lavish party on Christmas Eve on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He is instantly smitten. The woman, Clara, is beautiful, forward, witty, adept at wordplay, often nasty. She has a transcendent singing voice. The narrator, whose name we never learn, is painfully self-aware, given to obsessively questioning his own motives and trying to discern Clara's to an extent that often leaves him paralyzed and mute. Will the two sleep together? Begin a relationship? Andre Aciman raises these questions in the first moments of ''Eight White Nights,'' his ambitious second novel, and keeps us guessing until the very last, which occurs eight nights later. 
 In the intervening 360 pages, Clara and the protagonist (whom she nicknames Oskar), busy themselves in various ways: they visit old friends of Clara's parents; have lunch in a restaurant; picnic on the rug of Oskar's apartment; attend screenings of Eric Rohmer's films at a local cinema that is holding a retrospective. But the action in ''Eight White Nights'' is largely perceptual; the novel narrates Oskar's struggle, from within the echo chamber of his mind, to analyze and master his interactions with Clara. At times, his agonies of double-think are hilariously recognizable, as in this pileup of self-scrutiny that occurs within minutes of their meeting: 
 ''Had she snubbed yet another one of my efforts to align my outlook to hers? Or, in my attempt to understand her in terms of myself, had I simply failed to hear what she was saying? Was I desperately trying to think she was like me so that she might be less of a stranger? Or was I trying to be like her to show we were closer than we seemed?''
 To usher readers into a book-length welter of cogitation is a gamble, of course; what's to keep us engaged? Aciman took a similar risk in his finely wrought first novel, ''Call Me by Your Name,'' in which a teenage boy becomes fixated on his parents' young male houseguest, who may or may not reciprocate his lust. That novel is driven by high-voltage sexual tension, and becomes an outright love story after the relationship is consummated halfway through. Here, there is neither consummation nor carnality -- in fact, there is barely a sense of Clara's physical presence beyond some mentions of her clavicle and wrists, and repeated assertions that she is beautiful. Moreover, her personality seems engineered to alienate: she is haughty (she tells Oskar that her doorman is ''faithful as a Doberman'' and is given to verbal and physical mockery of those around her), privileged (she drives a silver BMW and has no visible means of support) and wildly self-absorbed, with a penchant for discussing her previous boyfriend's hapless adoration and willingness to die for her. All of this Aciman apparently intends; when Clara muses, at the Christmas party, ''My life as a French movie -- there's an idea,'' the host tartly replies, ''French movies are about urbane Parisians, not dyspeptic Upper West Side Jews on antidepressants.'' 
 So . . . what is Aciman up to? ''Eight White Nights'' abounds with suggestive discussions of other works of art that seem meant to illuminate its purpose, ranging from an obscure musical form called Folias to the music of Handel, Beethoven and Bach. After listening raptly to one of Alexander Siloti's Bach transpositions, Oskar speculates: ''Art may be nothing more than the invention of cadence, a reasoning with chaos. It will use anything, just anything, to loop itself around us, and around us again, and around us once more till it finds its way in.'' Then there are Rohmer's films, which Oskar and Clara discuss in detail. And while their halting and awkward exchanges about their own romantic histories and prospects are overtly Rohmeresque, ''Eight White Nights'' is fundamentally a homage to another Frenchman, Marcel Proust, who is so present in its pages that he goes unmentioned. Not only is the novel awash in Proust's roomy sentences, extended metaphors and elegiac tone (not to mention his 100-page-long descriptions of dinner parties), but its preoccupations are also deeply Proustian: the unknowability of others; the distillation of experience into memory; the chasm between fantasy and reality; and, above all, the compulsive power of longing and its more optimistic cousin, anticipation. 
 Seen through a Proustian lens, Clara's worthiness of Oskar's love is no more relevant than the worthiness of Odette -- the superficial courtesan with whom Proust's protagonist Swann becomes obsessed. It is the fixation that is interesting: its qualities and textures, the impression it leaves in memory. Oskar himself is conscious of this. After leaving the Christmas party where he encountered Clara, he reflects, ''Perhaps all I wanted was to sit and think, and think of nothing, sink into myself, dream, find all things beautiful, and, as I'd never allowed myself to do during the entire evening, to long for her . . . because longing makes us who we are, makes us better than who we are, because longing fills the heart.'' 
 In moments, ''Eight White Nights'' succeeds at enveloping the reader in its wintry spell and imbuing present-day New York with a power of retrospect. Some of its strongest passages involve Oskar's recollections of his father, who brings to mind Aciman's own idiosyncratic family members as described in his colorful memoir, ''Out of Egypt.'' Oskar's father has recently died, and his absence forms an aching undertow throughout the novel. 
 But the overlay of Proustian nostalgia onto modern New York can also feel mannered and artificial -- a substitute for some more organic voice that Aciman never quite found. Here is Oskar, having met Clara only moments before and already slipping into a reverie of imagining himself years later, without her: ''I suddenly stopped myself, knowing, by an inverse logic familiar to superstitious people, that the very foretaste of sorrows to come presumed a degree of joy beforehand and would no doubt stand in the way of the very joy I was reluctant to consider for fear of forfeiting it. I felt no different than a castaway who, on glimpsing a sailboat from a high perch on his deserted island, omits to light a pyre because he's spied too many such ships before and doesn't want his hopes dashed again. But then, on urging himself to light a fire just the same, he begins to have second thoughts about the strangers on board who could prove more dangerous than the pythons and Komodo dragons he's learned to live among.'' 
 These are the thoughts of a 28-year-old male of this century, hot for a woman he's just met? Aciman can't be serious. And he isn't, exactly -- there is plenty of humor in ''Eight White Nights,'' my favorite example being his description of Oskar consuming an excruciatingly spicy meatball Clara hands him at the party. But the world of this novel is detached from reality, creating a vacuum around Oskar and Clara that gradually saps their story of life. In the vaguely aristocratic, Europe-inflected New York of ''Eight White Nights,'' there is no mention of war, of financial trouble, of a world in crisis; there are just Oskar and Clara and their friends, all apparently without real-life worries to speak of, all riveted to the question of whether these two will have sex. Here, unfortunately, Aciman parts company with Proust; for all the interiority of ''In Search of Lost Time,'' it is also a novel of war and politics and anti-Semitism, of economics and social class. By sealing off these portals to the real world, Aciman does more than deprive young Oskar and Clara of a meaningful context -- he deprives himself of a perspective from which to cast their shallowness and self-important gravitas as features of youth in a particular culture at a particular time. 
 We're left with no choice but to take them at face value. ''We laugh,'' Oskar reports. ''We know why we laugh. We pretend not to know. Realize we're both pretending. Standard fare. I love it. Aren't we so very, very clever.'' For all the erudition and sensuous writing Aciman brings to his project, even he cannot master the impossible task of making us think so.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WOMEN (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); RESTAURANTS (67%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

TITLE: Eight White Nights (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



569 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: THE WEEK AHEAD FEB. 21--FEB. 27

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
Art
 Who's in? Who's out? There are few things the New York art world likes bickering about more than the WHITNEY BIENNIAL. This year's version, organized by Francesco Bonami, will examine the impact that the ups and downs of the last two years -- from the global financial collapse to the Iraq war -- have had on the work of 55 artists. The show will include familiar faces like George Condo, Ellen Gallagher, Piotr Ulanski and Charles Ray. Among the most unexpected works are a series of disturbing photographs by Stephanie Sinclair, ''Self-Immolation Afghanistan: A Cry for Help,'' and Nina Berman's collection of interviews and photos with an Iraq war veteran. Feb. 23 through May 30, whitney.org. 
 Art and politics also mix in ''WILLIAM KENTRIDGE: FIVE THEMES,'' at the Museum of Modern Art. Mr. Kentridge, a filmmaker and artist who was born in South Africa in 1955, has examined the emotional and psychological costs of apartheid and its aftermath. Spanning the entire arc of his career, the show includes his animated films, charcoal drawings, prints, sculpture and stage designs for Dmitri Shostakovich's ''Nose,'' which will be in repertory at the Metropolitan Opera in March. Feb. 24 through May 17, moma.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephanie Sinclair's series ''Self-Immolation in Afghanistan: A Cry for Help'' is among the works in this year's Whitney Biennial. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLLECTION OF THE ARTIST/COURTESY OF VII, NEW YORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); FILM (79%); IRAQ WAR (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (67%); ANIMATED FILMS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



570 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; POETIC CONNECTIONS ART AS APHRODISIAC; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: I Was the One Reading Andrew Marvell. You Were . . .

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
''Art is the sex of the imagination,'' said the drama critic George Jean Nathan, and no one can deny that creativity and carnality are closely linked. Perhaps there is a sexual charge placed in every artwork at its making; perhaps the mere act of looking at art itself is erotic. The following poems about the romantic effects of art (and artists) were ''found'' last week in the Missed Connections section of newyork.craigslist.org. They are printed verbatim with only line and stanza breaks added; their titles are the subject headings.
 MoMA PS1 Long Island City 
 You were dancing close to the steps.
 I was standing on the steps
 wearing a blue jersey,
 smoking a cigarette
 and drinking coffee (of all things).
 You were (and probably still are)
 a brunette with long hair, big eyes,
 and you were wearing some sort
 of a white/pink flowery(?) top.
 Our eyes met several times,
 smiles were exchanged,
 but I never got the chance to say hi to you.
 It was my mistake. Hoping to rectify that.
 The titian haired girl who brushes her teeth after smoking cigarettes
 I hope you started your painting.
 I hope you began your photo essay.
 I hope you're not spending your nights
 trying to find clever means
 of getting your hands on Xanax.
 I hope you're not living out
 in the Alaskan wilderness.
 I hope you're hurting a little less.
 Whitney Friday Feb 12 6:30 PM
 You are a beautiful black woman
 who was at the Whitney Museum
 on Friday around 6:30.
 You have curly shoulder length hair,
 probably 5'8'', and you
 were wearing gray pants.
 You were looking at the artwork
 on the 5th floor. I could have said something like this:
 ''Excuse me, would it be alright
 if I try a pickup line on you.'' ''Um...okay''. ''You are the most beautiful
 work of art in here.'' You roll your eyes. ''Thanks.'' Hopefully
 it would have turned out
 better than that.
 Eccentric-type Kunstler
 self employed/unemployed artist
 constantly looking for tall,
 simple-minded natural beauty
 to remind me (and never live up to)
 an exgirlfriend.
 puffy nipples a plus.
 i'll never be famous,
 but i do say some amazing things
 during sex.
 although right now
 i'm seeing a girl
 and its going well.
 New Museum free night
 I kept stealing glances at you among the art.
 You were in my up-going elevator
 (all the way up to floor 5)
 and I noticed you from the get go.
 On floor 2 we looked at various pieces
 in conjunction
 (my favorite was ''Panoptikon''
 but I never saw you near that one).
 When I left,
 you were standing on the sidewalk
 outside.
 I was about this
 (pinches thumb and forefinger together
 with about a quarter inch of air between them)
 close to saying hello.
 But you were with a friend
 and I was flummoxed
 and just crossed bowery
 and headed for the train.
 Details for search and recall:
 your friend was the male half
 of a male/female couple you were with.
 You are tall, you have dark
 and somewhat curly hair.
 You are dark skinned, haired
 and had stylish pants on.
 you work at the Guggenheim
 in the Kandinsky wing, you caught my eye,
 i thought you were cute, and wondered how
 you came to work at the Guggenheim.
 later, i noticed your awesome outfit:
 instead of a suit, a black one-piece
 coverall-type operation,
 with a tie and lots of pins/buttons. i wanted to talk to you,
 but i was too shy!
 fat chance you'll see this, but if so,
 let's have a drink :o)
 i was wearing
 a deep plum dress,
 with lavender hair to match.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



571 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Still Needed

 BODY:
Here is another chilling indicator of how Americans are struggling in the recession: In June 2009, some 46.9 million people were enrolled in Medicaid programs throughout the country, nearly 3.3 million more than in the previous June. That is the biggest one-year increase ever, according to a survey just released by the Kaiser Family Foundation. This year's Medicaid enrollments are almost certain to rise even higher and faster. 
 Medicaid, which is jointly financed by the federal and state governments, provides health insurance for poor people whose annual incomes fall below levels specified by each state. The insurance pays their medical, hospital and nursing home bills and makes it more likely that they will receive the health care they need.
 As part of last year's stimulus bill, Congress made the sound decision to temporarily enhance -- by a projected $87 billion -- the federal matching money for state Medicaid programs. The money has already proved enormously important in offsetting the cost of new enrollees, avoiding harmful program cuts, stabilizing state budgets, and saving jobs in the health care industry. 
 Unfortunately, the extra stimulus money runs out at the end of this year. Unless Congress acts soon to extend the funding for at least six months, many hard-pressed states will be forced to reduce Medicaid benefits or make other cuts in services that are likely only to deepen the recession.
 That will be bad news all around. State budgets are continuing to be badly battered, as company profits, family incomes and the taxes they generate plunge. Meanwhile, businesses continue to lay off workers, which means that more newly poor people will seek coverage from Medicaid, putting an even greater strain on state budgets when they are least able to afford it. 
 The president's new budget calls for extending the enhanced Medicaid payment until mid-2011, at a cost of around $25 billion. The House has put such an extension into two separate bills. The Senate has yet to act. 
 The hard times are not over. The enhanced Medicaid match is necessary -- both to help ease the states' budget problems and to ensure that low-income residents get health care. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); MATCHING GIFTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (74%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); NURSING HOMES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



572 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Takin' It to the Streets

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF. 
Ben Ratliff is a music critic for The Times and the author of ''The Jazz Ear: Conversations Over Music,'' which has now been published in paperback.

 BODY:
ALL HOPPED UP AND READY TO GO
 Music From the Streets of New York 1927-77
 By Tony Fletcher
 Illustrated. 476 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. Paper, $18.95
 The story of pop music is usually told as a story of records, and records are poor witnesses. They can make day-work seem like divine whispers, or fail to explain why a musician found his stride in such a place at such a time. 
 What they definitely don't do, though we very much want them to, is tell much about the places that produced them. A great cultural-event record -- say, ''Ran Kan Kan,'' by Tito Puente; ''Why Do Fools Fall in Love,'' by Frankie Lymon and the Teenagers; or ''Blitzkrieg Bop,'' by the Ramones -- is, deep inside itself, an index of the journeys of musicians and producers and promoters through particular neighborhoods with their hybrid slang, through clubs run by people with reasons for being crazy enough to open one, through cities changing their temperament through development projects and migration patterns. But, music being music, not much of this comes across when you're listening to it. 
 ''All Hopped Up and Ready to Go,'' by Tony Fletcher, an English music journalist who moved to Manhattan in the 1980s and now lives in upstate New York, aims to be something that the field of New York City pop-music studies really needs: a casebook of meaningful contact among its populations. The book's intention, Fletcher writes in his introduction, is to show how New York's cultural mix -- primarily the black, Latino and Jewish parts of it -- enabled its greatest music across a particularly fertile 50-year period, from 1927 to 1977. Its heroes, if you read closely enough, are the connectors between styles, the virus spreaders or hive pollinators who pop up in one chapter and then reappear 10 or 20 years later in another. Sometimes they're musicians; sometimes they're promoters or producers or fans. 
 These are people like Mario Bauza, the Cuban trumpeter who helped create Afro-Cuban jazz; George Goldner, a record producer in '40s mambo and '50s doo-wop; Richard Gottehrer, a Brill Building songwriter who went on to help found Sire Records and work with new-wave bands; Shadow Morton, producer of the '60s girl group the Shangri-Las and later of the proto-punk New York Dolls; and the musician and actor Eric Emerson, whose career, if you want to call it that, wended through acting roles in Andy Warhol's films, a short period fronting the glam-rock band the Magic Tramps, and friendships with members of Blondie. 
 ''All Hopped Up and Ready to Go'' -- its title taken from the Ramones song ''Sheena Is a Punk Rocker'' -- earns its authority by chronicling the rise of one New York movement after another: bebop, mambo, leftist folk, doo-wop, Brill Building pop, glam, punk, disco, hip-hop. The book starts with Bauza's first visit to New York in 1927, then 35 pages later jumps ahead to his collaborations with Dizzy Gillespie in 1947. In doing so it name-checkingly skims over the end of the stride-piano era, black musical theater, Ellington at the Cotton Club, Lindy Hopping at the Savoy Ballroom, and Barney Josephson's Cafe Society. This book actually covers 30 years, not 50. 
 But Fletcher finds his groove in the '60s and '70s, with rock and disco, when the narrative bubbles along on outrageous anecdotes, aesthetic movements get charted with full prehistories, and minor players make basic and fascinating assertions. One comes to understand something about the way gay dancers at the Limelight gravitated toward melody over rhythm; and the lucky proximity, during New York's bombed-out mid-'70s, of CBGB to dope dealers and Gem Spa. (You could show your face at the club, go fix up with heroin and egg cream, and return in time for the headlining band.)
 A reader might wish that Fletcher didn't feel compelled to do all that official-history exposition, because these stories have been well told elsewhere. The secret heroes of this book are rendered more fully, and they support a thesis of real urgency.
 Fletcher attempts to address music as social history, and necessarily tells a few stories that don't have much to do with music. Some people still scratch their heads, for example, about why jazz in Harlem went off the boil. The answer is more than 60 years old, and Fletcher tells the story well: It was the Police Department's temporary closing of the Savoy in 1943, and the subsequent Harlem riots that year -- ignited by a white cop's shooting of a black soldier, but foreshadowed by a growing frustration with institutional racism in the wartime economy. These events ruined many businesses along 125th Street and made white customers stay away; club owners sought surer business downtown, and that was the end of a scene. Whatever happened next in Harlem had to come from a completely different group of musicians, and so it did: vocal groups like the Ravens and the Crows, who promptly made uptown teenagers forget about jazz.
 Fletcher has done much original research. (At the same time, he uses press accounts a little more often than necessary.) But he's operating at a disadvantage, because most of these genres have already been covered vividly in other books. His task is to compress each genre into a series of clashes and dramas, then locate the strands that tie the genres together.
 His gift is enthusiasm. I've been grateful to him since first reading his fanzine, Jamming!, in London during the early '80s. Hand-stapled, with confused graphics, it cost the equivalent of about 50 cents, but Fletcher got it out there, proudly listing his age (13 when it started) on the masthead. But he seems so inured to the rhetorical lather of music journalism that in ''All Hopped Up and Ready to Go,'' particularly when writing about sacred documents, he turns on his autopilot. Lou Reed's ''Walk on the Wild Side'' has ''a sax solo straight out of a Harlem street corner at midnight''; the Velvet Underground's ''White Light/White Heat'' is ''one of the most uncompromising records ever to have stood the test of time.'' At times the book reads like a 400-page article for Mojo magazine. In rock criticism, a certain pitch of measured enthusiasm quickly grows monotonous.
 Fletcher has a rock fan's prejudice: a lot of his book boils down to tales of middle-class transgression. And that's O.K., given how much he knows about rock. But why spend so much energy describing the history of the Velvet Underground -- a band little known in its time but painfully overanalyzed since -- when you could be writing about the evolution of New York salsa, a popular movement still not adequately treated by historians? The reason is that the Velvets were part of a larger story: the East Village and Lower East Side rock scene of the '60s, a scratchy little world that he documents well. 
 Then again, for the very reason the book's thesis makes sense -- the fact that vastly different communities jostle together in New York, spilling aesthetics on one another -- it might have been good to push it further, and within the individual chapters. How nice it would be, for instance, when the Lower East Side chapter rolls around to 1967, to see an appearance by the singer Ismael Miranda; he lived on East 13th Street, just a few blocks from Max's Kansas City, and that year, with Larry Harlow's orchestra, he sang the boogaloo hit ''El Exigente,'' one of New York's great syncretic anthems, mixing soul and Afro-Latin music. Instead, we're left with a series of histories that want to be interconnected but end up a bit too self-contained. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Savoy Ballroom, 1938. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE KARGER/PIX INC. -- TIME & LIFE PICTURES, VIA GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); POP & ROCK (89%); SONG WRITING (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); RECORD INDUSTRY (77%); WRITERS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (62%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: All Hopped Up and Ready to Go: Music From the Streets of New York 1927-77 (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



573 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 BURMESE IN BANGLADESH FACE ABUSE AND DEPORTATION
 In a campaign that seems to have accelerated since October, aid groups say, ethnic Rohingya refugees who have been living for years in Bangladesh are being seized, beaten and deported back to Myanmar, where they had fled persecution and abuse. page 6 
 UKRAINE VOTE DISPUTE ENDS 
 Prime Minister Yulia V. Tymoshenko of Ukraine effectively conceded the presidential election by withdrawing her legal challenge, saying that she did not believe that she would get a fair hearing. page 8 
 WOMEN ASCEND IN BULGARIA
 Prime Minister Boiko M. Borisov of Bulgaria has promoted a legion of women -- including the justice minister, the mayor of Sofia and the speaker of Parliament -- heralding what some are calling a revolution in the politics of an abidingly macho Balkan country. Page 10 
 DUTCH COALITION COLLAPSES
 A last-ditch effort to keep Dutch troops in Afghanistan tore apart the governing coalition in the Netherlands, raising fears that other allied countries would withdraw their troops as well. page 12 
 Rebels Agree to Truce in Sudan 11 
 U.S. Lifts Syrian Travel Warning 13 
 National
 GOVERNORS SAY WORST IS YET TO COME FOR STATE BUDGETS
 Although the national economy has begun to bounce back, governors, who began their winter meeting in Washington, said that the worst was yet to come at the state level, where revenues are still falling short of projections. page 16
 GINGRICH AND BECK SPEAK
 Glenn Beck, the conservative talk show host, and Newt Gingrich, who led the Republican revolution in 1994, received rousing receptions on the closing day of the three-day Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington. page 16
 WYOMING DEBATES WIND TAX
 Wyoming has become a new frontier for the wind industry. But the state's renewable energy landscape could soon be capsized by a proposed tax on wind energy production, the first tax of its kind in the United States, energy experts say. page 19 
 GREEN MAY NOT BE ENOUGH
 U2's guitarist, the Edge, wants to build along the Malibu coast using every imaginable green building technique. But his vision has attracted many critics. Malibu Journal by Jennifer Steinhauer. page 14 
 New N.A.A.C.P. Chairwoman 4 
 F.B.I. Queries School Webcams 17
 Metropolitan
 IN BROOKLYN, ONE WOMAN
 Offers Relief to Thousands
 Freda Rosenfeld, a certified lactation consultant, has seen some thousands of new mothers. She swoops in at one of the most vulnerable moments in many women's lives to help with what is supposed to be the most natural and instinctive of acts but often is simply not. Page 1 
 WANT IN? DITCH THE ACT
 Fashion Week is a labyrinth of velvet ropes punctuated by people with clipboards shaking their heads no. But the City Critic, Ariel Kaminer, found that sometimes talking your way in can be as simple as losing the pose, and being polite. Page 4 
 Sports
 FROM NORTHERN MINNESOTA: AMERICA'S CURLING TEAM
 All five members of the American men's curling team at the Vancouver Olympics are from Minnesota. And the team's core is from one sliver north of Duluth. Page 10 
 A BIG DAY FOR HOCKEY
 The Olympic men's hockey matchup between Canada and the United States is just one of three clashes on Sunday between nations with a shared history. Russia versus the Czech Republic and Sweden versus Finland. Page 7 
 Sunday Business
 RELATIONSHIP THERAPY FOR AIRLINES AND PASSENGERS
 In the space of 18 months, the concept of a plane ticket has been transformed from an all-inclusive purchase to a pay-as-you-go plan, turning the relationship between airlines and customers increasingly sour. PAGE 1
 BUILDING A BETTER MAILBOX
 From the ashes of a failed experiment, a California couple conjured a reinvented, lockable mailbox that put their company, Architectural Mailboxes, on the map. Prototype by Amy Wallace. PAGE 4 
 A Midstream Switch to Teaching 10 
 Arts & Leisure
 NO MORE EVIL ROLES, BUT CREEPY IS STILL FINE
 After four decades of playing almost every sort of sociopath imaginable, Christopher Walken sought to play a benevolent soul. Now he is back on Broadway as the nice, but still strange Carmichael in ''A Behanding in Spokane.'' PAGE 1
 AN ACTRESS FOR ALL SEASONS
 Meryl Streep's 16th Oscar nomination -- best performance by an actress in a leading role for ''Julie & Julia'' -- seemed both richly merited and a bit redundant. PAGE 1
 Magazine
 A THINK TANK INSIDE THE BOX
 The newest think tanks in Washington aren't re-imagining the capital. Indeed, the new prototype embodied by the Center for American Progress, aspires more to operate within the party apparatus than to overthrow it. PAGE 13
 Questions for Paul Ryan 16
 A Sonically Sophisticated Film 18 
 Book Review
 THE PARADOX OF ROADS
 In ''The Routes of Man,'' Ted Conover contemplates how roads are changing the world and offers some globe-spanning travelogues along the way. PAGE 1
 Reviewing Clinton vs. Starr 10 
 Sunday Styles
 THE MILITARY INVASION OF FASHION ROLLS ON
 During New York Fashion Week, designers as disparate as Gwen Stefani, Richard Chai, Wayne Lee and Phillip Lim, injected collections with regulation olive drab and military trim. PAGE 1
 Sailing on Recycled Plastic 1 
 The Return of the Ski Bum 1 
 automobiles
 TELEVISION THAT STREAMS, EVEN IF TRAFFIC DOESN'T
 Reception of television programming while on the road is a considerable challenge. But electronics companies say they can make it work now. Why? They are using new broadcasts designed specifically for viewers on the move. SPORTSSUNDAY, PAGE 12 
 Week in Review
 A STALLED WASHINGTON MAKES FOR HEAD-SCRATCHING
 Have partisan polarization, special-interest money, news outlets and public disaffection ensured political gridlock in Washington? PAGE 1
 MOMENTUM IN MARJA
 At the end of a long and eventful week, it is perhaps not unreasonable to pose the question: Have the Americans and their allies, at long last, regained the initiative in Afghanistan? PAGE 1 
 NOW VOYAGER, NOW VOYEUR
 The social Web site Chatroulette drops you into a world where you are connected to a random succession of strangers from across the globe. The site has a faddish feel, but those who study online vagaries see a turn in the direction of the Internet. PAGE 1 
 Editorial
 MODEST WON'T DO IT
 Without comprehensive regulatory reform, banks are bound to revert to the pre-crisis status quo when the coast is clear. Week in Review, PAGE 7 
 STILL NEEDED
 Unless Congress acts to extend federal matching funds for state Medicaid programs, many states will be forced to make cuts that are likely to deepen the recession. Week in Review, PAGE 7 
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 America's lean years are here. Who will lead The Regeneration? Week in Review, Page 8
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 What the news business would look like if it were run like the health care business. Week in Review, Page 9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); REFUGEES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); WOMEN (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); WIND ENERGY (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); BUDGETS (71%); BREASTFEEDING (70%); WIND POWER PLANTS (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%); GREEN BUILDING (68%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (63%); WINTER SPORTS (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (58%); YULIA TYMOSHENKO (56%); GLENN BECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UKRAINE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BANGLADESH (94%); MYANMAR (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); BULGARIA (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SUDAN (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



574 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN MATAWAN, N.J.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: 2 Lakes, the Shore and a Train to the City

BYLINE: By JILL P. CAPUZZO

 BODY:
NOT long after moving to Matawan, Elizabeth Renner's children, Nicholas and Maria, found their local park in bad shape and decided to do something about it. With playmates, they circulated a petition, ran a lemonade stand and raised $169, which they handed over at a Borough Council meeting, urging the officials in attendance to fix the park.
 The council members returned the money, and within a year had installed new equipment. The lesson the children took from the experience, their mother said, in many ways defines Matawan. 
 ''They found out in a small town, your voice can be heard,'' said Mrs. Renner, describing the close-knit nature of the town she moved to in 2004, after marrying Steve Renner, who grew up in this Monmouth County borough. 
 Another transplant, Ken Colon, was similarly impressed by the sense of community he found last fall after he and his fiancee, Rachel Bragg, bought a house.
 ''It was a culture shock to him,'' said Ms. Bragg of Mr. Colon, who moved to town from Bloomfield in Essex County. ''When he walked into town to talk about taxes and utilities and people were saying, 'Hi,' he didn't even realize they were talking to him.''
 Matawan appeals to a wide variety of residents, partly because of an excellent transportation network but also for its wealth of natural resources, including two lakes and the Matawan Creek. The latter became part of New Jersey lore in 1916 after a shark made its way inland and killed a young boy swimming in the creek, as well as a would-be rescuer. 
 ''I'd say it's pretty much divided between those who are here because of its proximity to the city and the shore, and the group that's been here since Columbus,'' said William Garofalo, the borough administrator, describing the old-timers among the 8,900 or so residents as ''the bedrock of Matawan.'' 
 A clan in that camp, Beth Hopkins's family, has lived here for 70 years. Ms. Hopkins's father, Stockton Hopkins, was borough historian for many years, and she a member of the Matawan Historical Society, based in the 1723 Burrowes Mansion, which bears bullet holes said to date to the Revolution. 
 The still rather old-fashioned downtown that adjoins the Matawan-Aberdeen train station is an area of contention because of commuter traffic to and from the station, the main link to New York for several towns in the region. But the mayor, Paul Buccellato, emphasizes that the downtown is a place in transition.
 Seven years ago, Matawan was named a New Jersey Transit Village, a designation that allows it access to financing and expertise for transit-related development. And, as Mayor Buccellato pointed out, ''The train station brings people through town, which is a positive for the borough.'' He is trying to find builders for a retail and residential project near the station. 
 There are those like Karen Bull, who moved here from Brooklyn after swearing she'd never leave the city, who appreciate the urban feel of a busy downtown, mixed with the village-like atmosphere of a small town. 
 ''It's the best of both worlds,'' said Ms. Bull, whose three-bedroom colonial cost $245,000 seven years ago. ''I can walk in my backyard and get that quiet, far-away feeling. And then there's a Starbucks just a block away.''
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 Just 2.4 square miles in size, Matawan is informally divided into several neighborhoods largely defined by its two lakes, Lefferts and Matawan, and the two major highways that bisect Matawan, Routes 79 and 34. In recent years, properties facing the lakes have gained value, particularly in Edgemere Heights, with older homes on larger properties near Lake Lefferts. 
 When the Renners moved to Matawan in 2004, they paid $275,000 for a small house built in the 1800s with low ceilings and one closet, but on a large lot backing up to Lake Lefferts. Last year, they sold that house and moved into a 3,000-square-foot house they built next door after subdividing the property. Ms. Renner, skeptical about moving to Matawan at first, now says she would live nowhere else.
 ''It's a very cool, old-school kind of town,'' she said. ''The houses are not all the same square boxes. We can walk into town or to the train station. My kids ice skate across the lake to get to their friends' houses.'' 
 Barbara Tuttle, a broker with ReMax Champions in Matawan and a 45-year resident, said she sold a house last fall to a young couple who had stopped by her table at the annual street fair in the Lochslea Heights neighborhood, which has an eclectic mix of smaller Capes and ranches. 
 ''All the neighbors were out,'' she said, ''and they said they just loved the energy of the community and bought the house that day.'' 
 Another affordable neighborhood is called Green and White Village, because all its houses were painted white with green shutters when they were built in the 1940s. Since then, most have been repainted and many redone. 
 The expanded Cape that Ms. Bragg and Mr. Colon bought last October for $370,000 is in the Freneau section -- a hilly, wooded area named after the Revolutionary War poet Philip Freneau, who lived here and is buried in the neighborhood.
 Matawan's oldest buildings can be found along Main Street. There are 18th-century mansions as well as grand Victorians, some converted for commercial use. The newest homes are the 157 condominiums at the Preserve at Matawan on Route 79, which opened last year. There are also several rental complexes as well as an adult community, Cheesequake Village.
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 Compared with some neighboring communities, where new development drove up prices that then fell during the recession, Matawan has seen a less precipitous price drop. Donna Bruno, an agent at Coldwell Banker, ascribes that in part to limited development.
 ''There isn't a lot of opportunity for future growth here,'' said Ms. Bruno, who grew up in Matawan, ''because they don't have that land available. That helps resales tremendously because they don't have the competition of new homes.''
 In 2009, the average price of the 75 homes sold in Matawan was $323,826, versus $336,751 for the 47 sold in 2008. 
 There are 53 houses on the market, ranging in price from $157,000, for a three-bedroom fixer-upper built in 1920 to $499,900 for a five-bedroom three-bath ranch built in 1975.
 Larger colonials, lakefront properties and the few newer homes list for $350,000 to $500,000, while the smaller Capes, split-levels and ranches in areas like Lochslea Heights sell for $250,000 to $400,000, Ms. Bruno said. The one-, two- and three-bedroom condos at the Preserve at Matawan start at $269,990. 
 THE COMMUTE
 The Matawan-Aberdeen station serves most of western Monmouth County, offering a direct line to New York City, with commuting times ranging from 59 to 70 minutes. Matawan is also just off Exit 117 of the Garden State Parkway, which -- traffic depending -- gets you into the city in 50 to 60 minutes. New Jersey Transit's 133 Line provides bus service to Port Authority.
 WHAT TO DO
 Activity is focused on the lakes, and on Raritan Bay. Lake Lefferts, the site of the borough's Fourth of July fireworks display, is popular for skating, fishing and canoeing. A park at its north end has fishing docks and canoe and kayak rentals. Cheesequake State Park in neighboring Old Bridge offers boating and swimming in the Raritan Bay, as well as camping. The closest ocean beach, Sandy Hook, is 13 miles away; beaches like Belmar and Spring Lake are about a half-hour's drive.
 Matawan's downtown has several bars and restaurants, and shopping is available along Routes 34 and 79, just outside of town. One popular restaurant is the Buttonwood Manor facing Lake Lefferts, a site of celebratory events for decades. The First Baptist Church on Main Street has pancake breakfasts and seasonal festivals throughout the year. The Burrowes Mansion, also on Main Street, offers conducted tours and historical re-enactments. 
 THE SCHOOLS
 The high and middle schools of the Matawan-Aberdeen Regional School District cover both communities. SAT averages at Matawan Regional High School last year were 499 in math, 489 in reading and 490 in writing, versus 514, 492 and 494 statewide. The high school football team won the state division championship in 2009. 
 Elementary students are divided among the Cliffwood, Strathmore, Ravine Drive and Lloyd Road schools. 
 THE HISTORY
 Founded in 1686 by a group of Scottish Presbyterians, Matawan was originally part of the shipping settlement of Middletown Point, on Raritan Bay. In the 1800s the area was home to two piano factories, two tile factories, a basket factory and a lime kiln that processed oyster shells from nearby Keyport. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WALK TO WORSHIP: A view of Main Street, where most of Matawan's oldest buildings can be found. The borough has wide appeal, partly because of its direct transport link to New York City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DIBIASE BLAICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HISTORY (88%); REAL ESTATE (88%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (84%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PETITIONS (72%); TRAINS (70%); LAKES (69%); NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



575 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Early in the Year, And Already Surprised

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AFTER last year's stunning rally in global stock markets, many investors thought they knew what to expect in 2010. Among their bets were that the worst of the credit crisis was over, that the global economy would continue to expand and that the dollar would remain weak as economies abroad were expected to grow faster than that of the United States.
 What's more, if anything was to derail the new bull market, it was the likelihood that government efforts to jump-start the global economy would fan the flames of inflation. 
 Now move to the present. Less than two months into the new year, many of these assumptions are already under fire. For starters, economic turmoil overseas, spearheaded by a crippling debt crisis in Greece, is leading to new doubts about the global recovery. Even if Europe doesn't fall into a double-dip recession, some economists fear that the region won't fully recover until 2012. 
 As a result, investors have been selling euro-denominated investments and buying the dollar, raising its value by around 6 percent against the euro so far this year. 
 The surprising events prove a couple of important points, market strategists say. 
 First, they highlight the risks investors face whenever a strong consensus forms around any market call. ''There's an old saying that goes, 'if everyone is forecasting something, then you know it won't come true,''' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's.
 More often than not, he said, it's the thing that investors don't see coming that ends up unsettling portfolios. After all, at the end of 2009, how many people worried that the Greek debt crisis would stall the new bull?
 More important, the issues that are scaring the market today ''show that our assumptions about the financial crisis being over are premature,'' said Charles de Vaulx, a portfolio manager at International Value Advisers.
 At the core of the recent global credit crisis, he noted, was the dangerous amount of risk that individuals and corporations assumed by borrowing to spend and invest. And, he said, ''the way this crisis has been addressed around the world has been through a huge amount of fiscal stimulus.'' 
 In other words, to keep the economy afloat while the private sector repaired its balance sheet, governments worldwide picked up the spending slack. ''But the result of all those actions is that now, suddenly, the focus is on the creditworthiness of governments themselves,'' he added.
 That means the fiscal actions around the globe didn't end the credit crisis. They merely shifted the focus to another segment of the economy: the public sector.
 Does this mean that the rally -- and the recovery -- are over? Not necessarily, market watchers say. But at the least, it's a sign the market may have gotten ahead of the underlying economy. 
 Ernest M. Ankrim, senior markets adviser at Russell Investments in Tacoma, Wash., said that after stocks soared nearly 70 percent between March 9 and Dec. 31, as measured by the total return of the S.& P. 500, investors were probably betting on an economic rebound that would be as good as the downturn was bad. 
 But Mr. Ankrim noted that the markets might have miscalculated in one crucial area. After suffering through recent troubles in the housing, equity and job markets, he said, consumers aren't likely to go back immediately to their free-spending ways.
 That, in turn, could slow the economic recovery both at home and abroad.
 This would seem a strong argument to bet against the economies of the United States and Europe and to bet on the much more rapid growth of emerging markets.
 But not so fast. Just as the developed economies surprised investors negatively early this year, they could just as easily surprise on the upside later in 2010.
 Consider the euro. While its decline reveals real problems in Europe, it could also create a tailwind for some of its markets, said Michele Gambera, chief economist at Ibbotson Associates. 
 He noted that while Greece faces major budget problems, economies in Germany, France and the Netherlands are in far better shape. Yet the fall in the euro caused by Greece's problems could lift the exports of those healthier countries, whose products would thus be priced more competitively, he said.
 INVESTORS who are thinking of betting on the emerging markets should also take note of another surprise this year.
 Although emerging economies are growing must faster than the developed world -- growth in China, for instance, is projected at nearly 10 percent this year, versus 2.6 percent in the United States and 1 percent in Europe -- many emerging-market stocks have fared just as poorly as Western European shares lately.
 Chinese stocks are down about 7 percent this year, on average, about the same as European equities. The average Brazilian stock has lost more than 6 percent.
 But that's what often happens in markets where investors are prepared for one scenario, but where another one unfolds. ''If you don't expect something to happen and you haven't prepared for it,'' says Mr. Stovall of S.& P., ''that's when panic often sets in.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); EURO CRISIS (88%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECESSION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); EURO (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



576 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: A Small Price For a Large Benefit

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank is an economist at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

 BODY:
FORECASTS involving climate change are highly uncertain, denialists assert -- a point that climate researchers themselves readily concede. The denialists view the uncertainty as strengthening their case for inaction, yet a careful weighing of the relevant costs and benefits supports taking exactly the opposite course. 
 Organizers of the recent climate conference in Copenhagen sought, unsuccessfully, to forge agreements to limit global warming to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit by the end of the century. But even an increase that small would cause deadly harm. And far greater damage is likely if we do nothing. 
 The numbers -- and there are many to choose from -- paint a grim picture. According to recent estimates from the Integrated Global Systems Model at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the median forecast is for a climb of 9 degrees Fahrenheit by century's end, in the absence of effective countermeasures. 
 That forecast, however, may underestimate the increase. According to the same M.I.T. model, there is a 10 percent chance that the average global temperature will rise more than 12.4 degrees by 2100, and a 3 percent chance it will climb more than 14.4 degrees. Warming on that scale would be truly catastrophic. 
 Scientists say that even the 3.6-degree increase would spell widespread loss of life, so it's hardly alarmist to view the risk of inaction as frightening.
 In contrast, the risk of taking action should frighten no one. Essentially, the risk is that if current estimates turn out to be wildly pessimistic, the money spent to curb greenhouse gases wouldn't have been needed to save the planet. And yet that money would still have prevented substantial damage. (The M.I.T. model estimates a zero probability of the temperature rising by less than 3.6 degrees by 2100.)
 Moreover, taking action won't cost much. According to estimates by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a tax of $80 a metric ton on carbon dioxide -- or a cap-and-trade system with similar charges -- would stabilize temperatures by midcentury.
 This figure was determined, however, before the arrival of more pessimistic estimates on the pace of global warming. So let's assume a tax of $300 a ton, just to be safe. 
 Under such a tax, the prices of goods would rise in proportion to their carbon footprints -- in the case of gasoline, for example, by roughly $2.60 a gallon. 
 A sudden price increase of that magnitude could indeed be painful. But if phased in, it would cause much less harm. Facing steadily increasing fuel prices, for example, manufacturers would scramble to develop more efficient vehicles.
 Even from the existing menu of vehicles, a family could trade in its Ford Explorer, getting 15 miles per gallon, for a 32-m.p.g. Ford Focus wagon, thereby escaping the effect of higher gasoline prices. Europeans, many of whom already pay $4 a gallon more than Americans do for gasoline, have adapted to their higher prices with little difficulty. 
 In short, the cost of preventing catastrophic climate change is astonishingly small, and it involves just a few simple changes in behavior. 
 The real problem with the estimates is that the outcome may be worse than expected. And that's the strongest possible argument for taking action. In a rational world, that should be an easy choice, but in this case we appear to be headed in the wrong direction. 
 This strange state of affairs may be rooted in human psychology. As the Harvard psychologist Daniel Gilbert put it in a 2006 op-ed article in The Los Angeles Times, ''Global warming is bad, but it doesn't make us feel nauseated or angry or disgraced, and thus we don't feel compelled to rail against it as we do against other momentous threats to our species, such as flag burning.'' 
 People tend to have strong emotions about topics like food and sex, and to create their own moral rules around these emotions, he says. ''Moral emotions are the brain's call to action,'' he wrote. ''If climate change were caused by gay sex, or by the practice of eating kittens, millions of protesters would be massing in the streets.''
 But the human brain is remarkably flexible. Emotions matter, but so does logic. Even though we did not evolve under conditions that predisposed us to become indignant about climate change, we can learn to take such risks more seriously. But that won't happen without better political leadership. 
 Senator James Inhofe, a Republican from Oklahoma, has said that ''the claim that global warming is caused by man-made emissions is simply untrue and not based on sound science.'' On compelling evidence, he's wrong. . Yet he and his colleagues have the power to block legislation on greenhouse gases.
 WE don't know how much hotter the planet will become by 2100. But the fact that we face ''only'' a 10 percent chance of a catastrophic 12-degree climb surely does not argue for inaction. It calls for immediate, decisive steps.
 Most people would pay a substantial share of their wealth -- much more, certainly, than the modest cost of a carbon tax -- to avoid having someone pull the trigger on a gun pointed at their head with one bullet and nine empty chambers. Yet that's the kind of risk that some people think we should take. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (64%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



577 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Does It Need Fixing?

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Even in the midwinter mess of 2010, it's not hard to imagine a Washington that works. It wouldn't even seem to require that much change.
 Politicians in both parties would display a little more regard for one another, and the institutions they serve. The institutions themselves would impose a little more discipline and efficiency. Voters would give leaders a little more trust.
 In fact, that's a pretty good description of how Washington functioned for two decades after World War II, with strong results. Republicans and Democrats joined forces to enact the Marshall Plan, establish the federal highway system, advance civil rights, create Medicare and preside over robust economic growth. The war itself had much to do with that record, by helping pull the nation out of its economic problems as the United States led the Allies to victory over the Axis powers. The common efforts of what's now called the Greatest Generation deepened faith in American institutions.
 Can Washington again find that ''seriousness and common purpose,'' as President Obama put it last week? Or do partisan polarization, special-interest money, snarling news outlets and public disaffection ensure gridlock into the indefinite future? 
 Many see no way out -- at least in the near future. They argue that Washington is incapable of tackling long-term social and economic challenges, whether the solutions come from the left or the right. George W. Bush limped to the end of his presidency under fierce assault from Democrats, defeated in his efforts to overhaul the Social Security system and national immigration policy.
 One year later, despite drawing a larger popular-vote majority than Ronald Reagan did in 1980 and with his party controlling Congress, Mr. Obama confronts an angry public, re-energized Republicans and the possibility of crippling midterm defeats in November. In Washington, the moderate Democratic Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana cited the Capitol Hill muddle in announcing last week that he would not seek re-election.
 ''I've never been as pessimistic as I am right now,'' said Robert Reischauer, former director of the Congressional Budget Office. ''I don't see how we get out of this.''
 A more sanguine view holds that even 21st-century Washington has shown it can act if the country feels under maximum duress, particularly in foreign affairs. For good or ill, bipartisan majorities authorized war in Afghanistan and Iraq after 9/11, and approved a $700-billion bailout for the financial system when Wall Street teetered on the edge of collapse.
 The idea that politics is paralyzed ''is a thumbsucker for Washington cocktail parties,'' said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, in an interview last week. Shrugging off the political storms that have included calls for his own resignation, he said that Mr. Obama still could surmount partisan divisions and act, despite sagging political power.
 Pointing to the stabilization of the financial system in the past year, a return to economic growth, the winding down of the Iraq war and the new commitment to Afghanistan, Mr. Emanuel concluded: ''Ungovernable, or governable?''
 Others say that the system is working as it should -- slowly and cautiously. They argue that the checks and balances built into the Constitution were meant to set a high bar for federal action. ''Our system is designed for gridlock,'' said Thomas Cronin, a Colorado College political scientist. ''The country is antistatist. We love our country, but we've never liked government.''
 Strong action often has consequences. Lyndon Johnson and Mr. Reagan, after overwhelming victories and early legislative successes, saw voters slam on the brakes by rewarding their political adversaries in midterm elections.
 The question is whether government can still muster the capacity to act in anything other than extreme crises.
 Some believe that a return to divided government after the midterms this year might actually ease the way for action. Capturing at least one chamber of Congress would give Republicans a greater stake in compromising with a Democratic president. Shared responsibility between the political parties, Mr. Reischauer noted, helped explain how Mr. Reagan simplified the tax code, George H.W. Bush secured a deficit-reduction deal and Bill Clinton overhauled welfare policy.
 Yet rising fervor in each party's ideological base limits the ability of Congressional leaders to bargain even when they want to. Former Representative Tom Davis of Virginia, a past chairman of the Republicans' House campaign committee, said the most important step in restoring their flexibility was moving toward a less partisan redistricting process that, instead of giving most members districts packed with partisan allies, produced more balanced districts that made candidates fight for votes in the center.
 Many Democrats now focus on curbing use of the Senate filibuster, even though they found the 60-vote threshold useful in preventing Mr. Obama's predecessor from getting many conservative nominees to the federal bench. But changing the rules requires bipartisan cooperation.
 Lawmakers have grown apart in personal as well as ideological ways. Fund-raising demands and the ease of traveling back to their districts typically leave them racing out of the Capitol, away from their colleagues, once floor votes have concluded. The political scientist Norman Ornstein, co-author of a book about Congressional dysfunction called ''The Broken Branch,'' advocates overhauling the Capitol Hill schedule in ways to force lawmakers to spend more time working together. He would bar fund-raising events for certain periods.
 The problem with major steps to overhaul the political process is that none are likely to happen anytime soon.
 Of course, no one can ignore the role of American voters, whose careening verdicts in recent elections have produced something less than coherent instructions for their leaders. There are at least two ways they could force action: by electing more centrists with a bent for bipartisan compromise, or by handing one party such an overwhelming mandate as to make its agenda unstoppable.
 Pressure to break gridlock ''has to come from the grass roots,'' said Joe Trippi, strategist for Howard Dean's insurgency in the Democratic presidential primaries in 2004. Even as a recent Supreme Court decision has opened new avenues for campaign spending by corporate interests, Mr. Trippi said Mr. Obama could win over cynical voters anew by forcing fellow Democrats to swear off political action committee donations as he did in 2008.
 Even without substantial Republican help, Democratic majorities remain strong enough to force movement on Mr. Obama's key priorities if the party remains united. Continued economic improvement over the next few months, including a decline in the unemployment rate, could ease the panic now consuming the Democratic majority. Some White House strategists privately welcome gloomy flashbacks to Congressional Democratic defeats in 1994, since that might prod nervous members to move ahead on comprehensive health reform as their best political defense.
 Next week's bipartisan health care summit may force Mr. Obama to decide which course offers the best odds for breaking through. Corralling nervous Democrats will take individual persuasiveness in the style of L.B.J.; inducing cooperation from antagonistic Republicans will require the president to reconfigure his goals and show Reagan-like communications acumen in selling them.
 ''Does he have the skill to do it?'' asked Charles O. Jones, a scholar at the Presidential Oral History Program at the University of Virginia's Miller Center of Public Affairs. ''I don't know the answer to that.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL SAHRE AND JONAS BEUCHERT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGETS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); MEDICARE (70%); BAILOUTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); IMMIGRATION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (57%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); EVAN BAYH (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



578 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Up Next! On Live TV! Battle Over...Health?

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Robert Pear contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When he jousts with Congressional Republicans over health care policy during a televised meeting on Thursday, President Obama will seek to portray his adversaries as sharing many of the broad goals of his legislation and also strive to unify Congressional Democrats to press ahead and adopt a bill, senior White House officials and leading Democrats say. 
 But Mr. Obama, top White House advisers and Congressional leaders of both parties are under no illusion that the meeting will resolve more than a half-century of disagreements over health care policy. Instead, Democrats say, they hope the event will create a climate that helps revive their legislation in Congress and prove to the American public that they are willing to hear out Republicans and even adopt their ideas. 
 ''We may not be able to resolve all the disagreements, but we ought to be able to thrash out areas of broad agreement,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior adviser. ''The fact is, there are broad areas of agreement on elements of this, and hopefully that will become apparent here.'' 
 Mr. Axelrod added, ''Sitting side by side working through these issues is better than not sitting side by side and dealing with distortions.'' 
 Republican leaders have not yet committed to attending the session and have said they doubt the sincerity of Mr. Obama's bipartisan overtures, given his refusal to discard the Democrats' legislation and start over. But senior Republican aides said that party leaders planned to participate and that a chief goal would be to portray the president as defying the will of the American people if he continues pushing for an expansive and expensive bill. 
 The meeting is fraught with risk, and also offers potential rewards, for each side. 
 White House officials said that by Monday they would unveil Mr. Obama's own comprehensive proposal, focused on uniting Democrats who spent much of the past year deeply divided on many points. Administration officials and Congressional Democrats have expressed hopes that the meeting will help generate support for a plan to attach health care legislation to a budget bill, which would prevent a Republican filibuster in the Senate. 
 Even some senior White House officials are divided about whether a comprehensive bill is still viable and privately voice uncertainty about the outcome of the meeting.
 Many Democrats in Congress said they doubted that it was feasible to pass a major health care bill with a parliamentary tool called reconciliation, which is used to speed adoption of budget and tax legislation. Reconciliation requires only 51 votes for passage in the Senate, but entails procedural and political risks.
 ''If we took a vote now, we would not have 51 votes for that approach,'' said a Senate Democratic aide. ''The president would have to do a major sales job. He is the only person who has the political capital to do it. But his focusing on health care means that our efforts to focus on jobs are likely to be drowned out.''
 Mr. Obama and his fellow Democrats are also pursuing a parallel political strategy: to use the televised event to put Republicans and their ideas on display. It is a gamble that Americans will actually watch an in-the-weeds discussion of health care policy and conclude either that Republicans are unwilling to negotiate or that their policy ideas -- emphasizing tax incentives and state innovations -- will not work.
 ''This is now the crucial hour for health reform,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon. ''This is the make-or-break time, and the public is going to get to see it on TV. The impressions people get on Feb. 25 can be impressions that people take into the voting booth in November, so they can say, 'Who put us first? Who said it was more important to do what was right for America, rather than just bicker?' '' 
 Even as Republicans have denounced the meeting as ''political theater,'' they, too, sense an opportunity. 
 Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House Republican whip, said in an interview that he believed Republicans ought to attend -- not to negotiate with the president, but to use the session to make the case to the American people that the Democrats' bill ought to be thrown out.
 ''Republicans, I think, are up to the task of explaining why this bill is not for America,'' Mr. Cantor said. ''We will be there to present a better way.'' 
 Some of the initial jockeying at the meeting is likely to be over the basic question of what goals policymakers should focus on. 
 Mr. Obama has said he will challenge Republicans to show how their proposals would provide insurance to more than 30 million Americans over 10 years, which is what the Democrats' bills are projected to do. 
 But Republicans have argued for months that broadly expanding coverage is not a realistic goal, given the weak economy, and that lawmakers should focus on reducing health care costs. 
 The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said Americans did not want an expensive bill. ''Anyone who thinks they want a bill that raises a half-trillion in new taxes and slashes Medicare for our seniors simply isn't listening,'' Mr. McConnell said in a statement on Saturday. 
 Before the policy debate, however, come the practical arrangements. White House officials and Congressional Republicans are negotiating details of the meeting, including seating charts, who will speak and in what order, the number of staff members who can attend and the positioning of television cameras. 
 However the meeting plays out, Mr. Obama and his team will still face a formidable challenge in trying to muster the needed votes. The House adopted its health care bill on Nov. 7 on a vote of 220 to 215, with one Republican, Representative Anh Cao of Louisiana, in favor. 
 But since then, one Democratic supporter (John P. Murtha of Pennsylvania) has died, another (Robert Wexler of Florida) has resigned and Mr. Cao has said he would vote against the bill, meaning some Democrats who opposed the measure in November would need to switch sides to pass it. 
 Mr. Obama, in his weekly radio and Internet address on Saturday, urged Congressional leaders to attend the meeting in good faith. 
 ''I don't want to see this meeting turn into political theater, with each side simply reciting talking points and trying to score political points,'' he said. ''Instead, I ask members of both parties to seek common ground in an effort to solve a problem that's been with us for generations.'' 
 Some Democrats expressed skepticism. ''There's hope for a breakthrough here, but the odds of that are not very good,'' said a top Democratic aide who has worked for years on health care. ''This is a media event.'' 
 Democratic Congressional leaders are far less interested than the White House in playing nice with Republicans and instead are looking to the president to twist the arms of rank-and-file Democrats to produce the needed votes. 
 ''Once we get a bill,'' a Senate Democratic leadership aide said, ''we are still going to need a heck of a lot of help from the administration to help us get a bill through the House and Senate.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric Cantor, the House Republican whip, says his party should attend, not negotiate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 President Obama is set to meet with Republicans this week in a televised session on health policy. Each side is honing its strategy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGETS (85%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); TAX LAW (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DAVID AXELROD (73%); ERIC CANTOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



579 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: The President and the Prosecutor

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE. 
Richard L. Berke, an assistant managing editor at The Times, was the newspaper's national political correspondent from 1993 to 2002.

 BODY:
THE DEATH OF AMERICAN VIRTUE
 Clinton vs. Starr
 By Ken Gormley
 Illustrated. 789 pp. Crown Publishers. $35
 Is anyone still fixated on the escapades of Linda Tripp and her motives for ratting out Monica Lewinsky? Or on what Lewinsky's high-powered lawyers advised her to do with the semen-stained blue dress? (Don't give it to Goodwill.) Or on whether Vincent Foster, the deputy White House counsel, actually committed suicide? (Yes, he did.)
 Even amid the blazing intensity of President Bill Clinton's impeachment trial, the political controversy and sexual scandal it grew out of felt at once momentous and trivial -- unbearably so, at times. It was only the second impeachment of a president in American history (Andrew Johnson was the first). Newspapers published keepsake reprints of the report by Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel, as though it had the historical import of the Pentagon Papers. More than one million copies of the report were printed in book form. Yet the entire episode stemmed not from matters of war and peace, but from the question of whether Clinton, when he was governor of Arkansas, had bared himself to a young woman, Paula Corbin Jones, in a Little Rock hotel room in 1991. 
 In today's world of suicide bombers and a ravaged economy, it all seems not merely frivolous, but ludicrous. And it's especially disconcerting to think that while so many were preoccupied by Clinton's ''distinguishing characteristic,'' Osama bin Laden was most likely preoccupied with attacking the United States.
 ''The Death of American Virtue: Clinton vs. Starr,'' by Ken Gormley, recreates it all, from the Clintons' investment in the Whitewater development in rural Arkansas to the Paula Jones sexual harassment lawsuit and Clinton's affair with Lewinsky, culminating in the impeachment trial. This hefty volume, going beyond the sordid details, provides helpful context for the larger story, the fractionalization of American politics that defined the Clinton years.
 Gormley, a professor at the Duquesne University School of Law, approaches his subject with scholarly detachment. If anything, he is too detached. He refrains from exploring the motivations of the two central figures, Clinton and Starr, even when their conduct invites scrutiny. He also could have concentrated even more on the broader political theater, much of it driven by the media and particularly by cable television and Web sites like the Drudge Report that gleefully covered the misbehavior of the ''celebrity in chief'' down to every salacious footnote in the Starr report.
 Yet the sobriety of ''The Death of American Virtue'' also offers a relief from the familiar overheated chronicles. Unlike some other commentators, Gormley allows for the possibility that even the most rabid-seeming players might have acted out of honorable considerations. Starr, for one, comes across not as a zealous partisan but as the wrong choice to prosecute the case. Despite his impressive resume -- he had been a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and then solicitor general under George H. W. Bush -- he had never run a major criminal investigation. His missteps handed both sides in the case ample cause to distrust him. Yes, he gave running room to a clique of lawyers driven by a deep antipathy toward Bill Clinton. But he also initially opposed subpoenaing the president, invoking the duty ''to be respectful of the presidency.''
 Gormley's account gains credibility and freshness for another reason: He interviewed all the crucial participants, some of whom disclosed valuable nuggets. Most surprising, perhaps, is that Susan Webber Wright, the federal judge who oversaw the Jones case, considered finding Clinton in criminal contempt during the Senate trial following his impeachment by the House. Had she done so, it might have ''ended his political career in a nanosecond,'' Gormley writes, giving the Senate all it needed to convict. 
 This was a rare instance of restraint. Although the author never explicitly makes the point, he has in effect written a case study in excess, as outrage at Clinton's actions prompted people to overreact. Gormley turns up suggestions of possible misconduct on both sides. These include the assertion by Lewis Merletti, the former director of the Secret Service, that the F.B.I. improperly grilled him in an effort to prove that Merletti's agents had tried to cover up Clinton's flings and had even helped facilitate them. And Monica Lewinsky is quoted as saying she believed Clinton lied under oath to a grand jury.
 Did the Clinton-Starr entanglement change how we look at politicians or morality? Probably not. Have the subsequent presidents gone out of their way to show off their happy personal lives? Perhaps, but then politicians have long pushed their blissful families front and center. Nor does it seem that the Clinton scandal has made the public either more or less forgiving of John Edwards's trespasses, this season's most titillating political news.
 ''The Death of American Virtue'' dispenses important lessons. One is that the investigation was a colossal diversion -- not only for the president but also for his aides (despite their insistence then that it was not a distraction). It also eclipsed the administration's genuine accomplishments. No wonder that years later, Clinton's ''eyes flashed with anger'' at the very mention of the independent counsel.
 It's not surprising that both Clinton and Starr agreed to be interviewed multiple times for this book. They come off the better for it, especially when admitting to their miscalculations. You don't have to be sympathetic to Clinton to understand how he felt under siege at every turn. You don't have to be a Starr loyalist to see how the Clinton drama blotted his own reputation and his dream of landing on the Supreme Court.
 Reflecting on his mistake in acquiescing to the appointment of an independent counsel, Clinton told Gormley, ''I was so naive.'' This is a refrain echoed by others. Wesley Holmes, one of Paula Jones's lawyers, remembering his assumption that her litigation could be handled with dispatch, ruefully told Gormley, ''How naive we were.''
 In retrospect, it is tempting to see the Clinton impeachment as having ushered in the feral reality of politics today: the birthers, the Tea Party movement, a Congress where old-fashioned legislative victory has given way to the insatiable appetite for annihilation. But in reality, the case belongs on the continuum that began with the toppling of Robert Bork's nomination to the Supreme Court, continued through the Clarence Thomas-Anita Hill fracas and was followed by the contested 2000 election. Indeed, the most consequential result of both Clinton's behavior and the Starr investigation was the election of George W. Bush. Clinton's would-be successor, Vice President Al Gore, was embarrassed to campaign alongside Clinton, especially in the Bible Belt, and ended up losing states where Clinton was still popular.
 Shortly before his death in 2007, Henry Hyde, the Illinois congressman who led the impeachment, defended the Republicans' actions as honorable and added, ''I take consolation in comments that George W. Bush would not have been elected if we had not impeached President Clinton.''
 There has been no equivalent satisfaction for Monica Lewinsky or for many other participants who still view the events with despair. Even Kenneth Starr,dean at the Pepperdine University School of Law, who this week was named president of Baylor University, regrets that his office wound up as the authority investigating the Lewinsky matter. Recalling his emotions as he watched the impeachment proceedings on television, Starr told Gormley that he asked himself: ''Why did all of this have to happen? Why did we get to where we are? This is all so unnecessary.'' More than a decade later, very few will disagree.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE NEW YORK TIMES (BILL CLINTON) AND DOUG MILLS/ASSOCIATED PRESS (KENNETH W. STARR)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (76%); POLITICS (75%); SEX SCANDALS (75%); SCANDALS (75%); HISTORY (74%); LITIGATION (72%); SUICIDE (71%); TERRORISM (70%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: Death of American Virtue: Clinton vs. Starr, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



580 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: The Fat Lady Has Sung

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
A small news item from Tracy, Calif., caught my eye last week. Local station CBS 13 reported: ''Tracy residents will now have to pay every time they call 911 for a medical emergency. But there are a couple of options. Residents can pay a $48 voluntary fee for the year, which allows them to call 911 as many times as necessary. Or there's the option of not signing up for the annual fee. Instead they will be charged $300 if they make a call for help.''
 Welcome to the lean years. 
 Yes, sir, we've just had our 70 fat years in America, thanks to the Greatest Generation and the bounty of freedom and prosperity they built for us. And in these past 70 years, leadership -- whether of the country, a university, a company, a state, a charity, or a township -- has largely been about giving things away, building things from scratch, lowering taxes or making grants.
 But now it feels as if we are entering a new era, ''where the great task of government and of leadership is going to be about taking things away from people,'' said the Johns Hopkins University foreign policy expert Michael Mandelbaum. 
 Indeed, to lead now is to trim, to fire or to downsize services, programs or personnel. We've gone from the age of government handouts to the age of citizen givebacks, from the age of companions fly free to the age of paying for each bag.
 Let's just hope our lean years will only number seven. That will depend a lot on us and whether we rise to the economic challenges of this moment. Our parents truly were the Greatest Generation. We, alas, in too many ways, have been what the writer Kurt Andersen called ''The Grasshopper Generation,'' eating through the prosperity that was bequeathed us like hungry locusts. Now we and our kids together need to be ''The Regeneration'' -- the generation that renews, refreshes, re-energizes and rebuilds America for the 21st century.
 President Obama's bad luck was that he showed up just as we moved from the fat years to the lean years. His calling is to lead The Regeneration. He clearly understands that in his head, but he has yet to give full voice to it. Actually, the thing that most baffles me about Mr. Obama is how a politician who speaks so well, and is trying to do so many worthy things, can't come up with a clear, simple, repeatable narrative to explain his politics -- when it is so obvious. 
 Mr. Obama won the election because he was able to ''rent'' a significant number of independent voters -- including Republican business types who had never voted for a Democrat in their lives -- because they knew in their guts that the country was on the wrong track and was desperately in need of nation-building at home and that John McCain was not the man to do it.
 They thought that Mr. Obama, despite his liberal credentials, had the unique skills, temperament, voice and values to pull the country together for this new Apollo program -- not to take us to the moon, but into the 21st century.
 Alas, though, instead of making nation-building in America his overarching narrative and then fitting health care, energy, educational reform, infrastructure, competitiveness and deficit reduction under that rubric, the president has pursued each separately. This made each initiative appear to be just some stand-alone liberal obsession to pay off a Democratic constituency -- not an essential ingredient of a nation-building strategy -- and, therefore, they have proved to be easily obstructed, picked off or delegitimized by opponents and lobbyists. 
 So ''Obamism'' feels at worst like a hodgepodge, at best like a to-do list -- one that got way too dominated by health care instead of innovation and jobs -- and not the least like a big, aspirational project that can bring out America's still vast potential for greatness.
 To be sure, taking over the presidency at the dawn of the lean years is no easy task. The president needs to persuade the country to invest in the future and pay for the past -- past profligacy -- all at the same time. We have to pay for more new schools and infrastructure than ever, while accepting more entitlement cuts than ever, when public trust in government is lower than ever. 
 On top of that, the Republican Party has never been more irresponsible. Having helped run the deficit to new heights during the recent Bush years, the G.O.P. is now unwilling to take any responsibility for dealing with it if it involves raising taxes. At the same time, the rise of cable TV has transformed politics in our country generally into just another spectator sport, like all-star wrestling. C-Span is just ESPN with only two teams. We watch it for entertainment, not solutions. 
 While it would certainly help if the president voiced a more compelling narrative, I am under no illusion that this alone would solve all his problems and ours. It comes back to us: We have to demand the truth from our politicians and be ready to accept it ourselves. We simply do not have another presidency to waste. There are no more fat years to eat through. If Obama fails, we all fail. 
 Frank Rich and Maureen Dowd are off today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICS (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



581 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: States Have Not Yet Seen the Worst of Economic Times, Governors at Meeting Say

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Although the national economy has begun to bounce back, governors said Saturday that the worst was yet to come at the state level, where revenues are still falling short of projections.
 ''State revenues continue to deteriorate, as most states are witnessing monthly totals lower than their recent forecasts, which have been revised downward,'' said Gov. Jim Douglas of Vermont, the chairman of the National Governors Association, which opened its winter meeting here on Saturday. 
 Mr. Douglas, a Republican, said the fiscal situation was ''fairly poor for most states around the country.'' And a report issued by the association predicted that the fiscal year starting July 1 would be ''the most difficult to date.'' 
 Health care was another pressing issue on the agenda. A number of the governors, some of them Democrats, were less than enthusiastic about elements of the sweeping health care legislation championed by President Obama and Democrats in Congress.
 Governors said they needed more latitude to devise health insurance programs tailored to the needs, priorities and fiscal capacity of their states. 
 Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, a Democrat, said his state was doing fine with its requirement for people to obtain health insurance.
 But Gov. Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, a Democrat who is vice chairman of the National Governors Association, criticized proposals that would require everyone to carry insurance with benefits specified by the federal government.
 ''One size does not fit all,'' Mr. Manchin said. ''We need flexibility to make sure our citizens are insured. I should not be mandated to take care of somebody who is having a hard time financially but is very healthy.''
 With health legislation stalled in Congress, governors said they were moving ahead on their own to transform the health care system, improve the quality of care and hold down costs.
 ''To be perfectly honest,'' Mr. Douglas said, ''I had expected that we would be here today talking about implementation of a new national health plan enacted by Congress. But we cannot wait for the federal government. We are going to move forward. We will provide leadership with or without a federal health care bill.''
 Michelle Obama, the first lady, received a warm welcome from the group as she made an impassioned plea for state efforts to reduce childhood obesity.
 ''We cannot solve our health care problems unless we address our childhood obesity problem, too,'' Mrs. Obama said.
 Mrs. Obama said health costs would continue to soar if children continued to stuff themselves with salty, high-fat foods that contributed to obesity -- and to a higher risk of diabetes, high blood pressure and heart disease.
 Even as the governors debated ways to tackle their financial problems, some said the situation could have been worse. Governor Douglas said the recession might have been deeper and longer if Congress had not approved a $787 billion package to simulate the economy last year.
 The new governor of New Jersey, Christopher J. Christie, a Republican, said that while the federal aid had helped states, ''it really just put off difficult choices.''
 Other governors said they were dismayed by the failure of Congress to pass legislation to help create jobs and resuscitate the economy. States, they said, were paying a price for the inaction on Capitol Hill.
 ''Because of the decline in state revenues,'' Mr. Douglas said, ''43 states cut $31 billion from their budgets in 2009. For fiscal year 2010, even with nearly $30 billion in new revenue, 36 states have been forced to cut $55 billion. Thirty states have cut elementary, secondary and higher education.''
 Given these problems, governors of both parties expressed concern about plans by Democrats in Congress to expand Medicaid, the program for low-income people.
 Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, the chairman of the Republican Governors Association, said the health bills passed by the House and the Senate would impose ''an enormous unfunded mandate on states,'' forcing them to pick up $25 billion in new costs over 10 years.
 Mr. Barbour explained what this would mean in Mississippi: ''Either the state income tax or the state sales tax or both would have to be raised. We would add 300,000 people to the Medicaid rolls. It's about a 50 percent increase.''
 Gov. Christine Gregoire of Washington, a Democrat, said that despite such concerns, she was ''a huge champion of national health care reform.''
 ''You can't take little nibbles at health care reform,'' Ms. Gregoire said. ''It's got to be comprehensive.''
 Ms. Gregoire said she had told the top Democrats in Congress that they might want to delay the expansion of Medicaid if states were still in economic distress in a few years.
 ''If we don't come out of this recession and if I have to absorb new costs, I don't know how I would do it,'' Ms. Gregoire said. ''We would be hard-pressed to pick up the tab. But that's not to say we should not move forward on health care reform. Doing nothing would be the biggest mistake.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michelle Obama spoke Saturday at a meeting of the National Governors Association. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); OBESITY (88%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (88%); HEALTH CARE LAW (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (84%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); HEALTH CARE (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); OILS & FATS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); HYPERTENSION (60%); HEART DISEASE (60%); DIABETES (60%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (89%); JIM DOUGLAS (79%); BARACK OBAMA (75%); JOE MANCHIN (58%); DEVAL PATRICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



582 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: In Wyoming, Debate Swirls on Taxing Wind Industry

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

 BODY:
With currents of powerful wind gusts whipping across its plains and plateaus, Wyoming has become a new frontier for the wind industry -- the latest energy development for a state that only recently experienced a natural gas boom. 
 But in a place that is both cautious about such growth and interested in the potential benefits, some believe that those behind the wave of wind farms and turbines need to pay their fair share. 
 A new bill being pushed by Gov. Dave Freudenthal would change the state's renewable energy landscape by levying an excise tax on wind energy production, the first tax of its kind in the United States, energy experts say. 
 The proposal, which was approved by the Wyoming House of Representatives on Thursday and is headed to the State Senate for a vote, would impose a $1-per-megawatt-hour tax on wind energy production. Revenue from the tax is projected at a minimum of $4 million annually, to be divided between the counties where the wind projects are located and the state. The tax would go into effect in 2012.
 ''We want to make sure that wind developers pay their way in Wyoming and that the tax burden isn't shifted to the taxpayers,'' said Ryan Lance, deputy chief of staff for Mr. Freudenthal, a Democrat. ''These guys are making a lot of money, and we get all the impact -- environmental and socioeconomic.'' 
 But wind energy industry leaders in Wyoming worry that the tax will scare off developers at a critical time in the industry's genesis, particularly when other states are taking the opposite tack and creating incentives to lure wind projects and jobs. 
 ''We're very much against this,'' said Cheryl Riley, executive director of the Wyoming Power Producers Coalition, a group of 15 wind and transmission developers. ''We think this sends a negative message that Wyoming may not want wind development.'' 
 ''I think there's great potential for wind energy development here, but until some of these issues, specifically that of taxation, are worked out, Wyoming won't see its full potential reached,'' Ms. Riley said. 
 Wyoming is the eighth-windiest state in the country -- Texas is the windiest -- and gusts here are renowned for their strength and duration. According to the American Wind Energy Association, or AWEA, Wyoming ranks 12th nationally in wind power installations, and the electricity it generated from wind projects in 2009 was nearly double that of the previous year.
 But with the recent sunset of a sales tax exemption for the industry and no property tax exemptions, the excise tax could cripple Wyoming's competitiveness for wind energy projects, Ms. Riley said. 
 ''Putting a tax on the air really makes Wyoming an unfriendly state for wind energy,'' said Denise Bode, chief executive for AWEA. ''We urge them to take some time to work with the industry to try and address any concerns. Being No. 1 in something is not necessarily the best way to go, particularly when it comes to increasing taxes in a promising new industry.'' 
 But State Senator Jim Anderson, a Republican from Converse and Platte Counties who was chairman of a state legislative task force on wind energy, said the tax could be imposed at a low level and could always be adjusted later. 
 ''We recognize that Wyoming has some of the best wind in the world,'' said Mr. Anderson, who supports the legislation. ''We feel in comparison with the way we've taxed the petroleum and extractive industries, the wind industry needs to pay its fair share.'' 
 Other supporters have said the tax offers a rare opportunity to diversify Wyoming's tax base. Mr. Lance, of Mr. Freudenthal's office, said the governor was particularly swayed by constituents who spoke of the potential impacts of wind development on the state's economy. 
 ''You have the governor going to Home Depot and people coming up to him saying: 'You're darn right you better tax those guys. They need to pay their own way,' '' Mr. Lance said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Turbines in Wyoming, where an excise tax on wind energy production is under consideration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (91%); WIND POWER PLANTS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); EXCISE TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (75%); SALES TAX (75%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); APPROVALS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

PERSON: DAVE FREUDENTHAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



583 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Housing's Crystal Ball

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
HOME buyers heading into real estate's busy spring season face a tricky question: should they buy soon, before mortgage rates increase, or wait a few months, when housing prices are finally expected to hit rock bottom?
 Of course, the assumptions at the core of that question could easily fall through. But rarely in recent years have economists from the mortgage and housing industries been so closely aligned in their short-term nationwide forecasts as they seem to be now. 
 Economists are generally predicting that mortgage rates will begin to edge up in late March, settling at about 5.5 percent, possibly as high as 6 percent, for a 30-year fixed-rate loan. The rate today is around 5 percent. They also expect that the inventory of foreclosed homes will grow through the summer, saturating the market with cheap properties and keeping overall prices low. 
 ''I wouldn't rush,'' said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, ''but if I found a house I was excited about, I wouldn't wait. You might not be buying at the very bottom, but you'll still get a great rate, and if you stay for more than a few years, you'll be rewarded.''
 By that time, he added, home values will have appreciated.
 Two factors could push rates higher, economists say. First, the Federal Reserve is set to stop subsidizing the mortgage market sometime next month, when it exhausts the roughly $1.25 trillion earmarked for mortgage-backed securities sold by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The government stepped in as a buyer during the mortgage market crisis, when most investors had rejected these securities. Economists expect investors to re-enter the market, but only if rates on the securities become more attractive. 
 Mortgage rates also typically move in lockstep with the long-term economic outlook. Economists generally believe that the nation is in the early stages of a slow recovery, and that as the recovery proceeds, interest rates will go up.
 Mr. Zandi and Jay Brinkmann, the chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association in Washington, are both predicting that rates will not exceed 5.5 percent this year. If they rose beyond that level, Mr. Brinkann said, the federal government would very likely resume its subsidies rather than risk damaging the real estate market.
 But Cameron Findlay, the chief economist for LendingTree.com, predicted that rates could go as high as 6 percent without any government intervention. 
 Mr. Findlay also studied the mortgage burden of households across the nation, as a guide to how quickly particular states could recover from the recession.
 In New York state, for instance, the average mortgage payment is $1,326, or about 34 percent of the average household's income ($47,349), Mr. Findlay said. The state's unemployment rate is 9 percent, which is slightly lower than the national average of 9.7 percent. Mr. Findlay's data did not separate New York City from the rest of the state.
 Connecticut's ratio of mortgage debt to income is lower, at 24 percent, and the unemployment rate is also lower, at 8.9 percent, which he says means people are generally better positioned to buy homes than in New York.
 New Jersey's mortgage debt-to-income ratio is also lower than New York's, Mr. Findlay said, at 26 percent. But the state's unemployment rate is 10.1 percent, he added, and that means its housing recovery will probably trail New York's.
 Mr. Zandi of Economy.com said he expected the nation's housing prices to fall another 8 percent during 2010 and bottom out by the end of the year, 34 percent lower than they were at the market's peak in the spring of 2006.
 Housing prices will increase once foreclosures start to fall. ''It will be a number of years before prices really start to rise in a normal way,'' Mr. Zandi said.

GRAPHIC: CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); FORECLOSURE (79%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



584 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Discovery) KING TUT UNWRAPPED Zahi Hawass, right, an Egyptologist who leads the Supreme Council of Antiquities in Cairo, oversees this two-part forensic investigation into the 19-year life of King Tutankhamen, revealing for the first time the identity of the boy pharaoh's parents and grandparents, his cause of death about 1324 B.C. and new details of his nine-year reign. Part 1 begins by following the extraction of DNA from Tut's mummy, which is described in the current issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association. Part 2, on Monday at 8, draws on new evidence to determine what caused Tut's death, and how his afflictions might have affected his military, religious and political leadership. 
 10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Republican of California, and Gov. Edward G. Rendell, Democrat of Pennsylvania, discuss how to break the partisan deadlock in Washington. 
10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY WITH CHRIS WALLACE Mr. Wallace speaks with Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, about the opportunity for bipartisanship on health care reform and the coming meeting between President Obama and Congressional Republicans.
 10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION Bob Schieffer interviews former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell.
 10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Gen. David H. Petraeus, the commander of the Central Command, discusses the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 7 P.M. (MSNBC) 2010 WINTER OLYMPIC GAMES It's the match men's hockey fans have been waiting for, as the United States goes up against Canada. Other prime-time events include ice dancing, speed skating, freestyle skiing and bobsled, at 7 on NBC. The day's coverage begins at noon with women's curling on MSNBC, and on NBC with men's hockey, followed by freestyle skiing, biathlon and bobsled; men's curling, at 5 on CNBC; women's curling, at 10 on CNBC; the women's biathlon gold-medal final and award ceremonies, at 11:35 on NBC; men's hockey, at midnight on MSNBC; and women's curling (same-day tape), at 3 a.m. on MSNBC.
 8 P.M. (BBC America) THE BRITISH FILM ACADEMY AWARDS Vanessa Redgrave, following in the footsteps of Alfred Hitchcock, Charlie Chaplin, Julie Christie, Elizabeth Taylor and Judi Dench, is this year's recipient of the Academy Fellowship, which honors contributions to the movie industry. Nominees for best film are ''Avatar,'' ''The Hurt Locker,'' ''Precious: Based on the Novel 'Push' by Sapphire,'' ''Up in the Air'' and ''An Education,'' which also earned a nod for outstanding British film. Jeff Bridges, George Clooney, Colin Firth, Jeremy Renner and Andy Serkis are in the running for leading actor; Carey Mulligan, Saoirse Ronan, Gabourey Sidibe, Meryl Streep and Audrey Tautou will compete for leading actress. Ms. Mulligan has also been nominated, with Jesse Eisenberg, Nicholas Hoult, Tahar Rahim and Kristen Stewart, for the Rising Star Award. 
 8 P.M. (13, 49) INVASION OF THE GIANT PYTHONS Beware the Florida Everglades, whose most frightening inhabitants may not be its half a million alligators but rather enormous Burmese pythons -- more than 20 feet long, 300 pounds and as thick as a telephone pole -- that call the wilderness home. ''Nature'' takes a look at these accidentally -- and in some cases, perhaps intentionally -- released reptiles, above.
 8 P.M. (LMN) SINS OF THE MOTHER (2010) A graduate student suffering from burnout (Nicole Beharie) returns to her childhood home to confront her abusive, alcoholic mother (Jill Scott) -- only to discover that Mom is completely transformed. But can her daughter move on as well?
 9 P.M. (BET) THE FAMILY CREWS Terry Crews -- the former National Football League player-turned-television-dad in ''Everyone Hates Chris'' and would-be action star -- opens the door of his home, which he shares with his wife, Rebecca; their five children, ages 3 to 22; and their dog, Coffee. It's a madhouse. 
 9 P.M. (CBS) UNDERCOVER BOSS Joseph DePinto, the chief executive of 7-Eleven, works incognito in his own company and discovers that one of his corporate policies has not been put into effect. He also finds inspiration in a delivery driver's philosophy about life. In ''Cold Case,'' at 10, the team investigates the 1971 death of a young circus aerialist whose fall may not have been an accident. The Doors provide the soundtrack, which includes ''Light My Fire,'' ''Love Her Madly'' and ''Riders on the Storm.'' 
 10 P.M. (Comedy Central) SINBAD: WHERE U BEEN? After a 13-year absence from the stage, Sinbad does stand-up at the Club Nokia Theater in Los Angeles, riffing on President Obama, the economy, love and marriage, and where he's been all this time. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); FORENSICS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); SKIING (86%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); ICE SKATING (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); SPORTS FANS (64%); OLYMPICS (64%); FILM (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (64%); WINTER OLYMPICS (64%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (64%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (60%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: COLIN FIRTH (79%); ZAHI HAWASS (73%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (53%); ED RENDELL (53%); MITCH MCCONNELL (53%); GEORGE CLOONEY (51%); DAVID PETRAEUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFGHANISTAN (76%); IRAQ (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



585 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: I Apologize. No, Really, I'm Serious, I...

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
The art of the apology, like every art, has its connoisseurs and professional critics; and almost all of them have weighed in on last week's big show: Friday's televised mea culpa by Tiger Woods.
 Woods's apology for the pain his marital infidelities have caused family, friends and fans (in roughly that order of hurt) elicited the analysis of a veritable professoriate of apology experts who have been honing their skills for years on the blood-spattered sidewalk of prominent people's reputations.
 (Their consensus on Woods: Too long. Too much stagecraft. But otherwise, not bad.) 
 Yet, for all the expertise out there, and despite the fascination and great public demand for it, the art of apology as practiced by the average American person of prominence -- whether in politics, sports, religion or business -- remains by most accounts pretty unsatisfying.
 There was Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina: ''I've spent the last five days of my life crying in Argentina.'' Or Lloyd Blankfein, chief executive of Goldman Sachs, who offered a stinting apology for his firm's role in the financial collapse.
 Some blame the lawyers, with their warnings against legally incriminating admissions. Others blame the mythology of American manhood channeled by Hollywood icons like John Wayne, whose dictum, ''Never apologize and never explain -- it's a sign of weakness,'' entered the language after he recited it in John Ford's 1949 Western, ''She Wore a Yellow Ribbon.''
 Others point to character flaws that sometimes fuel success.
 ''A good apology has to begin with a real connection between the apologizer and the offended person or audience,'' said Patrick Field, co-managing director of the Consensus Building Institute, a nonprofit organization that advises government officials. ''And unfortunately a lot of people who have risen to the top of their professions are narcissistic individuals, and just not capable of that.''
 Among experts in the field, the record of failed public apologies in the last few years alone has been rich enough to spawn its own shorthand.
 A ''Mark Sanford,'' for example, is the sort of rambling, confessional apology that leaves you worse off than before. A ''Mark McGwire'' is the self-pitying apology that shows a lack of genuine contrition, and broadcasts your resentment at being caught. The dread ''John Edwards'' is that apology which almost does not matter because you are for the foreseeable future beyond help.
 A ''David Letterman'' is one that works, but only if you happen to be a professional comedian with a goofy persona and late-night talk show.
 In fact, late-night television may be the listening post most Americans rely on for making sense of these things. But the underlying problem represented by America's inadequate apologizers runs pretty deep, said the Rev. Gary Dorrien, a professor of social ethics at Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan.
 ''Public trust is built on an assumption that public officials, and respected public figures, can be believed -- that you can trust that they are who they say they are,'' he said.
 When public figures are revealed to be other than who they claimed -- and follow up with apologies that betray them as having immature personalities, unfamiliar with the rigors of honest self-assessment -- the fabric of social trust suffers, he said.
 It's not as if the whole thing suddenly tears in two because an Eliot Spitzer gets caught in a prostitution sting, resigns as governor of New York, and apologizes -- but never mentions or admits that he broke the law.
 But incrementally, the accumulation of little tears in the fabric ''makes it harder and harder to talk about the ethical underpinning of any public policy issues, harder to mobilize people,'' Mr. Dorrien said.
 Dr. Aaron Lazare, a psychiatrist, retired dean of the University of Massachusetts Medical School and author of a best seller, ''On Apology,'' which is about personal apologies, not public ones, said both the public and personal apology share a basic mandate.
 ''In both situations, you have to be specific, you have to say what you did, and you have to ask the offended person not just for forgiveness -- but ask them what you need to do to make things right,'' he said.
 Every apology is a strategic act, Mr. Dorrien. ''People apologize because they want to restore something that's been broken,'' he said.
 In other words, it is a work of art.
 And while critics and experts may look at it a certain way, everyone knows what they like.
 A trenchant analysis of the issue appeared in The New Yorker last year. It was a cartoon: The woman stands over her shoulder-drooped husband. ''I don't want your apology,'' she says. ''I want you to be sorry.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); RELIGION (53%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (77%); JOHN EDWARDS (72%); MARK SANFORD (72%); DAVID LETTERMAN (57%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



586 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Defying Critics, Paterson Opens His Campaign

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. -- Gov. David A. Paterson returned to his boyhood hometown on Saturday and defiantly proclaimed his candidacy for election, portraying himself as a champion of New Yorkers struggling with discrimination and economic hardship. 
 ''So many people are saying I shouldn't run for governor,'' Mr. Paterson told a supportive but relatively subdued crowd of about 400 people at the Hofstra University student center here on Long Island. ''But you need to know that this is a governor that does not quit.''
 Mr. Paterson, who ignored White House pressure to pass up the race, faces the daunting task of building enough political support to win the Democratic nomination. On Saturday, he compared himself to ordinary New Yorkers struggling against the odds: An unemployed sheet-metal worker from Rochester, a black single mother from Queens and a family forced out of East Harlem by gentrification. 
 Like them, Mr. Paterson said, he knew what it was like to be told to give up. And like gays, racial and ethnic minorities and other marginalized groups, Mr. Paterson, who is legally blind, said he understood what it was like ''to challenge the institutions that were, unfortunately, bigoted and ignorant.'' 
 He also denounced what he described as a smear campaign against him. In a veiled reference to Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, who is expected to challenge him for the Democratic nomination, he said the attacks were an effort by his political rivals and special interests in Albany to drive him from the race.
 ''Innuendo and ridicule and false rumors can leave a long and lasting effect,'' he said. ''And it's no surprise that this comes in the middle of a budget process, when special interests have a lot to lose, and at the beginning of a campaign, when other candidates will do anything to win.''
 Those remarks hinted at Mr. Paterson's strategy: to turn political weaknesses -- he has few endorsements and just $3 million in the bank, while Mr. Cuomo has a campaign treasury five times the size of the governor's -- into strengths. 
 Mr. Paterson will remind voters that he has confronted obstacles since he was a boy, when his parents moved to Hempstead because the public schools in New York City could not guarantee him an education without placing him in special education classes. 
 ''I wanted to come back here to Hempstead, which is where I was taught to stand up for myself and to believe in myself,'' Mr. Paterson said, ''in spite of all the voices around me: You can't play sports -- you're blind. You can't go to law school -- you're handicapped. You can't go into public service -- you're disabled.''
 With little formal support from Democratic officials or labor unions, Mr. Paterson hopes to run as the anti-establishment candidate fighting for New Yorkers against Albany insiders, despite the more than two decades he spent in the State Senate. Against Mr. Cuomo's Goliath, Mr. Paterson intends to play David.
 The site Mr. Paterson chose to make his announcement illustrated the underdog nature of his campaign. Forgoing a more formal setting, the governor opted for a multipurpose room at Hofstra's student center, a dimly lighted hall where his supporters sat on metal folding chairs.
 Some of them said Mr. Paterson's determination was the quality they admired most about him.
 ''He's spoken very candidly about not giving up, not quitting,'' said Darrin Green, 42, of Islip Terrace, N.Y. ''You've got to fight the fight, stay true to what you believe in. It's very easy to give up. The hardest thing is to stay in the fight.''
 No statewide elected official joined the governor on Saturday. The rally included officials from Hempstead and members of the Nassau County Legislature, and Mr. Paterson was introduced by the town's mayor, Wayne J. Hall Sr. 
 A spokesman for Kirsten E. Gillibrand, whom Mr. Paterson appointed to the United States Senate, said she had two prior commitments: a fund-raising run for Haiti in Central Park and the annual Chinese New Year parade in Queens. Thomas N. Suozzi, the former Nassau County executive, who is sometimes mentioned as a running mate for Mr. Paterson, was traveling in Florida.
 Richard Ravitch, whom Mr. Paterson appointed as lieutenant governor last summer, has said he is not interested in being on the ticket. The governor's campaign manager, Richard Fife, said Saturday that Mr. Paterson had not set a timetable for choosing a running mate. 
 The rally at Hofstra was the first event in a weekend campaign tour that was to take Mr. Paterson to a union hall in Rochester on Saturday afternoon and a meeting with supporters on Sunday morning at a Greek restaurant outside Buffalo. 
 Next Sunday, he will lead a rally in Harlem that will feature the campaign's first major endorsements, Mr. Fife said. It was pushed back a week, he said, to accommodate supporters, although he would not say who they were. 
 Mr. Paterson is also racing the clock. Three months remain until the state's Democratic convention, where delegates will select the party ticket. Without the support of at least 25 percent of the delegates, Mr. Paterson will be forced to collect thousands of signatures to land on the primary ballot.
 ''You know, it's a tough environment out there right now,'' said Jay Jacobs, who was appointed as chairman of the state Democratic Party by Mr. Paterson last year. ''The mood of the electorate is tough, the current political environment is difficult and the governor is working to ensure that he is getting his poll numbers up and raising money.''
 By nearly any measure, Mr. Paterson faces a steeper climb to election than any incumbent New York governor in recent memory. 
 He is seeking to be elected amid a major fiscal crisis, high unemployment and pervasive public disgust with Albany. And because he has spent most of his adult life in elected office, he may find it difficult to remake himself as a political outsider.
 The governor remains highly unpopular with voters. According to a recent survey by the Marist Institute for Public Opinion, 26 percent of voters approve of his performance as governor, the lowest ratings ever recorded in the poll's 30-year history by an incumbent governor starting an election campaign. Mr. Paterson has lower job-approval ratings now than his predecessor, Eliot Spitzer, did on the day after Mr. Spitzer was implicated in a prostitution scandal.
 Many Democrats have already abandoned him, with some party officials and union leaders saying they will support Mr. Cuomo, who has not formally declared his interest in the job and appears in no hurry to do so. Aides to President Obama, worried about a weak candidate at the top of the New York ticket, made clear last fall that they would prefer Mr. Paterson step aside. And several weeks ago, representatives of more than a dozen county Democratic organizations met in Albany to discuss the governor's prospects in open defiance of Mr. Jacobs, who had sought to delay the gathering. 
 In the months that Mr. Paterson has spent trying to win over his own party, the likely Republican candidate for governor, former Congressman Rick Lazio, has steadily accumulated endorsements and support, and the party is rapidly coalescing behind his candidacy. 
 Assessing the difficulties the governor must overcome to win the nomination, Mr. Jacobs said, ''I can't predict what the ultimate outcome will be.'' 
 Mr. Paterson, however, seemed certain on Saturday that he would prevail. 
 ''I'm not going to give up,'' Mr. Paterson repeated at the end of his speech, as the strains of the song ''Ain't No Stoppin' Us Now'' by McFadden & Whitehead swelled over the loudspeakers. ''I will win the election for governor this year.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson with his wife, Michelle, and Mayor Wayne J. Hall Sr. of Hempstead, N.Y., at the campaign rally Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); ETHNICITY (72%); BLINDNESS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



587 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1869 words

HEADLINE: Why I'm Leaving The Senate

BYLINE: By EVAN BAYH. 
Evan Bayh, the governor of Indiana from 1989 to 1996 and a senator since 1999, announced his retirement from the Senate last week.

 BODY:
BASEBALL may be our national pastime, but the age-old tradition of taking a swing at Congress is a sport with even deeper historical roots in the American experience. Since the founding of our country, citizens from Ben Franklin to David Letterman have made fun of their elected officials. Milton Berle famously joked: ''You can lead a man to Congress, but you can't make him think.'' These days, though, the institutional inertia gripping Congress is no laughing matter.
 Challenges of historic import threaten America's future. Action on the deficit, economy, energy, health care and much more is imperative, yet our legislative institutions fail to act. Congress must be reformed. 
 There are many causes for the dysfunction: strident partisanship, unyielding ideology, a corrosive system of campaign financing, gerrymandering of House districts, endless filibusters, holds on executive appointees in the Senate, dwindling social interaction between senators of opposing parties and a caucus system that promotes party unity at the expense of bipartisan consensus. 
 Many good people serve in Congress. They are patriotic, hard-working and devoted to the public good as they see it, but the institutional and cultural impediments to change frustrate the intentions of these well-meaning people as rarely before. It was not always thus.
 While romanticizing the Senate of yore would be a mistake, it was certainly better in my father's time. My father, Birch Bayh, represented Indiana in the Senate from 1963 to 1981. A progressive, he nonetheless enjoyed many friendships with moderate Republicans and Southern Democrats.
 One incident from his career vividly demonstrates how times have changed. In 1968, when my father was running for re-election, Everett Dirksen, the Republican leader, approached him on the Senate floor, put his arm around my dad's shoulder, and asked what he could do to help. This is unimaginable today.
 When I was a boy, members of Congress from both parties, along with their families, would routinely visit our home for dinner or the holidays. This type of social interaction hardly ever happens today and we are the poorer for it. It is much harder to demonize someone when you know his family or have visited his home. Today, members routinely campaign against each other, raise donations against each other and force votes on trivial amendments written solely to provide fodder for the next negative attack ad. It's difficult to work with members actively plotting your demise.
 Any improvement must begin by changing the personal chemistry among senators. More interaction in a non-adversarial atmosphere would help.
 I'm beginning my 12th year in the Senate and only twice have all the senators gathered for something other than purely ceremonial occasions. The first was during my initial week in office. President Bill Clinton had been impeached and the Senate had to conduct his trial. This hadn't happened since 1868, and there were no rules in place for conducting the proceedings.
 All of us gathered in the Old Senate Chamber. For several hours we debated how to proceed. Finally, Ted Kennedy and Phil Gramm, ideological opposites, were given the task of forging a compromise. They did, and it was unanimously ratified.
 The second occasion was just days after Sept. 11. Every senator who could make it to Washington gathered in the Senate dining room to discuss the American response. The nation had been attacked. The building in which we sat had been among the targets, and only the heroism of the passengers prevented the plane from reaching its destination. We had to respond to protect the country. There were no Republicans or Democrats in the room that day, just Americans. The spirit of patriotism and togetherness was palpable. That atmosphere prevailed for only two or three weeks before politics once again intervened.
 It shouldn't take a constitutional crisis or an attack on the nation to create honest dialogue in the Senate. Let's start with a simple proposal: why not have a monthly lunch of all 100 senators? Every week, the parties already meet for a caucus lunch. Democrats gather in one room, Republicans in another, and no bipartisan interaction takes place. With a monthly lunch of all senators, we could pick a topic and have each side make a brief presentation followed by questions and answers. Listening to one another, absent the posturing and public talking points, could only promote greater understanding, which is necessary to real progress.
 Perhaps from this starting point, we can move onto more intractable problems, like the current campaign finance system that has such a corrosive effect on Congress. In the Senate, raising in small increments the $10 million to $20 million a competitive race requires takes huge amounts of time that could otherwise be spent talking with constituents, legislating or becoming well-versed on public policy. In my father's time there was a saying: ''A senator legislates for four years and campaigns for two.'' Because of the incessant need to raise campaign cash, we now have perpetual campaigns. If fund-raising is constantly on members' minds, it's difficult for policy compromise to trump political calculation.
 The recent Supreme Court ruling in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission, allowing corporations and unions to spend freely on ads explicitly supporting or opposing political candidates, will worsen matters. The threat of unlimited amounts of negative advertising from special interest groups will only make members more beholden to their natural constituencies and more afraid of violating party orthodoxies.
 I can easily imagine vulnerable members approaching a corporation or union for support and being told: ''We'd love to support you, but we have a rule. We only support candidates who are with us at least 90 percent of the time. Here is our questionnaire with our top 10 concerns. Fill it out.'' Millions of campaign dollars now ride on the member's response. The cause of good government is not served.
 What to do? While fundamental campaign finance reform may ultimately require a constitutional amendment, there are less drastic steps we can take to curb the distorting influence of money in politics. Congress should consider ways to lessen the impact of the Citizens United decision through legislation to enhance disclosure requirements, require corporate donors to appear in the political ads they finance and prohibit government contractors or bailout beneficiaries from spending money on political campaigns.
 Congress and state legislators should also consider incentives, including public matching funds for smaller contributions, to expand democratic participation and increase the influence of small donors relative to corporations and other special interests.
 In addition, the Senate should reform a practice increasingly abused by both parties, the filibuster. Historically, the filibuster was employed to ensure that momentous issues receive a full and fair hearing. Instead, it has come to serve the exact opposite purpose -- to prevent the Senate from even conducting routine business.
 Last fall, the Senate had to overcome two successive filibusters to pass a bill to provide millions of Americans with extended unemployment insurance. There was no opposition to the bill; it passed on a 98-0 vote. But some senators saw political advantage in drawing out debate, thus preventing the Senate from addressing other pressing matters. 
 Admittedly, I have participated in filibusters. If not abused, the filibuster can foster consensus-building. The minority has a right to voice legitimate concerns, but it must not employ this tactic to prevent progress on everything at a critical juncture for our country. We need to reduce the power of the minority to frustrate progress while still affording them some say. 
 Filibusters have proliferated because under current rules just one or two determined senators can stop the Senate from functioning. Today, the mere threat of a filibuster is enough to stop a vote; senators are rarely asked to pull all-nighters like Jimmy Stewart in ''Mr. Smith Goes to Washington.'' 
 For this reason, filibusters should require 35 senators to sign a public petition and make a commitment to continually debate an issue in reality, not just in theory. Those who obstruct the Senate should pay a price in public notoriety and physical exhaustion. That would lead to a significant decline in frivolous filibusters.
 Filibusters should also be limited to no more than one for any piece of legislation. Currently, the decision to begin debate on a bill can be filibustered, followed by another filibuster on each amendment, followed by yet another filibuster before a final vote. This leads to multiple legislative delays and effectively grinds the Senate to a halt.
 What's more, the number of votes needed to overcome a filibuster should be reduced to 55 from 60. During my father's era, filibusters were commonly used to block civil rights legislation and, in 1975, the requisite number of votes was reduced to 60 from 67. The challenges facing the country today are so substantial that further delay imperils the Republic and warrants another reduction in the supermajority requirement.
 Of course, the genesis of a good portion of the gridlock in Congress does not reside in Congress itself. Ultimate reform will require each of us, as voters and Americans, to take a long look in the mirror, because in many ways, our representatives in Washington reflect the people who have sent them there. 
 The most ideologically devoted elements in both parties must accept that not every compromise is a sign of betrayal or an indication of moral lassitude. When too many of our citizens take an all-or-nothing approach, we should not be surprised when nothing is the result. 
 Our most strident partisans must learn to occasionally sacrifice short-term tactical political advantage for the sake of the nation. Otherwise, Congress will remain stuck in an endless cycle of recrimination and revenge. The minority seeks to frustrate the majority, and when the majority is displaced it returns the favor. Power is constantly sought through the use of means which render its effective use, once acquired, impossible. 
 What is required from members of Congress and the public alike is a new spirit of devotion to the national welfare beyond party or self-interest. In a time of national peril, with our problems compounding, we must remember that more unites us as Americans than divides us.
 Meeting America's profound challenges and reforming Congress will not be easy. Old habits die hard. Special interests are entrenched. Still, my optimism as I serve out the remainder of my final term in the Senate is undiminished. With the right reforms, members of Congress can once again embody our best selves and our highest aspirations.
 In my final 11 months, I will advocate for the reforms that will help Congress function as it once did, so that our generation can do what Americans have always done: convey to our children, and our children's children, an America that is stronger, more prosperous, more decent and more just.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY THE HEADS OF STATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BASEBALL (79%); FILIBUSTER (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); FAMILY (75%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (74%); POLITICS (73%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); BIRCH BAYH (58%); DAVID LETTERMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



588 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Robert I. Toll

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Toll, 69, is the chairman and chief executive of Toll Brothers Inc., one of the country's largest builders of luxury homes. Toll Brothers was founded by Mr. Toll and his brother, Bruce, in 1967 and became a public company two decades later. The company develops residential communities in 21 states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
 Q The spring selling season is fast approaching. How will the market fare? 
 A I'd say the spring selling season really begins after New Year's. Builders have been reporting good numbers, but a caution: you're comparing them to the worst year on record. Well, I may be overstating, because I can't testify to all of the years -- the 1870s -- but '08 was such a terrible year the numbers are going to look good in comparison.
 Q Does Toll Brothers expect a jump in sales? 
 A Of course we do. Our sales were way up, but remember we were comparing to very down times.
 Q During the down times, how did the New York area hold up compared with other markets? 
 A Much better. It did have a tremendous bubble. Prices did chase up tremendously, but they didn't chase down the way some other overheated markets did. New York City is off, but product is still moving. Recently prices have gone up, maybe about 1 percent. In Connecticut, the market held up very well. And in New Jersey, if you're in a good location, the market's held up.
 Q Has business been helped by the federal tax credits? 
 A It's helped the low end of the market, and to some extent you need the low end to feed the upper end. But it doesn't really impact the guy buying a $500,000 home. It helped give a kick to the business on a psychological basis. On a financial basis, meh.
 Q You've suggested a government program for buyers of new homes. How would that work? 
 A What I was suggesting was that the government missed a tremendous opportunity. The opportunity was there to do what Gerald Ford did in '74-'75 when a Democratic Congress passed what would have been the equivalent of a $15,000 tax credit for the purchase of a new home. Now why not used? When you buy a new home, you put all the excavators and concrete foundation workers, carpenters, plumbers, electricians, roofers, siders, window manufacturers to work. I would guess 20 percent of the work force in one way or another is connected with new housing.
 Q You've operated through myriad cycles. Was this the worst? 
 A By far the worst. In terms of having to contract and let people go and watch the slide in business volume and profits, it's the worst that our company has seen. But then again, we've got like $1.8 billion of cash in the bank so it's hard to cry for yourself.
 Q How did you build such a big war chest? 
 A You stop development, stop buying product, stop buying ground and just bring in money from houses you put out there and already contracted. The debt level is near an all-time low, like 7 to 8 percent.
 Q So you rarely build on 'spec'? 
 A I never really build on spec; I mean, there are exceptions.
 Q I see you just closed a deal with WCI Communities for 102 home sites in East Fishkill. When will you begin development there?
 A Almost immediately. They're nice big single-family lots.
 Q What's the status of the project in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, near the Gowanus Canal? 
 A Well, we don't know. We hope the E.P.A. will not designate the area as a Superfund site. It would really be a shame, especially to the people living in the nearby vicinity, because their values would go down. People think in terms of toxic waste and risk to health.
 Mayor Bloomberg has a great plan to clean the Gowanus, and it's had a tremendous effect. You can actually see fish in that canal now. You also can see a tire and a sneaker, but you can see fish.
 It would be a great place for development. We want to do something like 500 units, and a quarter of the square feet will be for low and moderate, and we had envisioned a neat-looking community over the canal -- unless you label it a toxic waste dump.
 Q How many projects are you working on now? 
 A About 200, down from a high of 315 in '06.
 Q Are you building greener? 
 A We just committed to build a community in California that will be powered from solar panels.
 Q Do you own any Toll homes? 
 A None of them are Toll built -- they're used homes. No, wait! The home in Maine we built ourselves, though it's not a 'Toll home.' We hired up a construction manager for the plans that my wife drew. It's not a big home; it's a cabin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); TAX LAW (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); WINDOW & DOOR MFG (50%)

COMPANY: TOLL BROTHERS INC (94%)

TICKER: TOL (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (94%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (94%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (94%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (94%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (94%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (94%)

PERSON: ROBERT I TOLL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



589 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Modest Won't Do It

 BODY:
Nearly a year ago, as the Obama administration issued a first draft of its plan to reform the financial system, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner forcefully -- and correctly -- declared that anything less than a total overhaul would be inadequate. ''Our system failed in fundamental ways,'' he told Congress. ''To address this will require comprehensive reform. Not modest repairs at the margin, but new rules of the game.'' 
 That is just as true and just as urgent today. Memories may be fading of how close the system came to imploding, but the dangers are still out there. Greece's sovereign debt crisis -- now imperiling Europe -- is the latest reminder, and like the American meltdown, it involves largely unregulated derivatives transactions. Greece used a derivative swap arranged by Goldman Sachs to mask the true size of its public borrowing. 
 And yet, comprehensive reform is in danger of stalling out. The House passed a flawed, though reasonably thorough, bill last December. In the Senate, Republicans have so far blocked movement. 
 Political leadership is essential from Senate leaders and from a White House that must stand up to the bankers and be ready to explain to voters why comprehensive reform is crucial to everyone's financial security. 
 As early as this week, Senator Christopher Dodd, chairman of the banking committee, is expected to unveil a bill that is likely to encompass many essential aspects of reform, including new ways to protect consumers, regulate derivatives, curtail too-big-to-fail firms and police risks that threaten the entire system. 
 Republicans have already signaled their opposition. That has created an opening for the banks to press for piecemeal reform. That is their best hope of scuttling the parts they find objectionable, like an independent consumer financial protection agency, and getting the one change they do want, so-called resolution authority. 
 Resolution authority would give regulators the ability to seize and dismantle any financial firm that is deemed systemically dangerous. JPMorgan Chase and other big banks are confident that such authority would be used only on their rivals and would spare themselves a repeat of their scalding experiences in 2008 when, as they tell it, they were compelled to participate in systemwide bailouts they did not need. 
 Resolution authority is important to ensure that regulators can avoid chaotic failures and costly bailouts. But, by itself, it could create a false sense of control and stability. It will not work unless it is coupled with other reforms, like robust regulation of derivatives and enhanced consumer protection. 
 Until derivatives are traded on exchanges, in full view of the regulators, it will be nearly impossible to assess the systemic risk posed by any given financial firm. Resolution authority also will not be enough to protect the system unless Congress establishes an independent consumer financial protection agency to ensure that mortgages and other products are sound. 
 Such oversight was missing before the financial crisis, when regulators generally allowed banks to sell anything that turned a profit. The result was disastrous subprime lending and other dubious loans. Without a strong consumer protection regime, banks are bound to revert to the pre-crisis status quo when the coast is clear. 
 There are many other examples of how the components of regulatory reform work together -- but not in isolation. President Obama understands this, as does Mr. Dodd. They need to hold their ground when banks and their Republican opponents fight back. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (86%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); EURO CRISIS (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); DEBT CRISIS (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (76%); GREECE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



590 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: A Texas Senator, Now a Challenger Lagging in the Polls

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: DALLAS 

 BODY:
Just a year ago, many Republican leaders considered Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison to be the odds-on favorite to become the next governor of Texas. A popular lawmaker from the old-guard Republican establishment, she was seen as someone who could widen the party's appeal after the setbacks it suffered during the 2008 national election. 
 Back then, the incumbent, Gov. Rick Perry, appeared vulnerable, having won a four-way re-election fight in 2006 and having hitched himself to the most conservative wing of the Republican Party. 
 But the political winds have shifted for Ms. Hutchison in the last few months, and she now finds herself far behind in the polls, as Mr. Perry has managed to surf a wave of anger here over President Obama's policies. 
 Never has a race for governor in Texas so clearly defined the difference between the country-club wing of the Republican Party, where elite business leaders sit astride the financial engines of Dallas and Houston, and the populist Reagan Republicans, talk-radio-fueled voters who are upset about issues like budget deficits, gun control and legalized abortion. 
 In a sense, Mr. Perry is the embodiment of white, conservative Democrats from the South who switched parties after Ronald Reagan's presidency. The son of a West Texas rancher, he was an Air Force pilot before he won a Statehouse seat as a Democrat in 1984. He has never lost a race since.
 Ms. Hutchison, who was first elected to the Senate in 1993, has rallied most of the Republican establishment behind her. Former President George Bush has endorsed her, as has former Vice President Dick Cheney. While former President George W. Bush has not taken a public stand, several people close to him are working for her, among them Karen Hughes, his former political adviser.
 But two weeks before the Republican primary on March 2, Mr. Perry has turned his fortunes around by promoting the Texas economy and railing against every decision in Washington, including the economic stimulus bill, the bank bailout legislation and the move to limit carbon emissions. On the stump, he often sounds as if he is running against the federal government.
 ''Do you want a leader who loves Texas and all it stands for or a creature of Washington that tears down the state?'' he said at a recent rally where former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska endorsed him. The crowd of 5,000 people, many of them from the Tea Party movement, roared in approval. ''I happen to think America would be a whole lot better off if Washington did things the Texas way,'' the governor said. 
 Ms. Hutchison, meanwhile, has hammered at Mr. Perry with accusations of cronyism and influence peddling, saying he supported policies to help companies that have hired former members of his staff. ''I'll close the revolving door on lobbyists, end the backroom dealing and bust up the good-old-boy network,'' she told a Republican club meeting in Denton on Thursday. ''Only a new governor will do this. The governor we have now thinks this is fine.''
 Mr. Perry called the accusations ''a tired, old attack'' and said his aides had always acted ethically. 
 Last week Ms. Hutchison acknowledged that her prospects were in doubt. Accepting the endorsement of Roger Staubach, the former Dallas Cowboys quarterback, she said a Hail Mary pass was ''looking better all the time.''
 Mr. Perry became the lieutenant governor in 1998 and took over the governor's office in 2000 when Mr. Bush won the presidency. Two years later, Mr. Perry won re-election. In 2006, he survived a four-way race, gaining office with 39 percent of the vote.
 This year, Mr. Perry has thrown his lot in with anti-tax crusaders and social conservatives. He has taken every opportunity to use his bully pulpit to bully Congress, the Senate and Mr. Obama, even when the federal government is offering money to the state. 
 Last fall, he rejected new federal money for education and unemployment benefits, saying it would drive up state spending. Last week he announced a court challenge to the Environmental Protection Agency's finding that gases blamed for global warming threaten public health, arguing that the finding would result in harm to the state's economy. 
 Mr. Perry has also hailed the relatively robust state budget, asserting that his conservative approach of low taxes and low spending had produced a balanced budget and an emergency fund of $8 billion when states like California and New York face huge deficits. He also talks frequently about census data showing that Texas is growing faster than any other state.
 ''People are voting with their feet,'' he said. ''This is a very unique place in a very difficult economic time.''
 At times, Mr. Perry seems to be laying the groundwork for a presidential run in 2012, though he firmly denies it. 
 ''It's not going to be me,'' he said in an interview on Thursday. ''I have no interest in going to Washington.'' He adds, ''What I'm really interested in doing is continuing Texas on this path and letting it be a blueprint, a road map for other states to be successful.''
 So relentless has Mr. Perry been in attacking Washington that he has even criticized Ms. Hutchison for steering $8.7 billion in federal projects to Texas over the last five years.
 In response, Ms. Hutchison has offered a series of attacks that seem intently focused on local issues. She criticizes Mr. Perry for the state's high school drop-out rate and for a lack of progress against illegal immigration. 
 She has also tried to make an issue of Mr. Perry's past support for building a network of toll roads, calling it a massive land grab. Finally, she has argued that he is a faux fiscal conservative because taxes and spending rose more than inflation during his tenure.
 ''He's not a conservative,'' she said. ''I'm the conservative in this race.''
 Into the middle of this fray has come a third candidate even more conservative than the other two: Debra Medina, a relatively obscure county Republican leader who wants to abolish property taxes and promises to ignore federal laws she considers unconstitutional. 
 It is a measure of the discontent among conservatives here that Ms. Medina has been rising in the polls and is considered likely to force a run-off between Mr. Perry and Ms. Hutchison.
 Two recent polls, one by the University of Texas and the other by a group of newspapers, have shown that Mr. Perry is the clear front-runner, with more than 40 percent of the vote among people likely to cast ballots. Ms. Hutchison's support was in the range of 20 percent to 30 percent, while Ms. Medina's support has remained in the mid-teens. 
 Republican strategists and political scientists say Ms. Hutchison's attacks have largely missed the mark. 
 ''They keep going after Perry in ways that do not resonate with the general population, but only with insiders,'' said Jim Henson, a political scientist at the University of Texas.
 The winner of the Republican race is likely to face Bill White, a former Houston mayor. He is seen as the front-runner in the Democratic contest, but he faces an uphill battle as Republicans hold an advantage in statewide races.
 Ms. Hutchison acknowledges that a bigger-than-expected turnout is critical to her pulling off an upset. ''I need for the November Republicans to turn out in the primary,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, top, faces a battle in trying to unseat Gov. Rick Perry in the Texas Republican primary. Right, Sheryl Kreick at a campaign stop by Ms. Hutchison. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); AIR FORCES (75%); BUDGETS (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); BAILOUTS (67%); GUN CONTROL (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (52%); ABORTION (52%); EMISSIONS (50%); BANK FAILURES (50%)

PERSON: KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (90%); RICK PERRY (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (88%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



591 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Hoping to Show The G.O.P.'s Role

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Some high-level Democrats are betting that the outcome of President Obama's health care summit meeting this week could hinge on the extent to which they prove to the American public that they have already incorporated Republican ideas into the Democrats' health care legislation. 
 Making that case, the Democrats believe, could establish political legitimacy for pressing ahead with a combined version of the bills adopted late last year by the House and Senate, even if Congressional Republicans continue to oppose the measures. 
 Democrats on Capitol Hill and in the Obama administration in recent weeks have pulled together lists of the Republican ideas that they believe were included in the legislation, or areas of common ground that show Democrats at least adopting variations of health care proposals that Republicans put forward in the past. 
 Republicans, however, are engaged in a different fight. 
 They are not only opposing the bulk of the Democrats' existing bills, but are also rejecting some of their own previous proposals, like the plan in the 2008 presidential campaign by Senator John McCain of Arizona to end the tax exclusion for employer-provided health benefits and replace it with tax credits to help all Americans buy insurance. 
 Democrats say that such arguments are disingenuous, particularly when Republicans harshly criticize proposed reductions in spending on Medicaid after many years of criticizing the Medicaid program and calling for similar reductions themselves. 
 But even as they risk charges of hypocrisy, Republicans are seeking to make the case that given the weak economy, the federal government cannot afford to spend money to extend insurance coverage to millions of Americans, nor should Congress raise taxes on wealthier Americans to provide insurance to those who earn less. 
 While the Congressional Budget Office has projected that the Democrats' bills would reduce future federal deficits, the Republicans insist that those numbers will not hold up -- either because Congress refuses to follow through on proposed spending cuts, or because the tax subsidies that Democrats plan to offer to help moderate-income people buy insurance will be an expensive new entitlement program and spin out of control. 
 The Republicans are increasingly confident that opinion polls showing growing public unease over the Democrats' health care proposals give them the upper hand. They plan to argue that they share Mr. Obama's goal of universal health insurance coverage, but that the country simply cannot afford it and that Congress should move in small steps. 
 Democrats are expected to counter by saying the country has waited long enough to fix a health care system that every president since Harry S. Truman has said is broken. And they will argue in that time, consensus has emerged among policy makers. 
 ''We know where the broad areas of agreement are,'' Mr. Obama said in his weekly radio address on Saturday. ''And we know where the sources of disagreement lie. After debating this issue exhaustively for a year, let's move forward together.''
 He cited two proposals that he said Republicans supported and were ''good ideas'': allowing people to buy insurance from companies in other states and making it possible for small businesses to team up to offer lower-cost health care. 
 But, he said, they had to be pursued ''in a way that protects benefits, protects patients and protects the American people.'' 
 Here are some areas of common ground that Democrats are focused on, based on one document circulating among senior Democratic officials: 
 Tax Exclusion The Senate bill includes a tax on high-cost, employer-sponsored insurance policies that Democrats say effectively ends the tax exclusion for high-end benefits packages in the spirit of Mr. McCain's proposal. 
 Ending the tax exclusion was also included in Republican proposals last year by Senators Tom Coburn of Oklahoma and Richard M. Burr of North Carolina and by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin. 
 The Democrats note that the subsidies they propose to help moderate-income Americans buy insurance are similar to the refundable tax credits Republicans have proposed. 
 But the Republican proposal is different. It would end the tax exclusion for everyone and provide the refundable tax credits for everyone. 
 One question about Thursday's meeting is whether Republicans will still endorse this idea, even as a future step. Ending the tax exclusion could be viewed as a huge tax increase -- it would raise trillions of dollars -- and while some money would be returned in the form of tax credits, net tax revenues would rise. 
 Insurance Exchanges The Democrats' bills call for establishing either national or state-based insurance exchanges, or marketplaces, where consumers could shop for policies, comparing premium prices, out-of-pocket costs and benefits packages. Republican health care bills have also called for creating exchanges. Creating exchanges as a consumer aid should be a relatively easy point of agreement. 
 High-Risk Pools and Reinsurance Most states already have high-risk insurance pools available to people who otherwise cannot obtain insurance. But the premiums are often so costly that coverage remains out of reach. 
 The Democrats' bills would temporarily provide financing for high-risk pools until a law kicks in barring insurers from denying coverage based on pre-existing conditions. The health care bill put forward in November by the House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, would rely even more on high-risk pools, and provide even more money for them. 
 This could be an interesting point of debate at the meeting. Democrats do not see high-risk pools as a long-term solution. Republicans say that improving high-risk pools can moderately increase the number of people with insurance, without creating a complicated new federal program, or insurance mandates.
 Wellness and Prevention Promotion Promoting better health and preventive care is one area of real common ground, though policy makers often disagree about how much government money to spend, and how best to encourage participation. Various proposals call for grants to help employers start programs, including nutrition counseling, preventive tests and fitness. 
 Insurance Market Changes Mr. Boehner's bill called for barring private insurers from setting annual and lifetime spending caps and from revoking coverage through unwarranted ''rescissions.'' The proposal by Senators Coburn and Burr would bar insurers selling policies through new exchanges from denying coverage based on pre-existing medical conditions -- a chief goal of the Democrats' legislation. 
 Mr. Obama has explained how it is virtually impossible to end denials based on pre-existing conditions without requiring most Americans to obtain insurance. Even if Democrats are forced to scale back their legislation, efforts to reform the insurance market are likely to be an area of compromise and a focus of any bill. 
 Selling Insurance Across State Lines In theory, Republicans and Democrats agree that the government should allow the sale of health insurance across state lines as a way of increasing competition and lowering costs. 
 In practice, the two parties have very different ideas about how this should happen. Democrats would establish tight federal requirements for minimum benefits and for other consumer protections, aimed at preventing insurers from simply racing to write their policies in states with the fewest requirements and most lax regulation. 
 Some Republicans say that that defeats the purpose, and that as long as insurance plans are solvent and beneficiaries can appeal decisions, people should be allowed to shop for insurance policies offered in virtually any state. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The House minority leader, John A. Boehner, in January with the Republican health care plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICAID (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TAX LAW (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); BUDGETS (71%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



592 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: The Brain Mistrust

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai writes about national politics for the magazine.

 BODY:
Republicans are feeling buoyant these days, having managed to cut their deficit in the Senate down to 18 seats, which means they can now be a genuine irritant to the Democrats who run the country. And yet there are still those glass-half-empty Republicans who insist on reminding their colleagues that the party is beset by serious problems. It has no discernible governing agenda, for one thing. The party's chairman, Michael Steele, makes Howard Dean look like a model of reticence, and its most charismatic leader is a former governor of a small state -- unless you count the caribou -- who seems more interested in celebrity than in policy. And its establishment is under siege from furious activists who seem to regard all government as tyranny. And so this month a cadre of conservative donors and policy makers -- they include the former Minnesota senator Norm Coleman and the economist Douglas Holtz-Eakin -- stepped forward with an answer to all this: a brand-new think tank. Actually, the American Action Network, as Coleman described it to The Times's Jackie Calmes, is supposed to be a ''think-and-do'' tank, meaning that its mission is not only to synthesize the Republican argument but to aggressively market it as well. 
 The model for this new group is the Center for American Progress, the Democrats' largest such endeavor. The logic here is oddly circular. After all, the first generation of major conservative think tanks, thought incubators like the Heritage Foundation and the American Enterprise Institute, came into being because conservatives thought they needed a counterweight to sprawling liberal foundations endowed by the Fords and the Rockefellers. By the time a group of liberal billionaires tapped John Podesta, Bill Clinton's former White House chief of staff, to establish the Center for American Progress in 2003, the reasoning was that the left needed an answer to the conservative think tanks they credited with having tilted the nation measurably to the right. And now here come the Republicans to sound the alarm again, convinced that nothing they have can possibly rival the influence of Podesta's think tank. Such is the psychology of routed political parties, which are apt to attribute their troubles to the machinations of their adversaries rather than to their own failures or sheer misfortune, and that's a coping mechanism that cuts across all segments of society. The world really would be using Netscape were it not for the devious manipulations of Microsoft. The Orioles would win it every year, if only the Yankees didn't outspend the world.
 And yet think tanks have, in fact, had a serious impact on the country. Parties are hopelessly conformist vehicles, led by men and women who have every incentive to protect old ideas and established orders. The most effective think tanks have been those led by young and fearless activists who confronted the orthodoxies of their day. A couple of 30-something Congressional aides, Edwin Feulner and Paul Weyrich, had the temerity to start the Heritage Foundation in 1973 because they thought their party's leaders too timid in their defense of free enterprise. Spurned by most Republicans, the foundation churned out one argument after another until the election of Ronald Reagan thrust its scholars into the nexus of policy making. 
 Another obscure Congressional wonk, Al From, created the Democratic Leadership Council in 1985 to coordinate an assault on his party's stultified liberal interest groups, on the grounds of both policy and political viability. Within a decade, the D.L.C.'s core argument would come to be known as Clintonism. The Heritage Foundation and the D.L.C. were, arguably, the most influential think tanks in history, the primary shapers of political thought at the end of the broadcast age.
 Both organizations, however, found themselves reduced by their eventual absorption into the cautious mainstream of their parties, and there is a lesson in that for those who would succeed them. Like so much else in Washington, the new prototype of think tank, as embodied by the Center for American Progress, aspires more to operate within the party apparatus than to storm it from without. Podesta's think tank has been extraordinarily effective as a convener of various Democratic constituencies and as a high-tech message machine, and its scholars have generated a mountain of policy ideas to buttress the party's core philosophy, but what it hasn't done is to provoke any fundamental (or necessarily divisive) rethinking of how that philosophy works in a new century. 
 Perhaps the pace and shallowness of our political culture -- the echo chamber of pundits and bloggers in which the shelf life of some new slogan can be measured in weeks or even days -- makes it all but impossible to sustain a serious public argument over a period of years. Something like Francis Fukuyama's 1989 essay on the ''end of history,'' which influenced a generation of conservative foreign policy, probably wouldn't resonate today beyond the next news cycle or partisan branding session. Which is a shame, really, because there is an urgent need, on both the left and the right, to modernize rusting ideologies. 
 Take health care, for example, where Democrats have succeeded in proposing long-needed fixes to the employer-based system of the 20th century -- at exactly the moment that we should be considering the needs of a new century's work force, for whom the link between the workplace and the doctor's office seems increasingly irrelevant. (The one bill that would take apart the old, employer-based model without resorting to a government-run solution, a bipartisan proposal from the Democratic senator Ron Wyden and the Republican senator Bob Bennett, has been largely ignored in Congress.) Parties naturally fear the immediate fallout of radical change. Think tanks are most vital when they demand that we embrace that change, whatever the political consequences.
 Any Republican who hopes to see the American Action Network take such stands shouldn't hope too hard. Like the Center for American Progress, the new group is being run and financed by the superconnected -- campaign operatives and elected officials who move comfortably among the party elite. Their essential point isn't that conservatives are making some tragically flawed argument for the new century, but rather that they aren't arguing their case as effectively as their adversaries. For a movement that aspires to relive its heyday as an intellectual generator, such a think tank is probably not the answer. For a party that's just trying to chisel away at its 18-seat minority, on the other hand, it might work just fine. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT) DRAWING (DRAWING BY HUMAN EMPIRE) GRAPHIC: $1 billion was spent by the Heritage Foundation and other CONSERVATIVE think tanks promoting conservative IDEAS in the 1990s. (DATA SOURCE (TOP LEFT) : NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR RESPONSIVE PHILANTHROPY, 1999) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (79%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNORS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR RESPONSIVE PHILANTHROPY (59%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: NORM COLEMAN (74%); MICHAEL STEELE (59%); BILL CLINTON (59%); JOHN PODESTA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



593 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3024 words

HEADLINE: We're Family, So We Can Disagree

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

DATELINE: Orlando, Fla. 

 BODY:
 HUNDREDS of Xerox sales reps have flown here from around the country for an annual pump-up-the-troops meeting. The main attraction during a marathon day is a face both familiar and new: Ursula Burns. She's an old friend to many of them, and there are plenty of hugs to go around for the people she's grown up with during her 30 years at the company. 
 But there is also a new distance, a new curiosity about what she will do, given that she is no longer just Ursula. 
 She is Ursula M. Burns, the C.E.O. And even though she became chief executive in July, taking the baton from Anne M. Mulcahy, she has been keeping a low profile, spending months working on the details of a huge Xerox bet, the $6.4 billion acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services, an outsourcing company. 
 So her speeches and drop-ins on breakout sessions here are a mix of state-of-the-union messages and coming-out parties. At a meeting with some high-potential managers, she's asked about the legacy she hopes to leave at Xerox. ''It's all about growth,'' she says. ''It's all about getting bigger.'' 
 Asked what has surprised her about her new job, she mentions the flood of attention when she was promoted. Her elevation marked two milestones: the first time an African-American woman was named C.E.O. of a major American corporation, and the first time a woman succeeded another woman in the top job at a company of this size. She tells the group that she briefly enjoyed the spotlight but grew to like it significantly less. 
 ''The accolades that I get for doing absolutely nothing are amazing -- I've been named to every list, literally, since I became the C.E.O.,'' Ms. Burns says. Apart from working on the Affiliated Computer acquisition, she asks, ''What have I done? In the first 30 days, I was named to a list of the most impressive XYZ. The accolades are good for five minutes, but then it takes kind of a shine off the real story. The real story is not Ursula Burns. I just happen to be the person standing up at this point representing Xerox.''
 It's a fair point, and one that might be true at many other big corporations, where the mission is set and the C.E.O. is more of a caretaker. 
 But the story line at Xerox has always had a little more depth and texture -- the bedrock American company whose name became an everyday verb; the convulsive drama after the board's decision to bring in an outsider to take over as C.E.O. in the late '90s; the five-alarm rescue by Ms. Mulcahy, another Xerox lifer, to stabilize the company and to heal the wounds in the ''Xerox family.'' 
 And so, while the Xerox story is not all about Ursula Burns, it is still a lot about her, particularly because there are few visible seams between who she is as a person, her life story and how she plans to lead Xerox. She is taking over at a time when investors are eager to see Xerox build both revenue and earnings. She wants its 130,000 employees to get over the past, take more initiative, become more fearless and be more frank and impatient with one another to ratchet up performance. 
 ''Terminal niceness,'' is how she describes an aspect of Xerox's culture, during her all-hands speech. ''We are really, really, really nice.'' 
 Maybe the ''Xerox family,'' she says, should act a bit more like a real family.
 ''When we're in the family, you don't have to be as nice as when you're outside of the family,'' she says. ''I want us to stay civil and kind, but we have to be frank -- and the reason we can be frank is because we are all in the same family.''
 Nods of recognition ripple across the audience.
 ''We know it. We know what we do,'' she continues, describing meetings where some people present and others just listen. ''And then the meeting ends, and we leave and go, 'Man, that wasn't true.' I'm like, 'Why didn't you say that in the meeting?' '' 
 BY all accounts, Ms. Burns, who is 51, has never been shy about speaking her mind. It's how she wound up working alongside Xerox's top leaders at an early age. 
 She studied mechanical engineering both in college and in graduate school and joined Xerox as a summer intern in 1980. Through her 20s, she worked in various roles in product development and planning.
 In 1989, she was invited to a work-life discussion. Diversity initiatives came up, and somebody asked whether such initiatives lowered hiring standards. Wayland Hicks, a senior Xerox executive running the meeting, patiently explained that that was not true.
 ''I was stunned,'' Ms. Burns recalls. ''I actually told him, 'I was surprised that you gave this assertion any credence.' '' After the meeting, she revisited the issue with Mr. Hicks, and a few weeks later he asked her to meet with him in his office. She figured that she was about to be reprimanded or fired. 
 Instead, Mr. Hicks told her she had been right to be concerned but also wrong for handling it so forcefully. Then he told her he wanted to meet regularly with her.
 ''She was enormously curious,'' Mr. Hicks remembers. ''She wanted to know why we were doing some things at the time, and she was always prepared in a way that I thought was very refreshing.''
 He offered her a job as his executive assistant. It was January 1990, she was 31, and the offer felt like a dead-end. ''Why would I ever want to do that?'' she answered, assuming that the title meant secretary. The job was much more, of course. She would travel with Mr. Hicks, sit in on important meetings, help get things done.
 She accepted, and, Mr. Hicks remembers, they talked a lot about leadership. Mr. Hicks, a vice president overseeing marketing and customer operations, explained the need to manage people in different ways, not to intimidate them, and to make them feel comfortable by listening carefully.
 As she absorbed some of these lessons, Ms. Burns continued to speak her mind inside Xerox -- particularly on an occasion in mid-1991 when the stakes were unusually high. At the time, Paul A. Allaire, Xerox's president, held monthly meetings with top managers, and Ms. Burns and other assistants were invited to sit in (but off to the side).
 Ms. Burns noticed a pattern. Mr. Allaire would announce, ''We have to stop hiring.'' But then the company would hire 1,000 people. The next month, same thing. So she raised her hand. 
 ''I'm a little confused, Mr. Allaire,'' she said. ''If you keep saying, 'No hiring,' and we hire 1,000 people every month, who can say 'No hiring' and make it actually happen?'' 
 She remembers that he stared at her with a ''Why did you ask that question?'' look and then the meeting moved on. 
 Later, the phone rang. Mr. Allaire wanted to see her in his office. She figured that it was not good news. But Mr. Allaire wanted to poach her from Mr. Hicks, so she could be his executive assistant. 
 They, too, would talk about leadership during down time. He didn't want to discourage her candor, but, like Mr. Hicks, he offered tips about how to be more effective -- ''like giving people credit for ideas that they didn't have, but you sold to them, to give them ownership,'' Mr. Allaire recalls advising her.
 After working for Mr. Allaire, Ms. Burns spent much of the 1990s building a track record leading teams in areas like the fax business and office network printing . She was named vice president for global manufacturing in 1999. 
 She no longer had to speak so loudly to be noticed within Xerox, or on the outside. Headhunters started calling.
 ROUGHLY a decade ago, Xerox was in turmoil, the result of misguided strategy shifts, a bloated bureaucracy, a boardroom drama, mountains of debt, a plummeting stock, bankruptcy rumors and the Securities and Exchange Commission crawling all over the company about accounting irregularities. 
 Ms. Burns decided to leave in 2000.
 ''It was not because of more money,'' she says. ''It was just, 'What's going on here? What is this place?' '' 
 Once she told her bosses, she was surprised to find out how much they valued her. Board members told her that abandoning Xerox would be like leaving a sick spouse. If she left, they said, others would take it as a sign that the company was unsalvageable. 
 ''I think that was the first time I said, 'Oh, maybe at some point I could actually become the C.E.O.,' '' she said. 
 She was named a senior vice president in 2000 and became president of two different business groups over the next two years. Ms. Mulcahy told Ms. Burns that she needed her help on the turnaround team. The pair worked closely together for almost a decade in a relationship that both women describe as a true partnership. 
 Ms. Burns was named president of Xerox in 2007, a signal to investors and employees that she was the heir apparent. Ms. Mulcahy started giving her more pointed leadership advice.
 ''On my face, you could tell everything in 30 seconds,'' Ms. Burns says. ''You could tell exasperation. You could tell fed-up-ness. She said, 'You have to develop more of a poker face because people will watch you for everything.' ''
 She got other frank advice along the way -- about polish, patience, perspective and the importance of building ''followership'' across the organization -- from other mentors, including Vernon E. Jordan Jr., the power lawyer and former Xerox director, and Kenneth I. Chenault, the chief executive of American Express. 
 In July of last year, she was named C.E.O. She knew that she had completely misread the public reaction when her cellphone started ringing from people like Jesse Jackson, Al Sharpton and Magic Johnson. She had no idea how they had gotten her number.
 ''I don't even know Magic Johnson,'' she says.
 She and Ms. Mulcahy agreed early on that they would be smart and gracious in the transition, with Ms. Burns putting her own stamp on the company in a way that was deferential to the work of Ms. Mulcahy, who remains chairwoman.
 During her tenure, Ms. Mulcahy focused on cleaning up the balance sheet, strengthening ties to customers and getting out of commodity businesses like desktop printers. 
 As she was putting the house in order, Xerox was moving upmarket, into more profitable services -- broader contracts to handle all of a big corporate customer's business processes, for example. That's what led to Xerox's bid for Affiliated Computer. 
 But Xerox urgently needs to build revenue (sales dropped 14 percent, to $15.2 billion, in 2009) and to perk up its stock price, which remains below $10 a share after spending a long stretch of the last decade above that mark. 
 That's given Ms. Burns license to pound the table for more-better-faster.
 ''I was fortunate that we had an economic crisis right when I was taking over,'' she says. ''I'm serious. Without that, it would be significantly more touchy.''
 All the leadership advice she's received through the years is now being put to the test. Some of it she has decided to ignore.
 ''One of the things that I was told early on is that you should never let them see you sweat,'' she says. ''I remember hearing that and saying: 'Oh, my God! I think that they have to see you sweat.' ''
 ''I cannot be viewed as the solution to all problems in this company,'' she adds.
 She has also punted advice that she adjust her speaking style. It was too New York, people told her -- too fast, too informal. Instead, she makes sure that her speeches sound like her and avoid the use of $10 words -- like, she says, ''bespoke.''
 ''What I realized was I have to know my content and know what I want to say, and be significantly less concerned about how I say it,'' she says. ''I can't try to say it in somebody else's voice. I have to say it in my voice.''
 In her biggest speech of the day to the sales reps in Orlando, she talks about ''fearlessness.'' 
 ''That doesn't mean recklessness,'' she says. ''This is something I live by all the time and one of the things I want to change.'' 
 ''Decide,'' she implores the group. ''Do things.'' 
 She is adjusting to life as C.E.O. She used to roll up her sleeves with colleagues to puzzle through messy problems. Now people come to her with solutions.
 ''People actually believe that before they come to you that they have to have perfection,'' she notes. ''I get the neatest presentations in the world.''
 Ms. Burns is now building her team. She sets a clear hurdle for anyone Xerox is considering from the outside. By the time candidates get to her, their skills have been thoroughly vetted. But she asks this main question: ''What is it that you see in this company that you love -- that you can love -- you can grow to love?''
 And if you ask her for a new assignment, a promotion into a new role, you're likely to hear the speech she first heard long ago from Mr. Hicks about ''getting to zero'' with a job. 
 To explain, she picks up a piece of paper and draws a line across it. She shades an area below the left end of the line.
 ''When you start the job, whatever it is, you have to find out who the secretary is, where the bathrooms are, who your teammates are,'' she says. ''Trust me, for a lot of time you are operating below zero.''
 She then points to the middle stretch of the line.
 ''This is when most people want to leave a job,'' she adds. ''They say: 'I'm done. I know everything. I'm done.' But think about that. If you left there, basically all this area under the curve, which is negative, which is take-away, you owe the company all of that. Then you do this for six more months, and you can operate the place smoothly, but you haven't really transformed it in the ways that you can help to transform it.''
 She starts shading an area above the line to the right. That represents what a manager is expected to contribute -- what to give back -- after absorbing all of the training and experience that exists below the left side of the line. The balance amounts to ''getting to zero.''
 ''You can only leave after you put in as much above the curve as under the curve. Unfortunately, that usually takes more than a day, and it takes a couple years,'' Ms. Burns says. ''People would come in to me and say: 'You put me in this developmental assignment. I know how to run the place now. Thank you. Can I go to the next one?' I say: 'Well, how about all the stuff that you owe us? How about getting settled in for a little while longer and then start to transform it?' ''
 AFTER a long day in Orlando, Ms. Burns settles into her seat on the corporate jet for the two-hour flight home. 
 Despite the long day, she's up for more questions. What were her big influences before she joined Xerox? The answer, she says, is ''150 percent my mother. My mother was pragmatic, focused and extremely, exceedingly practical, and she was the ultimate self-determining person.''
 Her family (her father was never in her life) lived on the Lower East Side of Manhattan -- ''when it was really bad, when the gangs were there and the drug addicts were there.''
 Her mother made ends meet by looking after other children. She also ironed shirts for a doctor who lived down the street and cleaned his office, bartering for things like medicine and even cleaning supplies. She had many sayings -- and she repeated them, often in blunt terms, over and over.
 ''Where you are is not who you are,'' she would tell Ms. Burnsand her brother and sister. ''Don't act like you're from the gutter because you live in a place that's really close to the gutter.'' 
 There were clear expectations. 
 ''She was very, very black-and-white and very clear about what responsibilities we had,'' Ms. Burns recalls. ''One was that we had to be good people. And the second thing is that we had to be successful. And so her words for success were, 'You have to give' -- and she would say this all the time -- 'more than you take away from the world.' '' 
 Her mother, who died before she could see her daughter rise to the top at Xerox, also insisted that her children get a college education. ''You have to learn and you have to be curious,'' she would say. ''You have to perform at your best. You have to worry about the things you can control. Don't become a victim.''
 It was a theme that Ms. Burns herself touched on in her talks to Xerox employees earlier in the day. The lousy economy, the past dramas at Xerox -- it was time to move on. She repeated one of her mother's sayings to them: ''Stuff happens to you, and then there's stuff that you happen to.'' 
 Grammarians might take issue with the phrasing, but the message stuck. 
 ''Stuff that happens to you, please, let's talk about it for five minutes, and you can cry, and let's go through that, the healing process,'' she says. ''But then it's kind of done. I can't hear about that two years from now.''
 Ms. Burns has a lot more money now than she did as a child. As president in 2008, she was paid $887,500 in salary, a $554,688 bonus and about $4 million in stock, according to an S.E.C. filing. (Her pay for 2009 is not yet public.) 
 Even so, she'll still show up in line at the grocery store in Rochester, where she's lived for roughly 25 of her 30 years with Xerox (and where the company has more than 7,000 workers). She lives there with her husband, Lloyd Bean, and teenage daughter, Melissa -- her son, Malcolm, is a junior at M.I.T., studying nuclear sciences and math -- when she's not working out of Xerox headquarters in Norwalk, Conn. Neighbors at home sometimes do a double-take when they see her at the store.
 ''They say to me all the time, 'You shop for yourself?' And I say, 'Exactly who would be shopping for me?' '' 
 A housekeeper comes in just once a week, and Ms. Burns will often do the laundry herself, knowing that it sends a good message to her daughter, a high school senior. ''There's a little bit of this childhood kind of poverty -- you know, pragmatism -- that you never can get rid of.''
 It's close to 11 p.m., and the jet touches down in White Plains. Leaving the small corporate-jet terminal with her luggage, she walks toward a black Mercedes that is idling at the sidewalk. She walks past it -- it's waiting for someone else on another plane -- and heads to her own car in a nearby parking lot. She grabs her keys, loads her bag in the back and drives herself home. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ursula M. Burns, the chief executive of Xerox, says she wants its employees to take more initiative and be more fearless and frank with one another. Niceness, she says, has its limits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
 Anne M. Mulcahy, left, was Xerox's C.E.O. before Ursula Burns, right. They worked together closely for years and built what both call a true partnership. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU9) CHART: After the Tumult, Looking for Growth For many years, Xerox dominated the copier market, helped by an unparalleled direct sales force, and was known as a technology innovator. But growing competition from low-cost computer printers, a failure to capitalize on its innovations and management missteps rocked the company a decade ago. (Source: Bloomberg (stock price))(BU9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); OUTSOURCING (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (64%)

COMPANY: AFFILIATED COMPUTER SERVICES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (56%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%)

PERSON: URSULA M BURNS (90%); ANNE MULCAHY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



594 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; GENERATION B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Keeping the Plates Spinning

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: generationb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
NORWICH, Conn.
 IN February 2007, Nina Lentini became the editor of Marketing Daily, a five-day-a week online trade newsletter that covers the advertising and marketing industries.
 She had one full-time reporter, who wrote two articles and two news briefs a day for her, and four paid freelancers, who each wrote one story a day. And she herself reported an article daily, on the food and beverage industries.
 At age 57, Ms. Lentini has spent most of her career in print journalism (as a reporter for The News-Times in Danbury, a copy editor at The Daily News in New York and The Bulletin in Philadelphia, and a managing editor at Adweek and The Norwich Bulletin).
 After seven years away, working in public relations at Connecticut College, she was delighted to return to the news business she loves. The hours were regular (9 to 6), she could work out of her home (she writes on a laptop at her kitchen counter) and she was able to be there for her two teenage daughters. 
 Then in the summer of 2008, a management committee at MediaPost, Marketing Daily's Manhattan-based parent company, which produces more than 50 e-newsletters, asked her to start one aimed at what it called ''the burgeoning Hispanic demographic.'' There would be no extra money; Ms. Lentini's job would be to find executives and bloggers familiar with the Hispanic market who'd be willing to write, unpaid, in exchange for links to their sites and mentions of their businesses in an accompanying bio.
 MediaPost was ''looking for new revenue streams,'' she said. ''The ad guy said, 'I can sell ads for this.' ''
 In August 2008, Engage: Hispanics, a weekly, made its debut. Soon after, Ms. Lentini was asked to start another weekly, for the children's market. ''The ad guy said, 'I can sell ads for that,' '' she recalled, and using the same model of finding writers who would work free, in October 2008 Ms. Lentini introduced Engage: Kids 6 to 11.
 That was followed by Marketing: Green; Engage: Moms; Engage: Boomers; Engage: Gen Y; Marketing: Sports; Marketing Tools: CRM; and the two newest, unveiled earlier this month, Marketing: Travel and Marketing: Health.
 In 18 months, Ms. Lentini went from editing one daily newsletter to still editing that one, as well as the 10 weeklies that generated new ad revenue at no extra cost to her company. Of course, there was a cost: her free time. ''It's, 'How many plates can I keep going?' '' she said. ''You're giddy with hysteria.''
 She now starts at 7:30 a.m. instead of 9, and works Saturday and Sunday mornings. The night of the Super Bowl, she finished at 11. When she was first hired, she had money to pay someone to fill in during her two vacation weeks. That ended with the recession, so now she doubles her workload the week before vacation. Holidays? ''I work most holidays,'' she said.
 Even while driving one of her daughters to an after-school job as a hair salon receptionist, Ms. Lentini works. ''Bridget holds the laptop,'' she said. ''She'll say, 'Mom, you got an I.M. from the photo editor.' She'll read it to me, I'll say, 'Just put 'O.K.,' and write 'tx' for thanks. So I can work and drive.''
 Ms. Lentini is not complaining. In this economy, she feels lucky to have a job that pays a good middle-class wage. (She won't reveal how much but says that she earns a five-figure salary comparable to that of a journeyman big-city reporter.)
 Her husband, Richard Norman, also a journalist, quit The Day in New London a few years ago, as the hours became worse and the work less satisfying, and now has a security job at the Mohegan Sun casino.
 ''I understand everybody works like this now,'' Ms. Lentini said. ''I don't feel I have mean bosses. I like my bosses -- people care about each other at this company. This is just the new reality.''
 That's the problem for boomers: They remember the old reality. Twenty years ago, Ms. Lentini ran a similar trade newsletter for Adweek. It came out from Tuesday to Friday, and in those days, instead of being sent to readers by e-mail, it was delivered by messenger in Manhattan and by fax around the country. All her writers were full-time staff members, working in bureaus across the United States.
 ''I worked 10 to 7,'' she recalled. ''We took long lunches, they were nice days. When you went home, that was the end of it, you didn't think about work. Didn't worry about it. You had another separate life that didn't include work. I don't think young people could imagine it today. You got two or three weeks' vacation -- real vacation. Sick leave. We never worked on weekends.''
 Sometimes, she added, ''I wish I could go back and live one of those days over.''
 In the modern workplace, she is consumed with calculating how to do more with less. After adding the first four weekly newsletters, she no longer had time to write her daily article, and so she assigned her beats to her freelancers. She also asked them to start writing daily briefs. And when the Web sites were upgraded, they had to provide a photo with each article. ''We're asking more of them, and frankly we're not paying them more. But they do it, because we're a team and they're nice people.''
 The 10 new weeklies are anchored by an essay, which means that she has to find 40 people a month who will write free -- and who can write. Barry Janoff, 57, a former editor at Nielsen's Brandweek magazine who was laid off last year, writes for Marketing: Sports because Ms. Lentini links to his new Web site, NYSportsJournalism.com, a move that he hopes will boost viewer traffic. (Asked how his new entrepreneurial Web life compared with his old, steady job, he said, ''It's a challenge.'')
 Ms. Lentini limits essays to 600 words. ''With people's free time decreased by Tweets and Facebook posts, most don't have time to read the stories, just the headlines and the blurbs,'' she said. ''The only ones who want to read every last word are the people in the stories.''
 On a recent Friday, she scheduled for the following week an essay sent in by a public relations person on behalf of a C.E.O., though she hadn't read it yet. ''I have him penciled in for Wednesday,'' she said. ''What's it about? I can't remember, I have so many. I make these decisions based on a gut feeling. After all, I'm not buying this. He's president of a company, he must know something.'' She planned to read it the following Tuesday.
 To cut her workload, she has built a list of 20 people who contribute on a monthly basis. She tries to make sure that they don't have ethical conflicts. ''At first, I didn't realize some were using what they wrote to sell their services and clients,'' she said. So she posted a set of guidelines requiring all copy to be ''non-promotional'' and ''vendor neutral.''
 Still, conflicts persist. When I asked her for contributors to speak with, she suggested Stephanie Piche, who writes for Engage: Moms. Two of the three articles that Ms. Piche has written extol the virtues of MomTV.com, a video site that Ms. Piche co-founded. One piece praises Maria Bailey -- the other founder of MomTV.
 ''I didn't know about that,'' Ms. Lentini said of Ms. Bailey's involvement. ''They keep us on our toes.''
 ''They're looking out for their best interests,'' she added, ''and we're trying to do journalism. I'll have to speak to her.''
 Joe Mandese, the editor in chief of MediaPost, said that all of his journalists are paid, and that unpaid pieces, like the essays, are considered op-eds written by industry experts. ''There's a quid pro quo,'' he said. ''They see a value in exposing their ideas to our audience.''
 He said that he believes his journalists' workload is reasonable, pointing out that when he started years ago at The New Haven Register, he wrote articles and took photos. ''They don't have to do it if they don't want,'' he said.
 Ms. Lentini does not beat herself up over these things. ''We're doing the best we can with the resources we have,'' she said. But like a lot of us, she worries for journalism's future. ''I wonder, when the economy improves and everyone has more money, do we go back to the way it was? Or are they going to say: 'Why hire more people? You did it yourself.' That's what I'd say if I were the boss.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); YOUTH MARKET (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); GENERATION Y (78%); WRITERS (78%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); SPORTS MARKETING (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); CHILDREN (67%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%)

COMPANY: MEDIAPOST SA (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541870 ADVERTISING MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010



595 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: A New Exit To Space Readies For Business

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: UPHAM, N.M. 

 BODY:
 Take Highway 51 east out of Truth or Consequences, a small city that years ago assumed the name of a game show on a dare. Drive through miles and miles of desert, then turn right at an old train depot whose bustle has long since pulled out. Keep going.
 After eight miles, turn left on a dirt road that leads deeper into the sage and yucca vastness of New Mexico, past a ranch that used to be a stage stop on an ancient trade route called El Camino Real. Soon after, you will come to your destination: the future.
 Here, where rattlesnakes hibernate and rabbits scurry, there unfolds a two-mile runway designed to accommodate spaceships. And right beside it, past those giant rumbling tractors of sci-fi design, the groundwork is being laid for a hangar large enough to store spaceships between launchings.
 This is not a secret government project, or some NASA reception hall for alien dignitaries. This is Spaceport America, a $198 million endeavor by the State of New Mexico to plumb the commercial potential of the suborbital heavens -- a place once known only to astronauts, dreamers and the occasional chimp. 
 Space tourism. Scientific research. Satellite deliveries. All possible up there, where the stars glitter like spilled coins. Who knows? One day you might decide to skip another two-week vacation in the Wisconsin Dells for a two-hour trip into space. Fly Virgin Galactic. See the sights from as high as 80 miles up. Five minutes of weightlessness guaranteed. Just $200,000.
 President Obama's call last month for fundamental changes in the mission of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration seemed to open the door, or roof, ever wider to private industry. Some people here interpreted his words to mean that your seat back and tray table should be in their full upright positions, because commercial space travel is about to blast off.
 And this flat, deserted, mostly rain-free stretch of New Mexico is the perfect location, says Will Whitehorn, the president of Virgin Galactic, the spaceport's anchor tenant. ''It is about the closest you get on planet Earth to a Martian landscape,'' he says .
 Southern New Mexico has long held claim to the skies, thanks in part to pioneers with local ties, like Robert Goddard, a father of modern rocketry; J. P. Stapp, a leader in aerospace safety; and Ham, the space chimp.
 You might also include Gary Whitehead, 43, affable car salesman from Truth or Consequences, though not because his family's dealership was once owned by the former astronaut Frank Borman. Mr. Whitehead, a longtime public servant, has been championing a spaceport in New Mexico since 1994.
 Back then he was a freshly elected member of the Sierra County Commission, captivated by an entity that had been created by various visionaries and politicians. Its understated name: the Southwest Regional Space Task Force. Its over-the-top goal: to have a spaceport built in southwestern New Mexico one day. 
 Mr. Whitehead wanted in, so he created a space task force for Sierra County. Word soon spread that if you wanted a deal on a car, or information about the economic possibilities of the great beyond, Gary Whitehead was the man to see.
 Few people in Truth or Consequences dismissed the spaceport plan as ''crazy Buck Rogers stuff,'' Mr. Whitehead recalls. Then again, this is the sleepy spa city that, in 1950, changed its name from Hot Springs because Ralph Edwards, the host of ''Truth or Consequences,'' promised to broadcast from the first town to adopt his radio show's name.
 (Over the years the city has voted to keep the name, perhaps as a way of giving thanks that the offer had not come from, say, ''Bowling for Dollars.'' It has also named a park after Mr. Edwards, who for a half-century returned every year to celebrate the city that called his bluff.)
 The concept of a spaceport remained just that for many years, even though it seemed to make perfect sense. An 18,000-acre stretch of the Cain family ranch was an ideal location for a spaceport. The restricted airspace of the White Sands Missile Range meant uncluttered skies for launchings. And with the high elevation, you could argue that a space launching's first mile was free.
 Finally, about five years ago, things began to click. Since then, New Mexico has added the spaceport to its economic development plan; Virgin Galactic, the commercial space travel business of the British billionaire Richard Branson, has signed a 20-year lease; construction has begun; and 326 people have placed reservations for their trip to suborbital space. Virgin Galactic says it has received $44 million in deposits so far.
 What's more, most residents here seem open to the idea. Two of three local counties have voted to support a sales tax to help pay for the space project, including Sierra County, where Mr. Whitehead was a co-chairman of a lobbying campaign called People for Aerospace.
 By now, Spaceport America has been part of the local conversation for so long that it stirs about as much excitement as a new Applebee's. Last year, for example, The Las Cruces Sun-News published a headline that read: ''Spaceport, Animal Shelter Board Members Chosen.''
 Mr. Whitehead, though, has gone from ho-hum to wow. At first he saw the project merely as a way to lift the local economy, he says. But as the project took shape, he felt awe. ''It became, 'Gee whiz,' '' he says.
 Mr. Whitehead, who was recently appointed to the state's Spaceport Authority, which is overseeing the project, checks in at the village of construction trailers that have cropped up amid the desert brush. Accompanied by Dave Wilson, a marketing consultant, he leads a quick hardhat tour, past signs that say ''Caution: Equipment Crossing'' and ''Authorized Launch Personnel Only.''
 Right here, where the ground is being cleared, or ''grubbed,'' will be the 110,000-square-foot Terminal Hangar Facility, which will also include administrative offices. And here, close to the unfolding ribbon of runway, is where a groundbreaking ceremony in June featured actors dressed as Old World explorers and dignitaries discussing the New World discovery of the heavens. 
 And here, not far from the home of a ranch hand, is the Vertical Launch Facility, where several space vessels have been shot into the sky. One, in 2007, contained some of the cremated remains of dozens of people, including the astronaut Gordon Cooper and James Doohan, who played Scotty in ''Star Trek.''
 Of course, the hope is to send people, not ashes, into space. This could -- could -- happen as early as 2011, although Virgin Galactic says that it is concentrating first on matters of licensing and, especially, safety. 
 Still. Imagine. A mothership named Eve zooms off the runway and 50,000 feet into the sky, where it releases a smaller spaceship, the Enterprise, that rockets higher still. High enough for the two pilots and six paying customers to see the curvature of the Earth, and hear the silence of space. 
 Imagining this is not difficult for Mr. Whitehead. His problem, he says, is convincing people that ''there's more to this than rich people flying to space.'' These customers, he says, will effectively be underwriting the possibility for space research, space education and all sorts of ''space-related businesses.'' 
 Imagine.
 The tour ends, and is followed by a long trip back to Truth or Consequences, where the lot at Whitehead Chevrolet is filled with earthbound vessels, new and used. But the artwork on display inside -- Van Gogh's mysterious night skies -- reflects the starry, starry dreams of a car dealer in a place known to accept dares.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE FINAL FRONTIER: A lunar landing pad, above, used in model competitions near the New Mexico construction site for Spaceport America. Gary Whitehead, left, a businessman and longtime public servant from nearby Truth or Consequences, has been championing a spaceport since 1994. Few in his town, bottom left, dismissed the proposal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (73%); DESERTS (72%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (51%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (96%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MARS (79%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010



596 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LINK BY LINK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: A Vision of Iceland as a Haven for Journalists

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
ICELAND, where the journalists run free.
 A banking scandal nearly bankrupted this tiny island nation (population: barely 300,000) little more than a year ago, but Iceland is considering a new vision: to become a haven for journalists and publishers by offering some of the most aggressive protections for free speech and investigative journalism in the world. 
 The proposal, the Icelandic Modern Media Initiative, combines in a single piece of legislation provisions from around the world: whistle-blower laws and rules about Internet providers from the United States; source protection laws from Belgium; freedom of information laws from Estonia and Scotland, among others; and New York State's law to counteract ''libel tourism,'' the practice of suing in courts, like Britain's, where journalists have the hardest time prevailing. 
 ''We would become the inverse of a tax haven,'' said Birgitta Jonsdottir, a member of Parliament and a sponsor of the initiative. ''They are trying to make everything opaque. We are trying to make it transparent.'' 
 For many observers, this legislation represents a direct reversal of recent Icelandic history. Secret dealings by a few banks in Iceland, combined with a lack of regulation and oversight, led to calamitous debts that were nine times the gross domestic product. In response, Iceland would institutionalize the most aggressive sunshine laws possible. 
 There are 19 sponsors of the media initiative in the Althing, Iceland's Parliament; that is about a third of the membership, representing all parties on the political spectrum, Ms. Jonsdottir said. The legislation is set to be debated this week. While the left-leaning government that took power after the crisis can have no official position on the proposal, she said, presumably it would be sympathetic to the idea. 
 The plan to make Iceland a world leader in journalism protection took shape in December with the assistance of two leaders of the whistle-blower Web site Wikileaks.org, Julian Assange and Daniel Schmitt, whose publish-nearly-anything ideology has given them personal experience with news media laws around the globe. 
 They outlined the idea at the annual meeting of the Icelandic Digital Freedoms Society, and relocated there in January to help local advocates and politicians draft the legislation. 
 The pitch was, in part, practical: much the way businesses relocate to countries like the Cayman Islands or Switzerland to take advantage of legal protections and shield laws for bank accounts, publications would relocate to Iceland -- or at least relocate their computer servers that publish their Web sites -- in order to get the benefits, and gain access to Iceland's plentiful energy resources. 
 ''Iceland could become an ideal environment for Internet-based international media and publishers to register their services, start-ups, data centers and human rights organizations,'' reads the Web site, which explains the proposal and answers questions about it. ''It could be a lever for the economy and create new work employment opportunities.''
 But, of course, there is a strong moral claim being made as well. And the timing for such an appeal was ideal, said Smari McCarthy of the digital freedoms organization. The population was shaking off the shock of the economic crisis and dealing with the humiliation of needing financial assistance from European neighbors.
 ''Throughout the run-up to the crisis -- the bubble -- people were so excited with what they were doing,'' said Mr. McCarthy, who has an Irish parent but has lived in Iceland since he was 11. ''Suddenly that dream disappears. People had the option of sinking into some sort of sadness about it, some national depression, or the alternative, trying to figure out a new way of doing things.''
 To some experts on how the Internet is changing media law, the Iceland initiative should be hailed more for its bold thinking than for offering genuine legal protection. 
 ''The proposal is largely symbolic -- which is not to say unimportant,'' said David Ardia, who runs the citizen media law project at the Berkman Center of Harvard Law School. ''Its impacts are likely to be felt long term.''
 For example, he praised the wisdom of offering a package of proposals touching on how news is gathered, distributed and read -- thus, issues like Internet privacy, protection for search engines and compensation for defending frivolous lawsuits are all considered part of protecting free speech. 
 ''There is a value in thinking holistically about creating an environment to foster good journalism,'' he said. ''Institutions of power have shown a willingness to use their power to stop reporting they don't like -- anything that levels the playing field is a good thing.'' 
 He was more skeptical, however, of the idea that Icelandic law could protect journalism as it was practiced somewhere else, simply because of legal registration or where Internet servers were located. 
 ''Obviously Iceland can't pass a law that could affect the domestic laws of another country -- that changes the law in China, Pakistan or Turkey,'' he said. 
 ''It can say that its courts won't enforce a judgment rendered in another country's courts,'' he added, but as long as the publication has resources in that country, it would be vulnerable. ''Most journalism is done on the ground -- it is great that servers get these protections, but it won't help local sites.''
 That such an unprecedented package of protections has a chance of passing is a reflection of how the crisis realigned Iceland's politics, a fact typified by the ascendance of Ms. Jonsdottir, a 42-year-old writer, designer and Internet activist. 
 In an interview from the capital, Reykjavik, she described a peripatetic life that included a brief stint selling Kirby vacuum cleaners in New Jersey. Before entering Parliament in April, she said, she was translating and designing books, and organizing protests about Tibet outside the Chinese Embassy. 
 Two-thirds of the members of Parliament, like her, have been serving less than two years, she said. 
 ''I would never have decided to go for Parliament, if there wasn't a crisis,'' she said. Her party, the Movement, was created barely eight weeks before the election, and despite having little money, gained 7 percent of the vote.
 Now Ms. Jonsdottir holds regular meetings with the prime minister, and is taking up the task of shepherding the media-protection proposal out of committee and into law. 
 ''Legislation tends to go into a long, deep coma in committee, and all of my effort will be to get it out of committee,'' she said. ''The good thing about being new in Parliament is not knowing the traditions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Birgitta Jonsdottir, from left, a member of Parliament and a sponsor of a media initiative, with Julian Assange of Wikileaks.org in Reykjavik this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JO STRAUBE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); WRITERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SCANDALS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (89%); RELOCATIONS (85%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (78%); WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION (77%); SUNSHINE LAWS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); LIBEL & SLANDER (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); POLITICS (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); NETWORK SERVERS (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

PERSON: JULIAN ASSANGE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ICELAND (99%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); ESTONIA (72%); SWITZERLAND (70%); BELGIUM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010



597 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: A Campaign To Leaven The Mood

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
ALMOST 75 years ago, the fashion editor Diana Vreeland began captivating, puzzling and amusing a Depression-weary nation with a column in Harper's Bazaar magazine called ''Why Don't You ... '' She offered suggestions that were breezy -- ''Why don't you tie black tulle bows on your wrists?'' -- or profligate -- ''Why don't you turn your old ermine coat into a bathrobe?'' 
 Some items even provoked dropped jaws, as in ''Why don't you rinse your blond child's hair in dead Champagne to keep its gold, as they do in France?'' 
 Now, during times deemed almost as hard as those, Saks Fifth Avenue is introducing a campaign inspired by Ms. Vreeland's maxims, although more grounded in the practical. The campaign, which carries the theme ''Think about ... ,'' includes print and online advertisements, catalogs, signs in stores, e-mail marketing, events, direct mail and social media like Facebook.
 ''For six seasons, we did a campaign called 'Want it,' '' said Terron Schaefer, group senior vice president for marketing and creative at Saks in New York. ''When the economy started to collapse, we thought it was too aggressive.''
 The new campaign, by comparison, is meant to ''make light of things, not be so ponderous and heavy,'' said Mr. Schaefer, a longtime fan of Ms. Vreeland's. He described the tone as ''a little bit tongue-in-cheek, audacious, extravagant.''
 The Saks campaign is indicative of a trend on Madison Avenue to evoke elements of the dire days of the Depression to signal to consumers an understanding of what they are going through today -- as well as to reassure them that current difficulties, like the Depression, will be history someday.
 For instance, in a commercial for Allstate that is appearing during the NBC coverage of the Vancouver Winter Games, men, women and children quote from the 1933 Inaugural Address of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, closing with, ''The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.''
 The Allstate spokesman, the actor Dennis Haysbert, then appears on camera. ''Uncertainty will not rule our lives when we put our lives in good hands,'' he says, echoing the Allstate slogan.
 Other examples include a campaign from Brooks Brothers, the clothing retailer, that reprinted its newspaper ads from years like 1934, and a campaign for Soyjoy bars that mentioned the Dust Bowl and how the Depression ''turned the land of opportunity into a land of despair.'' 
 The ads for Saks Fifth Avenue do not invoke doom, much less gloom, although several would not have seemed out of place in the 1930s.
 ''Think about ... belting a new tunic with your husband's old tie,'' one ad suggests. Another ad advises, ''Think about ... dressing up a tee with an overlooked family heirloom -- try your grandmother's classic pearls or an over-the-top brooch.''
 Some advice seems as silly as Ms. Vreeland's more outre observations. ''Think about ... choosing a red trench coat to match the evening's Beaujolais,'' one ad proposes. Another ad offers, ''Think about ... being him for a day -- read his magazines, use his razor and wear one of his button-downs over leggings.''
 (Think about that one, ladies, and you may be ready for this one: ''Think about ... adopting a pet -- who needs a boyfriend anyway?'')
 However the ads are judged, they are intended to be conversational, said Kimberly Grabel, senior vice president for marketing at Saks.
 The goal is to make them ''less intimidating and more accessible'' than conventional fashion pitches, she added, by infusing them with ''a little wit and whimsy.''
 That can help diminish perceptions that Saks is too expensive to shop at during an economic downturn. ''These are serious times, but we will have a little fun,'' Ms. Grabel said.
 ''You can feel just as good buying a lipstick as a designer dress,'' she added.
 Mr. Schaefer quoted a statement by Ms. Vreeland about style in support of that philosophy. Ms. Vreeland declared style was ''a way of life'' and ''without it you're nobody,'' he said, but she was careful to add this: ''I'm not talking about a lot of clothes.'' 
 As an upscale retailer, Saks has been among those hit hardest by the recession. The company is to release on Wednesday results for the fourth quarter, which are expected to show a loss on lower sales. Sales at Saks stores open at least a year -- a measure of retailer health known as same-store sales -- fell 26.1 percent in November compared with November 2008. 
 But Saks's same-store sales rose 9.9 percent in December compared with December 2008, and 7 percent in January compared with January 2009.
 To help maintain that momentum, the campaign asks shoppers to ''Think about ... '' pursuing some activities that are Saks-centric. 
 For example, one ad asks, ''Think about ... stopping by the Saks beauty counter for a touch-up before an evening out.'' Another suggests, ''Think about ... celebrating your birthday at Saks -- we hosted hundreds last year, so you can trust us to make yours memorable.''
 Some ads include tips tailored for local markets. An ad in Birmingham, Ala., says, ''Think about ... insisting on something no one else owns -- more than 100 designers are exclusive to Saks in the Birmingham area.''
 The campaign is scheduled to run through Father's Day, after which, Mr. Schaefer said, ''something utterly amazing'' is planned.
 Or as Ms. Vreeland might have put it, ''Why don't you ... whet the appetite for your store's next campaign with a fabulous promise?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Saks Fifth Avenue's new campaign is meant to ''make light of things, not be so ponderous and heavy,'' as one executive put it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); RETAILERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); EMAIL MARKETING (67%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (67%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (67%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (67%)

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (81%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (56%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (81%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (81%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (81%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010



598 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Global Crisis Leads I.M.F. Experts to Rethink Long-Held Ideas

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund has long preached the virtues of keeping inflation low and allowing money to flow freely across international boundaries. But two recent research papers by economists at the fund have questioned the soundness of that advice, arguing that slightly higher inflation and restrictions on capital flows can sometimes help buffer countries from financial turmoil. 
 One paper has received particular attention for suggesting that central banks should set their target inflation rate much higher -- at 4 percent, rather than the 2 percent that is the most widely held standard. As aggregate demand fell across the world in 2008, central banks, including the Federal Reserve, lowered short-term interest rates to nearly zero, where they have largely remained. 
 While the two papers do not represent a formal shift in the fund's positions, they suggest that the I.M.F. is re-examining some of its long-established orthodoxies as part of its response to the global economic crisis that began in 2007. 
 The significant drop in the volatility of output and inflation since the mid-1980s -- a period known as the Great Moderation -- helped lull ''macroeconomists and policy makers alike in the belief that we knew how to conduct macroeconomic policy,'' the fund's chief economist, Olivier Blanchard, wrote in one of the papers. ''The crisis clearly forces us to question that assessment.''
 That paper examines how, in hindsight, higher rates would have helped in the current crisis.
 ''Higher average inflation, and thus higher nominal interest rates to start with, would have made it possible to cut interest rates more, thereby probably reducing the drop in output and the deterioration of fiscal positions,'' Mr. Blanchard and two other authors wrote in the paper, released Feb. 12.
 The other paper, released Friday, said that in the aftermath of the crisis, officials were ''reconsidering the view that unfettered capital flows are a fundamentally benign phenomenon.''
 ''Concerns that foreign investors may be subject to herd behavior, and suffer from excessive optimism, have grown stronger; and even when flows are fundamentally sound, it is recognized that they may contribute to collateral damage, including bubbles and asset booms and busts,'' the fund's deputy director of research, Jonathan D. Ostry, wrote, along with five other authors.
 Both papers contained important caveats. 
 Mr. Blanchard's said that fiscal policy -- like decisions to tax, spend and borrow -- had been as important in responding to the crisis as monetary policy, or control of the supply of credit. It argued that governments that had relatively lower debts to begin with had more flexibility to respond to the crisis. 
 And it asserted that regulatory measures -- like requiring higher capital and liquidity ratios, lower loan-to-value ratios for home mortgages, and increased margin requirements for stock purchases -- would be more effective than higher inflation targets in curbing excessive risk-taking. 
 Similarly, Mr. Ostry's report said capital controls would be effective only if the flows ''are likely to be transitory'' and the economy is already operating near potential, with reserves at an adequate level and an exchange rate that is not undervalued.
 The report also found that ''the jury is still out'' on whether capital controls had worked in practice. Evidence from countries like Chile and Colombia, it said, suggests that controls have been more effective at curbing exchange-rate pressures and the risk associated with capital inflows than in reducing the net influx of money. 
 In separate interviews, three former I.M.F. chief economists said the recommendations were significant but raised questions about the feasibility of carrying them out in today's situation.
 Raghuram G. Rajan, of the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago, said the I.M.F.'s suggestion for allowing higher inflation might not be well received. ''With bond markets worried that governments may inflate their way out of their debt obligations, this is probably not a good time for central banks to start debating their inflation targets,'' he said. 
 Mr. Rajan said he was concerned that the nuances regarding capital controls would be overlooked. ''The pressure within emerging markets to set up capital controls, with many countries not meeting the careful conditions laid out by the fund's paper, will increase,'' he predicted.
 Kenneth S. Rogoff of Harvard noted that he had urged that the Fed and the European Central Bank consider slightly higher inflation targets after the 2001 recession in the United States. But he added, ''Having spent the past two decades convincing the public that 2 percent inflation was magical, it might be both difficult and confusing for central banks to suddenly announce they have changed their minds.'' 
 He said Mr. Ostry's report was only the latest step in the fund's reassessment of its ''dogma on capital controls'' that began with the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. ''Today, it is patently obvious that the U.S. and Europe's near-zero-policy interest rates are fueling a surge of international capital into Asia and Latin America that will end in tears if not properly managed.'' 
 Simon Johnson, of the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T., said it would be ''a very hard sell'' to persuade central banks to raise their inflation targets ''just because the financial sector is badly run and hard to reform.'' 
 But he praised the emphasis on regulation. ''The I.M.F. is trying to redefine what is and what is not responsible financial policy after the crisis,'' he said. ''They are commendably aware of the need for greater regulation and the ways to synchronize that around the world.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Olivier Blanchard wrote that many experts might have to reassess the ways they conduct macroeconomic policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RANK/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); WRITERS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); HERD BEHAVIOR (67%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010



599 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Report Seeks Sole Agency To Rebuild War Zones

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Baghdad.

 BODY:
The government agency responsible for monitoring American reconstruction work in Iraq has proposed the creation of a single organization to oversee future rebuilding to avoid the fraud and waste that have marred this work in the past.
 The report, released Monday by the Office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, said an organization with sole authority for reconstruction would eliminate much of the confusion and interagency rivalries that have hampered rebuilding in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 The $53 billion reconstruction effort in Iraq is the largest such effort by the United States since the Marshall Plan, though many Iraqis complain that the spending has made little difference in a country where electricity, clean water, health care and housing remain insufficient. 
 The proposed organization, the United States Office for Contingency Operations, would oversee every aspect of rebuilding, including contracting and budgeting, according to the plan outlined in the report. The agency would be established by Congress, but would be independent. 
 By contrast, rebuilding efforts since the United States-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 have involved some 62 different agencies, including the Defense Department, the State Department, and the Agency for International Development, according to the special inspector general. 
 Reconstruction there has often been carried out with little coordination among agencies, and ''significant interagency breakdowns led to the waste of countless taxpayer dollars,'' the report said. Earlier investigations and audits by the inspector general's office concluded that the amount wasted reaches into the hundreds of millions of dollars.
 Many projects completed by the American government have already been abandoned by Iraq as unnecessary or too expensive to maintain.
 ''The United States did not have the financial, personnel, information technology or contracting systems in place necessary to execute what became the most extensive and most expensive stabilization and reconstruction operation in history,'' the report said. ''It is therefore not surprising that the Iraq program failed to achieve its goals.''
 The special inspector general's plan has been met coolly by the Departments of Defense and State, which would cede much of their control over reconstruction projects in Iraq and Afghanistan as part of the reorganization. 
 In a written response to the special inspector general, Michele A. Flournoy, under secretary of defense, said winning legislative approval for the organization was doubtful because the group would require its own federal funding.
 ''Congressional support for creating a new agency such as U.S. Office for Contingency Operations, as proposed in the paper, in today's fiscally constrained environment seems unlikely,'' she wrote. ''A key solution would be to fix and resource existing institutions rather than to create a new one.''
 The State Department said in its response that efforts to disentangle the funds that would be overseen by a new agency would be regarded as ''arbitrary.''
 Reconstruction and stability funds ''should not be separated from our diplomatic, development and defense activities,'' wrote Jacob Lew, deputy secretary of state.
 In Iraq, two American soldiers were killed when a helicopter crashed Sunday at a base in northern Iraq, in what appeared to be an accident, the American military said in a statement. 
 ''There were no enemy forces present, and no hostile fire was reported,'' the statement said, without elaborating on the details of the crash, except to say that those involved were part of the Army's Third Infantry Division. 
 The accident was the deadliest so far this year for the American military. Until now only six Americans had died in Iraq this year, and only two of those from hostilities.
 A series of homemade bombs also struck high-power electrical transmission towers near Khanaqin, in Diyala Province, killing at least four Iraqi security guards and wounding four others. 
 The bombs appeared to be part of a coordinated attack. Two bombs destroyed two towers, and a third exploded when the guards arrived to investigate, according to local authorities in the region, which lies along a disputed border between Arabs and Kurds.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); APPROVALS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (57%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010



600 of 777 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Blending Tea and Hearts

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
MAJOR PETTIGREW'S LAST STAND 
 By Helen Simonson 
 358 pages. Random House. $25. 
 On the first page of the first chapter of her first novel, ''Major Pettigrew's Last Stand,'' Helen Simonson invites her readers to experience love at first sight. A starchy retired British Army officer named Maj. Ernest Pettigrew has just learned of his brother Bertie's death. Distracted by grief, he happens to be wearing a red, flowery housecoat when he answers a ring at his front door. He opens the door and casts a tearful eye on the dignified, elegant, foreign-looking woman who will win his heart.
 Major Pettigrew dimly knows this woman as Mrs. Ali. She has been blending tea specially for him at the local convenience store. Since these two are not strangers, they cannot be experiencing love at first sight, even if discreet sparks fly between them. It's the reader who is apt to be susceptible: read this one page, and you may find you've fallen head over heels for Ms. Simonson's funny, barbed, delightfully winsome storytelling. Don't say you weren't warned. 
 That ''Major Pettigrew's Last Stand'' opens at a moment of heartbreak has no sobering effect whatsoever. Grief is what it took to make the rigidly correct Major notice Mrs. Ali, or anything else around him. This 68-year-old widower, a man who has taken some of his greatest satisfaction in reading and rereading his will and is proud to grow a type of clematis vine that his neighbors think is worth stealing, has long been immune to human companionship. He has preferred a style of such extreme correctness and gimlet-eyed detachment that all it takes to give this book its comic perspective is to present his point of view.
 Set in the kind of tidy, bigoted backwater where Mrs. Ali is understood to be either Indian or Pakistani even though she has never been further abroad than the Isle of Wight, ''Major Pettigrew's Last Stand'' sounds British to the bone. It isn't: Ms. Simonson was born in East Sussex but has spent two decades in the United States, a stint that has only heightened her ability to make jokes about American excesses as they are registered by Major Pettigrew. The book has a couple of broadly vulgar American characters, and they turn up in the Major's village in what he regards as disturbingly rapid succession. For him ''two Americans in as many weeks,'' Ms. Simonson writes, was something ''approaching a nasty epidemic.'' 
 As the story hums along, it contrasts change for the better with change for the worse. In the first category there is the Major's extremely correct yet warm friendship with Mrs. Ali, who is 10 years his junior, is also conveniently widowed and shares many of the Major's tastes, including a love of reading. He is duly impressed to find her carrying plastic-covered library books. He's even happier when he learns that she shares his love of Kipling. In the second category is Roger, the Major's hilariously obnoxious son, a striver who lives in London and once suggested that the Major get rid of books to make room for an enormous television, so that he ''would have something to do in the evenings.'' 
 Roger also once gave his father the Christmas gift of a sweater so chic it had to be obtained from an Italian designer's waiting list. ''The Major, who had bought Roger a waxed-cotton rain hat from Liberty and a rather smart leather edition of Sir Edmund Hillary's account of Everest, thanked Roger graciously for the wonderful thought,'' the book says, offering up a particularly good example of father-son culture clash. Now Roger has started spending weekends in a country cottage in Little Puddleton with a brash American girlfriend (''Good heavens, is it Christmas in Hades?'' the Major asks, upon seeing the black brush-shaped fake tree that constitutes their idea of clever holiday decor) and has pretentious tastes in everything, including cuisine. ''Is your jacket smoldering,'' the Major asks Roger, ''or are you just cooking something made of tweed?'' 
 There are many such screwball ingredients to keep ''Major Pettigrew's Last Stand'' ever-bustling and tirelessly bright. Among them: the threadbare local aristocrat whose love of shooting and need for income collide. (He has allowed part of his property to be used as a boys' school, not grasping that little boys don't like to see pet ducks fall out of the sky.) There is the rest of Mrs. Ali's family, which turns out to be as small-minded and unhelpful as the Major's. There is the valuable pair of guns that were divided between the Pettigrew brothers and were supposed to have been reunited once a brother died; scheming over the guns' ownership becomes a major plot element. Looming largest is the local golf club's plan to put on a costume party, in keeping with its tradition. In previous years the club has tackled party themes like ''Last Days of Pompeii.'' 
 The Major is a man of classical tastes. (He worked as a schoolteacher but chose to retire ''the same year that the school allowed movies to be listed in the bibliographies of literary essays.'') So his preference in party style is for black tie and Champagne, though he has to explain to the book's cliched, birdbrained club wives that this is not meant as an hommage to Noel Coward. ''I'm tired of wearing my dinner suit and having people ask me what I'm supposed to be,'' he complains.
 Inevitably, the party idea hatched during ''Major Pettigrew's Last Stand'' leads to disaster. Consider that Mrs. Ali has Pakistani relatives, that the guns were given to the Major's father by a grateful maharajah, that the locals tend to conflate all non-English countries that were ever part of the British Empire, and you glimpse the party's potential to create misunderstanding. The narrative, which is enjoyable even when it tootles along with mechanical efficiency, follows a three-act structure and detonates the party scene at the end of Act II. 
 Ms. Simonson has been so trained (perhaps overtrained) by American writing groups and programs (she has an M.F.A, as well as a career in travel advertising and a degree from the London School of Economics) that she leaves these manipulations proudly visible. As with the polished work of Alexander McCall Smith, there is never a dull moment but never a discordant note either. Still, this book feels fresh despite its conventional blueprint. Its main characters are especially well drawn, and Ms. Simonson makes them as admirable as they are entertaining. They are traditionally built, and that's not just Mr. McCall Smith's euphemism. It's about intelligence, heart, dignity and backbone. ''Major Pettigrew's Last Stand'' has them all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Helen Simonson (PHOTOGRAPH BY NINA SUBIN) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); ARMIES (72%); CONVENIENCE STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); INDIA (78%)

TITLE: Major Pettigrew's Last Stand (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010

 
